ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Citizens Financial Group, Inc. (“Citizens” or the “Company”) is the 13thlargest retail bank holding company in the United States with our headquarters in Providence, Rhode Island.(1)We deliver a comprehensive range of retail and commercial banking products and services to more than five million individuals, institutions and companies largely through approximately 1,150 branches operating in an11-state banking footprint across the New England, Mid-Atlantic and Midwest regions and nationwide for select products through our online, telephone and mobile banking platforms. We also maintain more than 130 retail and commercial non-branch offices located in our branch banking footprint and in other states and the District of Columbia, which are largely contiguous with our footprint and we have developed product financing and other partnerships which serve customers nationwide. At December 31, 2017, the Company had total assets of $152.3 billion, total deposits of $115.1 billion and total stockholders’ equity of $20.3 billion.

Community involvement is one of our principal values and we strive to contribute to a better quality of life by serving the communities across our footprint through employee volunteer efforts, a foundation that funds a range of non-profit organizations and executives who provide board leadership to community organizations. These efforts contribute to a culture that seeks to promote positive employee morale and provide differentiated brand awareness in the community relative to peer banks, while also making a positive difference within the communities we serve. Employees gave more than 114,000 volunteer hours in 2017 and also served on nearly 600 community boards and committees across our footprint. We believe our strong commitment to our communities provides a competitive advantage by strengthening our customer relationships and increasing loyalty.

Citizens is a bank holding company which was incorporated under Delaware state law in 1984 whose primary federal regulator is the FRB. Our primary subsidiaries are CBNA, a national banking association whose primary federal regulator is the OCC, and CBPA, a Pennsylvania-chartered savings bank regulated by the Department of Banking of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and supervised by the FDIC as its primary federal regulator.

Our history dates to High Street Bank, founded in 1828, which established Citizens Savings Bank in 1871. In 1988 we became a wholly-owned subsidiary of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc (“RBS”). Late in 2013, Citizens embarked on a series of initiatives to separate from RBS and improve the financial performance and capabilities of the Company with the objective of becoming a top-performing regional bank. In September 2014, Citizens (NYSE: CFG) became a publicly traded company in the largest traditional bank IPO in U.S. history and, through a series of follow-on offerings in March, July and November of 2015, fully separated from RBS.

Business Segments

Citizens’ activities are organized, for management reporting purposes, into two reportable business operating segments — Consumer Banking and Commercial Banking. The consolidated Company also includes activities outside the two business operating segments as “Other” which includes our treasury activities, wholesale funding activities, securities portfolio, community development assets and other unallocated assets, liabilities, capital, revenues, provision for credit losses and expenses, including income tax expense, not attributed to the Consumer Banking or Commercial Banking segments and the financial impact of non-core, liquidating loan portfolios and other non-core assets and liabilities. For a description of non-core assets, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Analysis of Financial Condition — Loans and Leases — Non-Core Assets” in Part II, Item 7, included in this report. For additional information regarding our business segments see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Results of Operations — 2017 compared with 2016 — Business Operating Segments” in Part II, Item 7 and Note 25 “Business Operating Segments”to our audited Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 — Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, included in this report.













(1)According to SNL Financial, as of September 30, 2017.






CITIZENS FINANCIAL GROUP, INC.BUSINESS



The following table presents selected financial information for our business operating segments, Other and consolidated:For the Year Ended December 31,20172016(in millions)Consumer BankingCommercial BankingOtherConsolidatedConsumer BankingCommercial BankingOtherConsolidatedNet interest income$2,651$1,411$111$4,173$2,443$1,288$27$3,758Noninterest income905538911,5348834661481,497Total revenue3,5561,9492025,7073,3261,7541755,255Noninterest expense2,5937721093,4742,547741643,352Net income$452$774$426$1,652$345$631$69$1,045Total average loans and leases and loans held for sale$58,371$48,655$2,946$109,972$55,052$45,903$2,999$103,954Total average deposits$74,873$30,005$6,996$111,874$72,003$26,811$6,633$105,447

Consumer Banking Segment

Consumer Banking serves retail customers and small businesses with annual revenues of up to $25 million  with products and services that include deposit products, mortgage and home equity lending, credit cards, business loans, wealth management and investment services. We also offer our customers auto financing, education lending and unsecured and product financing installment lending products and serve those customers both in-footprint and nationally through our online platform and telephone service centers.

Consumer Banking operates a multi-channel distribution network with a workforce of approximately 6,700branch colleagues, approximately 1,150 branches, including about 330 in-store locations, and approximately 3,300 ATMs. Our network includes approximately 1,330 specialists covering lending needs, savings and investments and business banking. Our online and mobile capabilities offer customers the convenience of paying bills and transferring money between accounts and from person to person, as well as a host of other everyday transactions.

We believe our strong retail deposit market share in our core regions, which have relatively diverse economies and affluent demographics, is a competitive advantage. As of June 30, 2017, we ranked second by retail deposit market share in the New England region and also ranked in the top five in nine of our ten key MSAs, including Providence, Boston, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia and Cleveland.(1)

The following table sets forth information regarding our competitive position in our principal MSAs:

(dollars in millions)TotalTotalDepositMSATotal BranchesDepositsDeposit RankMarket ShareBoston, MA203$35,939216.1%Philadelphia, PA179$17,54854.8%Providence, RI96$12,264130.2%Pittsburgh, PA120$9,48337.3%Cleveland, OH52$9,018413.5%Detroit, MI88$5,33584.1%Manchester, NH21$4,390138.6%Albany, NY23$3,357211.4%Buffalo, NY41$1,83654.5%Rochester, NY32$1,63858.7%

Source: FDIC, June 2017. Excludes “non-retail banks” as defined by SNL Financial. The scope of “non-retail banks” is subject to the discretion of SNL Financial, but typically includes: industrial bank and non-depository trust charters, institutions with more than 20% brokered deposits (of total deposits), institutions with more than 20% credit card loans (of total loans), institutions deemed not to broadly participate in the banking services market and other nonretail competitor banks.





(1)According to SNL Financial.






CITIZENS FINANCIAL GROUP, INC.BUSINESS



Commercial Banking Segment

Commercial Banking primarily serves companies and institutions with annual revenues of $25 million to $2.5 billion and strives to be the lead bank for our clients. We offer a broad complement of financial products and solutions, including lending and leasing, deposit and treasury management services, foreign exchange and interest rate risk management solutions, as well as corporate finance, merger and acquisition, and debt and equity capital markets capabilities.

Commercial Banking is structured along lines of business, as well as product groups. The Corporate Finance & Global Markets and the Treasury Solutions product groups support all lines of business. These business lines and product groups work in teams to understand and determine client needs and provide comprehensive solutions to meet those needs. We strive to acquire new clients through a coordinated approach to the market leveraging deep industry knowledge in specialized banking groups and a geographic coverage model generally.

Our Corporate Banking business line services Middle Market domestic commercial and industrial clients, companies with annual gross revenues of $25 million to $500 million and Mid-corporate companies with annual revenues of $500 million to $2.5 billion. Our Middle Market business is focused primarily on our 11-state footprint. In our Mid-corporate and Industry Verticals businesses, our focus is national within our areas of expertise. Corporate Banking offers a broad range of products, including secured and unsecured lines of credit, term loans, commercial mortgages, domestic and global treasury management solutions, trade services, interest rate products, foreign exchange services and letters of credit. Corporate Banking is a general lending business, however our specialty Industry Verticals business addresses other corporate banking services for U.S. subsidiaries of foreign corporations, technology, government entities, healthcare, oil and gas, not-for-profit and educational institutions, professional firms and franchise finance.

Our Commercial Real Estatebusiness line provides customized debt capital solutions for Middle Market operators, institutional developers and investors as well as REITs. Commercial Real Estate provides financing for projects in the office, multi-family, industrial, retail, healthcare and hospitality sectors.

Corporate Finance & Global Markets serves clients through key product groups including Corporate Finance, Capital Markets, and Global Markets. Corporate Finance provides advisory services to Middle Market and Mid-corporate companies, including mergers and acquisitions and capital structure advice. The team works closely with industry-sector specialists within debt capital markets to advise our clients. Our Corporate Finance business provides acquisition and follow-on financing for new and recapitalized portfolio companies of key sponsors; services meeting the unique and time-sensitive needs of private equity firms, management companies and funds; and underwriting and portfolio management expertise for leveraged transactions and relationships. Capital Markets originates, structures and underwrites multi-bank syndicated credit facilities targeting Middle Market, Mid-corporate and private equity sponsors with a focus on offering value-added ideas to optimize their capital structures. Citizens Capital Markets, Inc. (“CCMI”), our commercial broker-dealer, advises on or facilitates mergers and acquisitions, valuations, tender offers, financial restructurings, asset sales, divestitures or other corporate reorganizations or business combinations. Global Markets is a customer-facing business providing foreign exchange and interest rate risk management services.

The Treasury Solutionsproduct groupsupports Commercial Banking and Business Banking clients with treasury management solutions, including domestic and international products and services related to receivables, payables, information reporting and liquidity management as well as commercial credit cards and trade finance.

Our Asset Finance business line offers equipment financing term loans and leases for Middle Market and Mid-corporate companies, as well as Fortune 500 companies.






CITIZENS FINANCIAL GROUP, INC.BUSINESS



Business Strategy

Our mission is to help each of our customers, colleagues and communities reach their potential, and our vision is to be a top-performing bank distinguished by its customer-centric culture, mindset of continuous improvement and excellent capabilities. It is embedded in our culture to make sure we understand our customers’ needs so we can tailor advice and solutions to make our customers more successful. Our business strategy is designed to maximize the full potential of our business and drive sustainable growth and enhanced profitability, and our success rests on our ability to distinguish the bank as follows:

Maintain a high-performing, customer-centric organization:To accomplish this, we are embedding a “customer-first” culture among our managers and colleagues to deliver the best possible banking experience for our customers. For our colleagues, we plan to drive talent management to the next level, with a focus on attracting, developing and retaining great people with a goal of ensuring strong leadership, teamwork and a sense of accountability and urgency.

Develop differentiated value propositions to acquire, deepen, and retain core customer segments:We have focused on certain customer segments where we believe we are well positioned to compete. In Consumer Banking we focus on Mass Market and Mass Affluent customers; in Commercial Banking, we focus on customers in the Middle Market, Mid-corporate, and certain Industry Vertical areas. By developing differentiated and targeted value propositions, we believe we can attract new customers, deepen relationships with existing customers, and deliver an enhanced customer experience.

Build excellent capabilities that will allow us to stand out from our competitors:Across our businesses we strive to deliver seamless, multi-channel experiences and allow customers to interact with us when, where and how they want. We are building out enhanced data analytics capabilities to provide timely, insight-driven and tailored advice and continue to add new capabilities that help deliver solutions for our consumer and business customers throughout their lifecycles. We are also focused on expanding our digital capabilities and related strategies in order to satisfy rapidly changing customer preferences.

Operate with financial discipline and a mindset of continuous improvement to self-fund investments:We believe that continued focus on operational efficiency is critical to our profitability and the ability to continue to reinvest to drive future growth. We launched the first Tapping our Potential (“TOP”) initiative in late 2014 which was designed to improve the effectiveness, efficiency, and competitiveness of the franchise, and we commenced the fourth phase of this initiative in mid-2017.

Prudently grow and optimize our balance sheet:We operate with a strong balance sheet with regard to capital, liquidity and funding, coupled with a well-defined and prudent risk appetite. We are prudently growing our balance sheet and we strive to deliver attractive risk-adjusted returns by making good capital and resource allocation decisions through our balance sheet optimization initiatives, being good stewards of our resources, and rigorously evaluating our execution.

Modernize our technology and operational models to improve delivery, agility and speed to market:We are continuing to modernize our technology environment so that we can accelerate our speed-to-market and take advantage of technology opportunities in the marketplace. We are also investing in new technologies and leveraging those technologies to deliver better customer outcomes efficiently in order to deliver on our overall financial objectives. We have also engaged in FinTech partnerships that help deliver differentiated digital experiences for our customers.

Embed risk management within our culture and our operations:We are continuing to strengthen our risk management culture and processes as the quality of our risk management program directly affects our ability to execute our strategy, deliver value to our stakeholders and become a top-performing bank. Moreover, our continuous and disciplined enhancements to our processes and talent, as well as our ongoing investments in risk technology and frameworks, serve to support and bolster our risk management capabilities and our regulatory profile.

Competition

The financial services industry is highly competitive. Our branch footprint is in the New England, Mid-Atlantic and Midwest regions, though certain lines of business serve broader, national markets. Within those markets we face competition from community banks, super-regional and national financial institutions, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds, hedge funds and private equity firms. Some of our larger competitors may make available to their customers a broader array of product, pricing and structure alternatives while some smaller competitors may have more liberal lending policies and processes. Competition among providers of financial products






CITIZENS FINANCIAL GROUP, INC.BUSINESS



and services continues to increase, with consumers having the opportunity to select from a growing variety of traditional and nontraditional alternatives. The ability of non-banking financial institutions, including FinTech companies, to provide services previously limited to commercial banks has also intensified competition.

In Consumer Banking, the industry has become increasingly dependent on and oriented toward technology-driven delivery systems, permitting transactions to be conducted through telephone, online and mobile channels. In addition, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-bank institutions to attract funds and provide lending and other financial services in our footprint, despite not having a physical presence within our footprint. Given their lower cost structure, these institutions are often able to offer higher rates on deposit products than what may be average for the market for retail banking institutions with a traditional branch footprint, such as us. The primary factors driving competition for loans and deposits are interest rates, fees charged, customer service levels, convenience, including branch location and hours of operation, and the range of products and services offered.

In Commercial Banking, there is intense competition for quality loan originations from traditional banking institutions, particularly large regional banks, as well as commercial finance companies, leasing companies and other non-bank lenders, and institutional investors including CLO managers, hedge funds and private equity firms. Some larger competitors, including certain national banks that compete in our market area, may offer a broader array of products and, due to their asset size, may sometimes be in a position to hold more exposure on their own balance sheet. We compete on a number of factors including, among others, providing innovative corporate finance solutions, quality of customer service and execution, range of products offered, price and reputation.

Regulation and Supervision

Our operations are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination under federal and state laws. These laws and regulations cover all aspects of our business, including lending practices, safeguarding deposits, customer privacy and information security, capital structure, liquidity transactions with affiliates and conduct and qualifications of personnel. These laws and regulations are intended primarily for the protection of depositors, the Deposit Insurance Fund and the banking system as a whole and not for the protection of shareholders or other investors. The discussion below outlines the material elements of selected laws and regulations applicable to us and our subsidiaries. Changes in applicable law or regulation, and in their interpretation and application by regulatory agencies and other governmental authorities, cannot be predicted, but may have a material effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

We and our subsidiaries and affiliates are subject to numerous examinations by federal and state banking regulators, as well as the SEC, FINRA and various state insurance and securities regulators. In some cases, regulatory agencies may take supervisory actions that may not be publicly disclosed, and such actions may restrict or limit our activities or activities of our subsidiaries. As part of our regular examination process, our and our banking subsidiaries’ respective regulators may advise us or our banking subsidiaries to operate under various restrictions as a prudential matter. We and our subsidiaries have periodically received requests for information from regulatory authorities at the federal and state level, including from state insurance commissions, state attorneys general, federal agencies or law enforcement authorities, securities regulators and other regulatory authorities, concerning their business practices. Such requests are considered incidental to the normal conduct of business. For a further discussion of how regulatory actions may impact our business, see “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item IA, included in this report.

Overview

We are a bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (“Bank Holding Company Act”). While some banks have surrendered their bank holding company status, we have elected to be treated as a financial holding company under amendments to the Bank Holding Company Act as effected by Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (“GLBA”). As such, we are subject to the supervision, examination and reporting requirements of the Bank Holding Company Act and the regulations of the FRB, including through the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston. Under the system of “functional regulation” established under the Bank Holding Company Act, the FRB serves as the primary regulator of our consolidated organization, and the primary regulator of our broker-dealer subsidiary, the SEC, directly regulates the activities of that subsidiary, with the FRB exercising a supervisory role. The Dodd-Frank Act amendments to the Bank Holding Company Act require the FRB to examine the activities of non-depository institution subsidiaries of bank holding companies (that are not functionally regulated) that are engaged in depository institution-permissible activities and provide the FRB with back-up examination and enforcement authority for such activities. The FRB also has the authority to require reports of and examine any holding company subsidiary.

Our principal bank subsidiary, CBNA, is a national banking association. As such, it is subject to regulation, examination and supervision by the OCC as its primary federal regulator and by the FDIC as the insurer of its deposits.






CITIZENS FINANCIAL GROUP, INC.BUSINESS



CBPA is a Pennsylvania-chartered savings bank. Accordingly, it is subject to supervision by the Department of Banking of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania (the “PA Banking Department”) as its chartering agency, and regulation, supervision and examination by the FDIC as the primary federal regulator of state-chartered savings banks and as the insurer of CBPA’s deposits.

The federal and state banking regulators have authority to approve or disapprove mergers, acquisitions, consolidations, the establishment of branches and similar corporate actions. These banking regulators also have the power to prevent the continuance or development of unsafe or unsound banking practices or other violations of law. State and federal law govern the activities in which CBNA and CBPA engage, including the investments each makes and the aggregate amount of loans that they may grant to one borrower. Various consumer and compliance laws and regulations also affect their operations. The actions the FRB takes to implement monetary policy also affect CBNA and CBPA.

In addition, CBNA and CBPA are subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the CFPB with respect to consumer protection laws and regulations. The CFPB has broad authority to, among other things, regulate the offering and provision of consumer financial products by depository institutions, like CBNA and CBPA, with more than $10 billion in total assets. The CFPB may promulgate rules under a variety of consumer financial protection statutes, including the Truth in Lending Act, the Electronic Funds Transfer Act and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act.

Financial Regulatory Reform

The Dodd-Frank Act represents a significant overhaul of many aspects of the regulation of the financial services industry, addressing, among other things, systemic risk, capital adequacy, deposit insurance assessments, consumer financial protection, regulation of derivatives and securities markets, restrictions on an insured bank’s transactions with its affiliates, lending limits and mortgage-lending practices. Moreover, as a general matter, in recent years, the federal banking regulators (the FRB, the OCC and the FDIC) as well as the CFPB have taken a more stringent approach to supervising and regulating the financial institutions and financial products and services over which the regulators exercise their respective supervisory authorities, including with respect to enforcement matters. Our two banking subsidiaries and our products and services have been subject to greater supervisory scrutiny and enhanced supervisory requirements and expectations in recent years, and we expect this scrutiny to continue for the foreseeable future.

Sections 165 and 166 of the Dodd-Frank Act direct the FRB to establish enhanced prudential standards and early remediation requirements applicable to systemically important financial institutions (“SIFIs”), bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more. The FRB has adopted final rules implementing three aspects of Sections 165 and 166-liquidity requirements, stress testing of capital, and overall risk management requirements. The final rules’ liquidity requirements are described below under “—Liquidity Standards” and their stress testing requirements are described below under “—Capital Planning and Stress Testing Requirements”.

Under Section 165 of the Dodd-Frank Act and the implementing rule of the FRB and FDIC, a bank holding company with total consolidated assets of $50 billion, such as us, must submit a periodic resolution plan to the FRB and FDIC providing for the company’s strategy for rapid and orderly resolution in the event of its material financial distress or failure. The FDIC has also issued a separate resolution planning rule applicable to insured depository institutions of $50 billion or more in total assets, such as CBNA. We submitted our most recent resolution plan to the FRB and FDIC in December 2016; CBNA submitted its most recent resolution plan to the FDIC in December 2015. If the FRB and the FDIC jointly determine that our plan is not credible or would not facilitate an orderly resolution under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code and we do not cure the deficiencies, the FRB and the FDIC may jointly impose more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements or restrictions on our growth, activities or operations.

The FRB has not yet adopted final rules implementing two key requirements of Section 165 and 166-single counterparty credit limits (“SCCL”) and early remediation requirements. In March 2016, the FRB issued a re-proposal of its SCCL rules, initially published for comment in 2014. As re-proposed, we and our controlled entities would be prohibited from having an aggregate net credit exposure to any counterparty (as broadly defined in the proposed rule to include certain related entities to the entity that is the direct obligor) exceeding 25% of our tier 1 capital. The SCCL rules, when finalized, may affect our ability to enter into transactions, including as hedges for other exposures, with other financial institutions.

The U.S. Basel III rules, summarized briefly below, have impacted our level of capital, and may influence the types of business we may pursue and how we pursue business opportunities. Among other things, the U.S. Basel III rules raised the required minimums for certain capital ratios, added a common equity ratio, included capital






CITIZENS FINANCIAL GROUP, INC.BUSINESS



buffers, and restricted what constitutes capital. The capital and risk weighting requirements became effective for us on January 1, 2015.

In November 2017, a bipartisan group of Senators introduced a bill to further reform the regulation of financial institutions. Most significantly for us, this bill would substantially increase the asset threshold for automatic regulation of bank holding companies as SIFIs from $50 billion to $250 billion. If enacted, this bill would allow us to no longer be considered a SIFI and would therefore exempt us from the enhanced prudential standards applicable to SIFIs. The bill would also exempt bank holding companies with less than $250 billion in total consolidated assets, such as us, from the Dodd-Frank Act requirement to conduct company-run stress tests and would revise supervisory stress testing for bank holding companies with between $100 and $250 billion in total consolidated assets by requiring that the FRB conduct periodic, instead of annual, stress tests of those bank holding companies in order to evaluate whether those bank holding companies have consolidated capital necessary to absorb losses as a result of adverse economic conditions.

Many of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and other laws are subject to further rulemaking, guidance and interpretation by the applicable federal regulators. We will continue to evaluate the impact of any changes in law and any new regulations promulgated, including changes in regulatory costs and fees, modifications to consumer products or disclosures required by the CFPB and the requirements of the enhanced supervision provisions, among others.

Financial Holding Company Regulation

The Bank Holding Company Act generally restricts bank holding companies from engaging in business activities other than (i) banking, managing or controlling banks, (ii) furnishing services to or performing services for subsidiaries and (iii) activities that the FRB has determined to be so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident thereto. For so long as they continue to meet the eligibility requirements for financial holding company status, financial holding companies may engage in a broader range of activities, including, among other things, securities underwriting and dealing, insurance underwriting and brokerage, merchant banking and other activities that are determined by the FRB, in coordination with the Treasury Department, to be “financial in nature or incidental thereto” or that the FRB determines unilaterally to be “complementary” to financial activities. In addition, a financial holding company may conduct permissible new financial activities or acquire permissible non-bank financial companies with after-the-fact notice to the FRB.

Capital

We must comply with the FRB’s capital adequacy rules. CBNA and CBPA must comply with similar capital adequacy rules of the OCC and FDIC, respectively. The capital adequacy rules of all three agencies are based on the Basel III framework. For more detail on our regulatory capital, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Capital and Regulatory Matters” in Part II, Item 7, included in this report.

The U.S. Basel III rules, among other things, (i) impose a capital measure called common equity tier 1 capital, or “CET1 capital”, (ii) specify that tier 1 capital consists of CET1 capital and “additional tier 1 capital” instruments






CITIZENS FINANCIAL GROUP, INC.BUSINESS



meeting certain revised requirements, (iii) define CET1 capital narrowly by requiring that most deductions/adjustments to regulatory capital measures be made to CET1 and not to the other components of capital, and (iv) expand the scope of the deductions/adjustments to capital as compared to previous regulations. As noted below, implementation of certain elements of the U.S. Basel III rules continues to be phased-in.

Under the U.S. Basel III rules, the minimum capital ratios are:

•4.5% CET1 capital to risk-weighted assets;

•6.0% tier 1 capital (that is, CET1 capital plus additional tier 1 capital) to risk-weighted assets;

•8.0% total capital (that is, tier 1 capital plus tier 2 capital) to risk-weighted assets; and

•4.0% tier 1 capital to total average consolidated assets as defined under U.S. Basel III Standardized approach (known as the “leverage ratio”).

The U.S. Basel III rules also impose a capital conservation buffer (“CCB”) on top of the three minimum risk-weighted asset ratios listed above. When fully phased-in on January 1, 2019, the CCB will be 2.5%. Banking institutions that fail to meet the effective minimum ratios once the CCB is taken into account (that is, 7.0% for CET1 capital to risk-weighted assets, 8.5% for tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets and 10.5% for total capital to risk-weighted assets, once the CCB is fully phased-in) will be subject to constraints on capital distributions, including dividends and share repurchases, and certain discretionary executive compensation. The severity of the constraints depends on the amount of the shortfall. The implementation of the CCB began on January 1, 2016 at the 0.625% level and increases by 0.625% on each subsequent January 1, until the buffer reaches its fully phased-in level of 2.5% on January 1, 2019. For more details, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Capital and Regulatory Matters” in Part II, Item 7, included in this report.

We are also subject to the FRB's risk-based capital requirements for market risk.  See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Market Risk — Market Risk Regulatory Capital” in Part II, Item 7, included in this report, for further discussion.

The U.S. Basel III rules also provide for a number of deductions from, and adjustments to, CET1 capital. For example, certain deferred tax assets (“DTAs”) and significant investments in non-consolidated financial entities must be deducted from CET1 capital to the extent that any one such category exceeds 10% of CET1 capital or all such items, in the aggregate, exceed 15% of CET1 capital. The deductions and other adjustments to CET1 capital generally became fully phased-in on January 1, 2018, although, as discussed below, the federal banking regulators have extended the transitional treatment for certain items.

In November 2017, the federal banking regulators issued a final rule that extended the 2017 transition provisions for certain U.S. Basel III capital rules for non-advanced approaches banking organizations, such as us.  Effective January 1, 2018, the final rule retains the 2017 U.S. Basel III transitional treatment of certain DTAs, mortgage servicing assets, investments in non-consolidated financial entities and minority interests. As a result, effective January 1, 2018, our mortgage servicing assets will retain their 2017 risk weight treatment until the federal banking regulators revise the extended transitional treatment under the November 2017 final rule, which may occur in connection with the finalization of the related September 2017 proposal to simplify the capital treatment of certain DTAs, mortgage servicing assets, investments in non-consolidated financial entities and minority interests.

The U.S. Basel III rules prescribe a standardized approach for risk weighting many categories of assets. These categories generally range from 0% for U.S. government and agency securities, to 600% for certain equity exposures.

With respect to CBNA and CBPA, the U.S. Basel III rules also revise the “prompt corrective action” regulations pursuant to Section 38 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, as discussed below in “Federal Deposit Insurance Act.”

In December 2017, the Basel Committee published standards that it described as the finalization of the Basel III post-crisis regulatory reforms (the standards are commonly referred to as “Basel IV”). Among other things, these standards revise the Basel Committee’s standardized approach for credit risk (including recalibrating risk weights and introducing new capital requirements for certain “unconditionally cancellable commitments,” such as unused credit card and home equity lines of credit) and provide a new standardized approach for operational risk capital. Under the Basel framework, these standards will generally be effective on January 1, 2022, with an aggregate output floor phasing in through January 1, 2027. Under the current U.S. Basel III rules, operational risk capital requirements and a capital floor apply only to advanced approaches institutions, and not to CFG, CBNA or CBPA. The impact of Basel IV on CFG, CBNA and CBPA will depend on the manner in which it is implemented by the FRB, OCC and FDIC.






CITIZENS FINANCIAL GROUP, INC.BUSINESS



Liquidity Standards

As a modified LCR company, we are required to calculate our LCR on a monthly basis. If a covered company fails to meet the minimum required LCR, it must promptly notify its primary federal banking regulator and may be required to take remedial actions. In December 2016, the FRB issued a final rule that requires bank holding companies to disclose publicly, on a quarterly basis, quantitative and qualitative information about certain components of their LCR. For modified LCR bank holding companies, this disclosure requirement begins with the fourth quarter of 2018.

The Basel III framework also includes a second liquidity standard, the NSFR, which is designed to promote more medium- and long-term funding of the assets and activities of banks over a one-year time horizon. In May 2016, the federal banking regulators issued a proposed rule that would implement the NSFR for large U.S. banking organizations. Under the proposed rule, the most stringent requirements would apply to advanced approaches bank holding companies, and would require such organizations to maintain a minimum NSFR of 1.0 on an ongoing basis, calculated by dividing the organization’s available stable funding (“ASF”) by its required stable funding (“RSF”). Bank holding companies with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets but that are not advanced approaches bank holding companies would be subject to a modified NSFR requirement which would require such bank holding companies to maintain a minimum NSFR of 0.7 on an ongoing basis. Under the proposed rule, a banking organization’s ASF would be calculated by applying specified standard weightings to its equity and liabilities based on their expected stability over a one-year time horizon and its RSF would be calculated by applying specified standardized weightings to its assets, derivative exposures and commitments based on their liquidity characteristics over the same one-year time horizon. We continue to evaluate the potential effects of this proposal on our operations.

Finally, per the liquidity rules included in the FRB’s enhanced prudential standards adopted pursuant to Section 165 of the Dodd-Frank Act (referred to above under “—Financial Regulatory Reform”), we are required to maintain a buffer of highly liquid assets based on projected funding needs for 30 days. The liquidity buffer is in addition to the federal banking regulators’ LCR rule and is described by the FRB as being “complementary” to the LCR.

Capital Planning and Stress Testing Requirements

Bank holding companies with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets are required to develop and maintain a capital plan and to submit the capital plan to the FRB for review under the CCAR process. CCAR is designed to evaluate a bank holding company’s capital adequacy, capital adequacy process and planned capital distributions, such as dividend payments and common stock repurchases. As part of CCAR, the FRB evaluates whether a bank holding company has sufficient capital to continue operations under various hypothetical scenarios of economic and financial market stress. These scenarios include both bank holding company- and FRB- developed scenarios, including an “adverse” and a “severely adverse” stress scenario developed by the FRB. The FRB will also evaluate whether the bank holding company has robust, forward-looking capital planning processes that account for the bank holding company’s unique risks. The financial regulation reform bill mentioned above would not address the applicability of CCAR to bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more; however, if enacted, the Federal Reserve could revise the CCAR process in a manner consistent with the legislation’s modification of the stress testing standards.

The capital plan must cover a “planning horizon” of at least nine quarters (beginning with the quarter preceding the submission of the plan, or January 1, 2018 for the capital plans required to be filed on or before April 5, 2018). Bank holding companies are also subject to an ongoing requirement to revise and resubmit their capital plans upon the occurrence of certain events specified by rule, or when required by the FRB. The FRB determines






CITIZENS FINANCIAL GROUP, INC.BUSINESS



whether to object to a company’s capital plan based on whether the plan passes quantitative tests requiring that the company demonstrate that it will continue to meet all minimum capital requirements applicable to it over the nine-quarter planning horizon under all applicable scenarios. For capital plans in CCAR submissions prior to April 5, 2017, the FRB was also able to object to the capital plan of any bank holding company subject to CCAR based on qualitative tests (such as concerns with the assumptions, analysis or methodologies of the capital plan).

In January 2017, the FRB amended its capital plan rule to eliminate its ability to object to the capital plan of a “large and noncomplex” bank holding company (that is, one that has less than $250 billion in total consolidated assets, less than $75 billion in nonbank assets, and that is not classified as a global systemically important bank holding company under the FRB’s capital rules) on qualitative grounds. However, the FRB will incorporate an assessment of the qualitative aspects of the firm’s capital planning process into regular, ongoing supervisory activities and through targeted, horizontal assessments of particular aspects of capital planning.

In addition to other limitations, our ability to make any capital distributions (including dividends and share repurchases) is contingent on the FRB’s non-objection to our capital plan. Should the FRB object to a capital plan, a bank holding company may not make any capital distribution other than those capital distributions to which the FRB has indicated its non-objection in writing. Participating firms are required to submit their capital plans and stress testing results to the FRB on or before April 5thof each year, and the FRB will publish the results of its supervisory CCAR review of submitted capital plans by June 30thof each year. In addition, the FRB will separately publish the results of its supervisory stress test under both the supervisory severely adverse and adverse scenarios. The information to be released will include, among other things, the FRB’s projection of company-specific information, including post-stress capital ratios and the minimum value of these ratios over the planning horizon.

The FRB’s capital planning and stress testing rules generally limit our ability to make quarterly capital distributions in the form of dividends and share repurchases, if the amount of our actual cumulative quarterly capital issuances of instruments that qualify as regulatory capital are less than we indicated in our submitted capital plan as to which we received a non-objection from the FRB. Due to the importance and intensity of the stress tests and the CCAR process, we have dedicated significant resources to comply with stress testing and capital planning requirements and expect to continue to do so in the future.

Standards for Safety and Soundness

The FDIA requires the FRB, OCC and FDIC to prescribe operational and managerial standards for all insured depository institutions, including CBNA and CBPA. The agencies have adopted regulations and interagency guidelines which set forth the safety and soundness standards used to identify and address problems at insured depository institutions before capital becomes impaired. If an agency determines that a bank fails to satisfy any standard, it may require the bank to submit an acceptable plan to achieve compliance, consistent with deadlines for the submission and review of such safety and soundness compliance plans. If, after being notified to submit a compliance plan, an institution fails to submit an acceptable compliance plan or fails in any material respect to implement an acceptable compliance plan, the agency must issue an order directing action to correct the deficiency and may issue an order directing other actions of the types to which an undercapitalized institution is subject under the FDIA. See “Federal Deposit Insurance Act” below. If an institution fails to comply with such an order, the agency may seek to enforce such order in judicial proceedings and to impose civil money penalties.

CBPA is also subject to supervision by the PA Banking Department. The PA Banking Department may order any Pennsylvania-chartered savings bank to discontinue any violation of law or unsafe or unsound business practice. It may also order the termination of any trustee, officer, attorney or employee of a savings bank engaged in objectionable activity.

Federal Deposit Insurance Act

The FDIA requires, among other things, that the federal banking regulators take “prompt corrective action” with respect to depository institutions that do not meet minimum capital requirements, as described above in “Capital.” The FDIA sets forth the following five capital categories: “well-capitalized,” “adequately capitalized,” “undercapitalized,” “significantly undercapitalized” and “critically undercapitalized.” A depository institution’s capital category depends upon how its capital levels compare with various relevant capital measures and certain other factors that are established by regulation. The federal banking regulators must take certain mandatory supervisory actions, and are authorized to take other discretionary actions, with respect to institutions that are undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized or critically undercapitalized, with the actions becoming more restrictive and punitive the lower the institution’s capital category. Under existing rules, an institution that is not an advanced approaches institution is deemed to be “well capitalized” if it has (i) a CET1 ratio of at least 6.5%, (ii)






CITIZENS FINANCIAL GROUP, INC.BUSINESS



a tier 1 capital ratio of at least 8%, (iii) a total capital ratio of at least 10%, and (iv) a tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 5%.

The FDIA’s prompt corrective action provisions only apply to depository institutions and not to bank holding companies. The FRB’s regulations applicable to bank holding companies separately define “well capitalized” for bank holding companies to require maintaining a tier 1 capital ratio of at least 6% and a total capital ratio of at least 10%. As described above under “—Financial Holding Company Regulation”, a financial holding company that is not well-capitalized and well-managed (or whose bank subsidiaries are not well capitalized and well managed) under applicable prompt corrective action standards may be restricted in certain of its activities and ultimately may lose financial holding company status. As of December 31, 2017, the Parent Company, CBNA and CBPA were well-capitalized.

The FDIA prohibits insured banks from accepting brokered deposits or offering interest rates on any deposits significantly higher than the prevailing rate in the bank’s normal market area or nationally (depending upon where the deposits are solicited), unless it is “well-capitalized,” or it is “adequately capitalized” and receives a waiver from the FDIC. A bank that is “adequately capitalized” and that accepts brokered deposits under a waiver from the FDIC may not pay an interest rate on any deposit in excess of 75 basis points over certain prevailing market rates. The FDIA imposes no such restrictions on a bank that is “well-capitalized.”

Deposit Insurance

The FDIA requires CBNA and CBPA to pay deposit insurance assessments. FDIC assessment rates for large institutions are calculated based on one of two scorecards, one for most large institutions that have more than $10 billion in assets and another for “highly complex” institutions that have over $50 billion in assets and are fully owned by a parent with over $500 billion in assets. Each scorecard has a performance score and a loss-severity score that are combined to produce a total score, which is translated into an initial assessment rate. In calculating these scores, the FDIC utilizes the CAMELS ratings and forward-looking financial measures to assess an institution’s ability to withstand asset-related stress and funding-related stress. The FDIC has the ability to make discretionary adjustments to the total score, up or down, based upon significant risk factors that are not adequately captured in the scorecard. The total score is then translated to an initial base assessment rate on a non-linear, sharply-increasing scale. Since July 1, 2016, for large institutions the initial base assessment rate has ranged from 3 to 30 basis points on an annualized basis. After the effect of potential base-rate adjustments, the total base assessment rate could range from 1.5 to 40 basis points on an annualized basis.

The deposit insurance assessment is calculated based on average consolidated total assets less average tangible equity of the insured depository institution during the assessment period. Deposit insurance assessments are also affected by the minimum reserve ratio with respect to the Deposit Insurance Fund (“DIF”). In March 2016, the FDIC issued a final rule that imposes on insured depository institutions with at least $10 billion in assets, including CBNA and CBPA, a surcharge of 4.5 basis points per annum until the earlier of the quarter that the DIF reaches the required reserve ratio of 1.35% and December 31, 2018, which the FDIC estimates will take approximately two years. Under the rule, if the reserve ratio does not reach 1.35% by December 31, 2018, the FDIC will impose a shortfall assessment on larger depository institutions, including CBNA and CBPA, in the first quarter of 2019 to be collected on June 30, 2019. The rule has resulted in higher deposit insurance assessments for both CBNA and CBPA.

Under the FDIA, banks may also be held liable by the FDIC for certain losses incurred, or reasonably expected to be incurred, by the DIF. Either CBNA or CBPA may be liable for losses caused by the other’s default and also may be liable for any assistance provided by the FDIC to the other if in danger of default.

Dividends

Various federal and statutory provisions and regulations, as well as regulatory expectations, limit the amount of dividends that we and our subsidiaries may pay.

Our payment of dividends to our stockholders is subject to the oversight of the FRB. In particular, the dividend policies and share repurchases of a large bank holding company are reviewed by the FRB based on capital plans submitted as part of the CCAR process and stress tests as submitted by the bank holding company, as discussed above, and will be assessed against, among other things, the bank holding company’s ability to achieve the required capital ratios under the Basel III-based U.S. revised capital rules as they are phased in by U.S. regulators. In addition to other limitations, our ability to make any capital distributions (including dividends and share repurchases) is contingent on the FRB’s non-objection to such planned distributions included in our submitted capital plan. See “—Capital” and “—Capital Planning and Stress Testing Requirements” above.






CITIZENS FINANCIAL GROUP, INC.BUSINESS



Dividends payable by CBNA, as a national bank subsidiary, are limited to the lesser of the amount calculated under a “recent earnings” test and an “undivided profits” test. Under the recent earnings test, a dividend may not be paid if the total of all dividends declared by a bank in any calendar year is in excess of the current year’s net income combined with the retained net income of the two preceding years, less any required transfers to surplus, unless the national bank obtains the approval of the OCC. Under the undivided profits test, a dividend may not be paid in excess of the entity’s “undivided profits” (generally, accumulated net profits that have not been paid out as dividends or transferred to surplus). Federal bank regulatory agencies have issued policy statements which provide that FDIC-insured depository institutions and their holding companies should generally pay dividends only out of their current operating earnings. Under Pennsylvania law, CBPA may declare and pay dividends only out of accumulated net earnings and only if (i) any required transfer to surplus has been made prior to declaration of the dividend and (ii) payment of the dividend will not reduce surplus.

Support of Subsidiary Banks

Under Section 616 of the Dodd-Frank Act, which codifies the FRB’s long-standing “source of strength” doctrine, we must serve as a source of financial and managerial strength for our depository institution subsidiaries. The statute defines “source of financial strength” as the ability to provide financial assistance in the event of the financial distress at the insured depository institution. The FRB may require that we provide such support at times even when we may not have the financial resources to do so, or when doing so may not serve our interests or those of our shareholders or creditors. In addition, any capital loans by a bank holding company to its subsidiary bank are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to certain other indebtedness of such subsidiary bank. In the event of a bank holding company’s bankruptcy, any commitment by the bank holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a priority of payment.

Transactions with Affiliates and Insiders

Section 23B prohibits an institution from engaging in certain transactions with affiliates unless the transactions are on terms substantially the same, or at least as favorable to the bank, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with non-affiliated companies. Except for limitations on low-quality asset purchases and transactions that are deemed to be unsafe or unsound, Regulation W generally excludes affiliated depository institutions from treatment as affiliates. Transactions between a bank and any of its subsidiaries that are engaged in certain financial activities may be subject to the affiliated transaction limits. The FRB also may designate banking subsidiaries as affiliates.

Pursuant to FRB Regulation O, we are also subject to quantitative restrictions on extensions of credit to executive officers, directors, principal stockholders and their related interests. In general, such extensions of credit (i) may not exceed certain dollar limitations, (ii) must be made on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and collateral, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with third parties and (iii) must not involve more than the normal risk of repayment or present other unfavorable features. Certain extensions of credit also require the approval of our Board.






CITIZENS FINANCIAL GROUP, INC.BUSINESS



Volcker Rule

The Dodd-Frank Act prohibits banks and their affiliates from engaging in proprietary trading and investing in, sponsoring and having certain relationships with private funds such as hedge funds or private equity funds that would be an investment company for purposes of the Investment Company Act of 1940 but for the exclusions in sections 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of that act, both subject to certain limited exceptions. The statutory provision is commonly called the “Volcker Rule.” In December 2013, the FRB, OCC, FDIC, the SEC and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) issued final rules to implement the Volcker Rule, which became effective in July 2015. The final rules require that large bank holding companies design and implement compliance programs to ensure adherence to the Volcker Rule’s prohibitions. Development and monitoring of the required compliance program may require the expenditure of resources and management attention.

Consumer Financial Protection Regulations

The retail activities of banks are subject to a variety of statutes and regulations designed to protect consumers and promote lending to various sectors of the economy and population. These laws include, but are not limited to, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Debt Collection Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Truth in Lending Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, the Service Members Civil Relief Act, the Expected Funds Availability Act, the Right to Financial Privacy Act, the Truth in Savings Act, the Electronic Funds Transfer Act, and their respective federal regulations and state law counterparts.

In addition to these federal laws and regulations, the guidance and interpretations of the various federal agencies charged with the responsibility of implementing such regulations also influences loan and deposit operations.

The CFPB has broad rulemaking, supervisory, examination and enforcement authority over various consumer financial protection laws, including the laws referenced above, fair lending laws and certain other statutes. The CFPB also has examination and primary enforcement authority with respect to depository institutions with $10 billion or more in assets, including the authority to prevent unfair, deceptive or abusive practices in connection with the offering of consumer financial products.

The Dodd-Frank Act permits states to adopt stricter consumer protection laws and standards that are more stringent than those adopted at the federal level and in certain circumstances, permits state attorneys general to enforce compliance with both the state and federal laws and regulations. State regulation of financial products and potential enforcement actions could also adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

The CFPB implemented a number of significant rules which will impact nearly every aspect of the life cycle of a residential mortgage. The final rules require banks to, among other things: (i) develop and implement procedures to ensure compliance with a new “ability to repay” standard and identify whether a loan meets a new definition for a “qualified mortgage;” (ii) implement new or revised disclosures, policies and procedures for servicing mortgages including, but not limited to, early intervention with delinquent borrowers and specific loss mitigation procedures for loans secured by a borrower’s principal residence; (iii) comply with additional restrictions on mortgage loan originator hiring and compensation; (iv) comply with new disclosure requirements and standards for appraisals and certain financial products; and (v) maintain escrow accounts for “higher priced mortgage loans” for a longer period of time.

As previously reported, CBNA entered into a consent order with the OCC in November 2015 in connection with past billing practices. All financial penalties and remediation associated with this legacy matter have been paid and completed.

Protection of Customer Personal Information and Cybersecurity

The privacy provisions of GLBA generally prohibit financial institutions, including us, from disclosing nonpublic personal financial information of consumer customers to third parties for certain purposes (primarily marketing) unless customers have the opportunity to opt out of the disclosure. The Fair Credit Reporting Act restricts information sharing among affiliates for marketing purposes. Both the Fair Credit Reporting Act and Regulation V, issued by the FRB, govern the use and provision of information to consumer reporting agencies.

In March 2015, federal regulators issued two related statements regarding cybersecurity. One statement indicates that financial institutions should design multiple layers of security controls to establish lines of defense and to ensure that their risk management processes also address the risk posed by compromised customer credentials, including security measures to reliably authenticate customers’ accessing internet-based services of the financial institution. The other statement indicates that a financial institution’s management is expected to maintain sufficient business continuity planning processes to ensure the rapid recovery, resumption and maintenance of the institution’s operations after a cyber attack involving destructive malware. A financial institution is also expected to develop






CITIZENS FINANCIAL GROUP, INC.BUSINESS



appropriate processes to enable recovery of data and business operations and address rebuilding network capabilities and restoring data if the institution or its critical service providers fall victim to this type of cyber attack. If we fail to observe the regulatory guidance, we could be subject to various regulatory sanctions, including financial penalties. For a further discussion of risks related to cybersecurity, see “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A, included in this report.

In October 2016, federal regulators jointly issued an advance notice of proposed rulemaking on enhanced cyber risk management standards that are intended to increase the operational resilience of large and interconnected entities under their supervision. Once established, the enhanced cyber risk management standards would help to reduce the potential impact of a cyber-attack or other cyber-related failure on the financial system. The advance notice of proposed rulemaking addresses five categories of cyber standards: (i) cyber risk governance; (ii) cyber risk management; (iii) internal dependency management; (iv) external dependency management; and (v) incident response, cyber resilience, and situational awareness. We will continue to monitor any developments related to this proposed rulemaking.

State regulators have also been increasingly active in implementing privacy and cybersecurity standards and regulations. In 2017, several states adopted regulations requiring certain financial institutions to implement cybersecurity programs and providing detailed requirements with respect to these programs, including data encryption requirements. Many states have also recently implemented or modified their data breach notification and data privacy requirements. We expect this trend of state-level activity to continue, and are continually monitoring developments in the states in which we operate.

Community Reinvestment Act Requirements

The CRA requires banking regulators to evaluate us and our banking subsidiaries in meeting the credit needs of our local communities, including providing credit to individuals residing in low- and moderate- income neighborhoods. The CRA requires each appropriate federal bank regulatory agency, in connection with its examination of a depository institution, to assess such institution’s record in assessing and meeting the credit needs of the community served by that institution and assign ratings. The regulatory agency’s assessment of the institution’s record is made available to the public. These evaluations are also considered in evaluating mergers, acquisitions and applications to open a branch or facility and, in the case of a bank holding company that has elected financial holding company status, a CRA rating of “satisfactory” is required to commence certain new financial activities or to acquire a company engaged in such activities. We received a rating of “satisfactory” in our most-recent CRA evaluation.

Compensation

Our compensation practices are subject to oversight by the FRB. The federal banking regulators have issued guidance designed to ensure that incentive compensation arrangements at banking organizations take into account risk and are consistent with safe and sound practices. The guidance sets forth the following three key principles with respect to incentive compensation arrangements: (i) the arrangements should provide employees with incentives that appropriately balance risk and financial results in a manner that does not encourage employees to expose their organizations to imprudent risk; (ii) the arrangements should be compatible with effective controls and risk management; and (iii) the arrangements should be supported by strong corporate governance. The guidance provides that supervisory findings with respect to incentive compensation will be incorporated, as appropriate, into the organization’s supervisory ratings, which can affect its ability to make acquisitions or perform other actions. The guidance also provides that enforcement actions may be taken against a banking organization if its incentive compensation arrangements or related risk management, control or governance processes pose a risk to the organization’s safety and soundness.

The U.S. financial regulators, including the FRB and the SEC, have jointly proposed regulations to, among other things, prohibit incentive-based compensation arrangements that encourage inappropriate risk taking at specified regulated entities having at least $1 billion in total assets (including the Parent Company and CBNA). These regulations were initially proposed in 2011 and re-proposed in 2016. They have not been finalized and the timing of final adoption and the form of any final regulations is uncertain. If the rules are adopted in the form proposed, they may restrict our flexibility with respect to the manner in which we structure compensation and adversely affect our ability to compete for talent.

Anti-Money Laundering

The USA PATRIOT Act, enacted in 2001 and renewed in 2006, substantially broadened the scope of U.S. anti-money laundering laws and regulations by imposing significant new compliance and due diligence obligations, creating new crimes and penalties and expanding the extra-territorial jurisdiction of the United States. Institutions must






CITIZENS FINANCIAL GROUP, INC.BUSINESS



maintain anti-money laundering programs that include established internal policies, procedures and controls; a designated compliance officer; an ongoing employee training program; and testing of the program by an independent audit function. We are prohibited from entering into specified financial transactions and account relationships and must meet enhanced standards for due diligence in dealings with foreign financial institutions and foreign customers. We also must take reasonable steps to conduct enhanced scrutiny of account relationships to guard against money laundering and to report any suspicious transactions. Recent laws provide law enforcement authorities with increased access to financial information maintained by banks.

The USA PATRIOT Act also provides for the facilitation of information sharing among governmental entities and financial institutions for the purpose of combating terrorism and money laundering. The statute also creates enhanced information collection tools and enforcement mechanics for the U.S. government, including: (i) requiring standards for verifying customer identification at account opening; (ii) promulgating rules to promote cooperation among financial institutions, regulators and law enforcement entities in identifying parties that may be involved in terrorism or money laundering; (iii) requiring reports by non-financial trades and businesses filed with the Treasury’s Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (“FinCEN”) for transactions exceeding $10,000; and (iv) mandating the filing of suspicious activities reports if a bank believes a customer may be violating U.S. laws and regulations. The statute also requires enhanced due diligence requirements for financial institutions that administer, maintain or manage private bank accounts or correspondent accounts for non-U.S. persons. Bank regulators routinely examine institutions for compliance with these obligations and are required to consider compliance in connection with the regulatory review of applications.

In 2014, FinCEN, which drafts regulations implementing the USA PATRIOT Act and other anti-money laundering and bank secrecy act legislation, proposed a rule that would require financial institutions to obtain beneficial ownership information with respect to legal entities with which such institutions conduct business, subject to certain exclusions and exemptions. In May 2016, FinCEN issued its final rules with respect to customer due diligence requirements, and financial institutions that are subject to these final rules are required to comply by May 2018. Bank regulators are focusing their examinations on anti-money laundering compliance, and we continue to monitor and augment, where necessary, our anti-money laundering compliance programs.

Office of Foreign Assets Control Regulation






CITIZENS FINANCIAL GROUP, INC.BUSINESS



Regulation of Broker-Dealers

Our subsidiary CCMI is a registered broker-dealer with the SEC and, as a result, is subject to regulation and examination by the SEC, FINRA and other self-regulatory organizations. These regulations cover a broad range of issues, including capital requirements; sales and trading practices; use of client funds and securities; the conduct of directors, officers and employees; record-keeping and recording; supervisory procedures to prevent improper trading on material non-public information; qualification and licensing of sales personnel; and limitations on the extension of credit in securities transactions. In addition to federal registration, state securities commissions require the registration of certain broker-dealers.

Heightened Risk Governance Standards

In September 2014, the OCC finalized guidelines that establish heightened risk governance standards for large national banks with average total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, including CBNA. The guidelines set forth minimum standards for the design and implementation of a bank’s risk governance framework, and minimum standards for oversight of that framework by a bank’s board of directors. The guidelines are an extension of the OCC’s “heightened expectations” for large banks that the OCC began informally communicating to certain banks in 2010. The guidelines are intended to protect the safety and soundness of covered banks and improve bank examiners’ ability to assess compliance with the OCC’s expectations. Under the guidelines, a bank could use certain components of its parent company’s risk governance framework, but the framework must ensure that the bank’s risk profile is easily distinguished and separate from the parent’s for risk management and supervisory purposes. A bank’s board of directors is required to have two members who are independent of the bank and parent company management. A bank’s board of directors is responsible for ensuring that the risk governance framework meets the standards in the guidelines, providing active oversight and a credible challenge to management’s recommendations and decisions and ensuring that the parent company decisions do not jeopardize the safety and soundness of the bank.

Anti-Tying Restrictions

Generally, a bank may not extend credit, lease, sell property or furnish any services or fix or vary the consideration for them on the condition that (i) the customer obtain or provide some additional credit, property or services from or to that bank or its bank holding company or their subsidiaries or (ii) the customer not obtain some other credit, property or services from a competitor, except to the extent reasonable conditions are imposed to assure the soundness of the credit extended. A bank may however, offer combined-balance products and may otherwise offer more favorable terms if a customer obtains two or more traditional bank products. Certain foreign transactions are exempt from the general rule.

Commercial Real Estate Lending

Lending operations that involve concentrations of commercial real estate loans are subject to enhanced scrutiny by federal banking regulators. Regulators have advised financial institutions of the risks posed by commercial real estate lending concentrations. Such loans generally include land development, construction loans and loans secured by multifamily property and nonfarm, nonresidential real property where the primary source of repayment is derived from rental income associated with the property. The relevant regulatory guidance prescribes the following guidelines for examiners to help identify institutions that are potentially exposed to concentration risk and may warrant greater supervisory scrutiny:

•Total reported loans for construction, land development and other land represent 100% or more of the institution’s total capital, or

•Total commercial real estate loans represent 300% or more of the institution’s total capital, and the outstanding balance of the institution’s commercial real estate loan portfolio has increased by 50% or more during the prior 36 months.

In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act contains provisions that may cause us to reduce the amount of our commercial real estate lending and increase the cost of borrowing, including rules relating to risk retention of securitized assets. Section 941 of the Dodd-Frank Act and implementing rules adopted by the U.S. financial services regulators, including the federal banking regulators and the SEC, require, among other things, a loan originator or a securitizer of asset-backed securities to retain a percentage of the credit risk of securitized assets. We continue to analyze the impact that such rules have on our business.

Intellectual Property

In the highly competitive banking industry in which we operate, trademarks, service marks, trade names and logos are important to the success of our business. We own and license a variety of trademarks, service marks,






CITIZENS FINANCIAL GROUP, INC.BUSINESS



trade names, logos and pending registrations and are spending significant resources to develop our stand-alone brands. In connection with our IPO, on September 29, 2014, we entered into a trademark license agreement, pursuant to which we were granted a limited license to use The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc daisywheel trademark for an initial term of five years and, at our option, up to ten years.

Employees

As ofDecember 31, 2017, we had approximately 17,600 FTEs, including approximately 17,100 full-time colleagues, 200 part-time colleagues and 300 temporary employees. None of our employees are parties to a collective bargaining agreement. We consider our relationship with our employees to be good and have not experienced interruptions of operations due to labor disagreements.








CITIZENS FINANCIAL GROUP, INC.RISK FACTORS



