ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Headquartered in Providence, Rhode Island, with$138.2 billionof total assets as ofDecember 31, 2015, we were the 13thlargest retail bank holding company in the United States.(1)Our approximately17,700colleagues strive to meet the financial needs of customers and prospects through approximately1,200branches operating in an11-state footprint across the New England, Mid-Atlantic and Midwest regions and through our online, telephone and mobile banking platforms. Our branch banking footprint contained approximately30 millionhouseholds and3.1 millionbusinesses as ofDecember 31, 2015.(1)We also maintain over100retail and commercial non-branch offices located both in our banking footprint and in other states and the District of Columbia largely contiguous to our footprint. We deliver a comprehensive range of retail and commercial banking products and services to more thanfive millionindividuals, institutions and companies and as ofDecember 31, 2015nearly 70% of our loans were to customers in our footprint and eight contiguous states where we maintain offices.

Our primary subsidiaries are CBNA, a national banking association whose primary federal regulator is the OCC, and CBPA, a Pennsylvania-chartered savings bank regulated by the Department of Banking of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and supervised by the FDIC as its primary federal regulator.

Our History

In September 2014, Citizens Financial Group (CFG: NYSE) became a publicly-traded company in the largest traditional bank IPO in U.S. history. Following three subsequent follow on equity offerings in March, July, and November of 2015, Citizens is now fully separated from RBS.

Our history dates back to High Street Bank, founded in 1828, which established Citizens Savings Bank in 1871. Citizens Savings Bank acquired a controlling interest in its founder by the 1940s, renaming the entity Citizens Trust Company. By 1981, we had grown to 29 branches in Rhode Island with approximately $1.0 billion of assets, and in 1988 we became a wholly-owned subsidiary of RBS. Over the following two decades, we grew substantially through a series of over 25 strategic bank acquisitions, which greatly expanded our footprint throughout New England and into the Mid-Atlantic and the Midwest, transforming us from a local retail bank into one of the largest retail U.S. bank holding companies.

Business Segments

We offer a broad set of banking products and services through our two operating segments — Consumer Banking and Commercial Banking — with a focus on providing local delivery and a differentiated customer experience.  We seek to ensure that customers select us as their primary banking partner by taking the time to understand their banking needs and we tailor our full range of products and services accordingly.

The following table presents certain financial information for our segments:

For the Year Ended December 31,20152014(in millions)Consumer BankingCommercial BankingOther(2)ConsolidatedConsumer BankingCommercial BankingOther(2)ConsolidatedTotal average loans and leases and loans held for sale$51,484$41,593$3,469$96,546$47,745$37,683$4,316$89,744Total average deposits and deposits held for sale69,74823,4735,93399,15468,21419,8384,51292,564Net interest income2,1981,162423,4022,1511,073773,301Noninterest income910415971,4228994293501,678Total revenue3,1081,5771394,8243,0501,5024274,979Noninterest expense2,456709943,2592,5136522273,392Net income (loss)$262$579($1)$840$182$561$122$865

(1)According to SNL Financial.

(2)Includes the financial impact of non-core, liquidating loan portfolios and other non-core assets and liabilities, our treasury activities, wholesale funding activities, securities portfolio, community development assets and other unallocated assets, liabilities, revenues, provision for credit losses and expenses not attributed to the Consumer Banking or Commercial Banking segments. For a description of non-core assets, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Analysis of Financial Condition —December 31, 2015Compared withDecember 31, 2014— Loans and Leases — Non-Core Assets” in Part II, Item 7, included elsewhere in this report.










CITIZENS FINANCIAL GROUP, INC.BUSINESS



Consumer Banking Segment

Consumer Banking serves retail customers and small businesses with annual revenues of up to $25 million through a network that as ofDecember 31, 2015included approximately1,200branches operating in an11-state footprint across the New England, Mid-Atlantic and Midwest regions, as well as through online, telephone and mobile banking platforms. Consumer Banking products and services include deposit products, mortgage and home equity lending, student loans, auto financing, credit cards, business loans, wealth management and investment services.

Consumer Banking is focused on winning, expanding and retaining customers through its value proposition: “Simple. Clear. Personal.” and is committed to delivering a differentiated experience through convenience and service.   We were named one of the “Most Reputable Banks” in the country, according to the American Banker/Reputation Institute Survey of Bank Reputations released in 2015, which focused on factors including products, corporate citizenship, financial performance and company leadership.

Consumer Banking accounted for$51.5 billion, or55%, of average loans and leases (including loans held for sale) in our operating segments as ofDecember 31, 2015and is organized around the customer products and services as follows:

Distribution:Provides a multi-channel distribution system a workforce of approximately 7,000 branch colleagues with a network of approximately 1,200 branches, including over 340 in-store locations, as well as approximately 3,200 ATMs. Our network includes approximately 1,300 specialists covering savings and investments, lending needs and business banking. Our online and mobile capabilities offer customers the convenience of paying bills, transferring money between accounts and from person to person, in addition to a host of other everyday transactions through a robust digital platform.

Everyday Banking:Provides customers with deposit and payment products and services, including checking, savings, money market, certificates of deposit, debit cards, credit cards and overdraft protection. The business included approximately 2.2 million checking households and $53.8 billion in average deposits as of December 31, 2015.

Residential Mortgage: Our mortgage business is primarily in footprint and in select out-of-footprint states through a direct-to-consumer call center and a mortgage loan officer base of over 440 as of December 31, 2015. In October of 2015, we brought together the end-to-end mortgage business to maximize talent, strengthen our service quality front-to-back, and simplify how the business operates. Full year 2015 mortgage originations totaled $5.7 billion with a weighted average FICO score of 763 and loan-to-value of 73%.

Consumer Lending:Provides home equity, personal unsecured lines and loans, student lending, and auto finance products.  Aligning these lending products enabled sales and operations synergies, sharing of best practices, and better prioritization of resources to maximize growth opportunities.

Home Equity:Offers home equity loans and home equity lines of credit.  We originated $4.0 billion of HELOCs in 2015 and were ranked sixth nationally by outstanding balances as of September 30, 2015(1)and ranked in the top 5 in 8 of our top 9 markets for HELOC originations.(2)





(1)According to SNL Financial.

(2)According to Equifax as of September 30, 2015.








CITIZENS FINANCIAL GROUP, INC.BUSINESS



Student Lending:We launched the Student Lending business in 2009 and have expanded to partner with nearly 2,400 high-quality not-for-profit higher education schools in all 50 states. InSchool loan origination volume has increased from $112 million in 2010 to $387 million in 2015 with a weighted-average FICO score of 771.  We launched the Education Refinance Loan (“ERL”) product in January 2014, which provides those who have entered the workforce a way to refinance or consolidate multiple existing private and federal student loans. We originated approximately $230 million ERL loans in 2014 and approximately $1.1 billion in 2015 with a weighted average FICO score of 781.

Indirect Auto Finance:Provides new and used vehicle financing to prime borrowers through a network of over 6,800 automotive dealerships in 43 states as of December 31, 2015. We implemented a new origination platform in October 2013 that has facilitated more granular credit and pricing strategies which will enable us to optimize risk-adjusted returns. The business ranked seventh nationally among regulated depository institutions by outstanding balances as of September 30, 2015(1)with 2015 origination volume of $7.0 billion with a weighted average FICO score of approximately 744.

Business Banking:Serves businesses with annual revenues of up to $25 million through a combination of branch-based employees, business banking officers and relationship managers. As ofDecember 31, 2015, we employed a team of over 360 bankers with loans outstanding of $3.0 billion and average deposit balances of $13.3 billion.

Wealth Management:Provides a full range of advisory services to clients with an array of banking, investment and insurance products and services through a sales force which includes more than 315 financial consultants, over 160 premier bankers and 13 private banker teams. As ofDecember 31, 2015, wealth management had approximately $6.5 billion in assets under management (including $2.4 billion of separately managed accounts) and $12.9 billion in investment brokerage assets.

Commercial Banking Segment

Commercial Banking primarily targets companies and institutions with annual revenues of $25 million to $2.5 billion and strives to be the lead bank for its clients. Commercial Banking offers a broad complement of financial products and solutions, including lending and leasing, deposit and treasury management, foreign exchange and interest rate risk management, corporate finance and debt and equity capital markets capabilities. Commercial Banking provides “Thought Leadership” by leveraging an in-depth understanding of our clients’ and prospects’ businesses to proactively deliver compelling financial solutions with quality execution. Commercial Banking focuses each business unit in sectors that maximize its ability to be relevant and deliver value added solutions to our clients.  In middle-market, this involves a business unit highly focused on our 11-state footprint.  In vertical market-oriented businesses, our focus is national within our areas of expertise.

We believe our Commercial Banking segment provides a compelling value proposition based on “Thought Leadership” for clients. Results are evidenced by a fifth place ranking for client penetration and a fourth place ranking for number of lead relationships in middle-market banking within the footprint.(2)

Commercial Banking is structured along lines of business, as well as product groups. Both the Capital & Global Markets and the Treasury Solutions product groups support all lines of business. These business lines and product groups work in teams to understand and determine client needs and provide comprehensive solutions to meet those needs. New clients are acquired through a coordinated approach to the market ranging from leveraging deep industry knowledge in specialized banking groups to a geographic coverage model targeting organizations headquartered in the branch geographic footprint.















(1)According to SNL Financial.

(2)According to Greenwich Associates syndicated market research.








CITIZENS FINANCIAL GROUP, INC.BUSINESS



Commercial Banking accounted for $41.6 billion, or approximately45%, of average loans and leases (including loans held for sale) in our operating segments as ofDecember 31, 2015, and is organized as follows:





Corporate Banking:Targets domestic commercial and industrial clients, serving middle-market companies with annual gross revenues of $25 million to $500 million and mid-corporate companies with annual revenues of $500 million to $2.5 billion. The business offers a broad range of products, including lines of credit, term loans, commercial mortgages, domestic and global treasury management solutions, trade services, interest rate products and foreign exchange. Loans are extended on both a secured and unsecured basis, and are substantially all at floating rates of interest. Corporate Banking is a general lending practice, however there are specialty industry verticals addressing U.S. subsidiaries of foreign corporations, technology, government entities, healthcare, oil and gas, not-for-profit and educational institutions, professional firms, franchise finance, and business capital (asset-based lending).

Asset Finance:Offers equipment financing term loans and leases for middle-market and mid-corporate companies, as well as Fortune 500 companies. All transactions are secured by the assets financed and commitments tend to be fully drawn and most leases and loans are fixed rate. Areas of industry specialization include energy, utilities, and chemicals. The business also has expertise in financing corporate aircraft and tax- and non-tax-oriented leases for other long-lived assets such as rail cars.

Commercial Real Estate:Provides customized debt capital solutions for middle-market operators, institutional developers and investors as well as REITs. CRE provides financing for projects in the office, multi-family, industrial, retail, healthcare and hospitality sectors. Loan types include term debt, lines of credit, as well as construction financing. Most loans are secured by commercial real estate properties and are typically non-owner occupied. Owner-occupied commercial real estate is typically originated through our Corporate Banking business.

Capital & Global Markets:Delivers to clients through key product groups including Capital Markets, Corporate Finance, and Global Markets

•Capital Markets originates, structures and underwrites multi-bank credit facilities targeting middle-market, mid-corporate and private equity sponsors with a focus on offering value-added ideas to optimize their capital structure. From 2010 through 2015, Capital Markets was involved in closing 607 lead or co-lead transactions.

•Corporate Finance provides advisory services to middle-market and mid-corporate companies, including mergers and acquisitions, equity private placements and capital structure advisory. The team works closely with industry sector specialists within debt capital markets on proprietary transaction development which serves to originate deal flow in multiple bank products.

•Global Markets is a customer-facing business providing foreign exchange and interest rate risk management services. The lines of business include the centralized leveraged finance team, which provides underwriting and portfolio management expertise for all leveraged transactions and relationships; the private equity team, which serves the unique and time-sensitive needs of private equity firms, management companies and funds; and the sponsor finance team, which provides acquisition and follow-on financing for new and recapitalized portfolio companies of key sponsors.








CITIZENS FINANCIAL GROUP, INC.BUSINESS



Treasury Solutions:Supports all lines of business in Commercial Banking and Business Banking with treasury management solutions, including domestic and international cash management, commercial credit cards and trade finance. Treasury Solutions provides products to solve client needs related to receivables, payables, information reporting and liquidity management. Treasury Solutions serves small business banking clients (up to $500,000 annual revenue) up to large mid-corporate clients (over $2.5 billion annual revenue).

Our Competitive Strengths

Our long operating history, through a range of challenging economic cycles, forms the basis of our competitive strengths. From our community bank roots, we bring a commitment to strong customer relationships, local service and an active involvement in the communities we serve. Our acquisitions enabled us to develop significant scale in highly desirable markets and broad product capabilities. The actions taken since the global financial crisis have resulted in a business model with solid asset quality, a stable core deposit mix and a superior capital position. In particular, we believe that the following strengths differentiate us from our competitors and provide a strong foundation from which to execute our strategy to deliver enhanced growth, profitability and returns.

•Significant Scale with Strong Market Penetration in Attractive Geographic Markets:We believe our market share and scale in our footprint is central to our success and growth. With approximately 1,200 branches, approximately 3,200 ATMs, approximately 17,700 colleagues, and over 100 non-branch offices as well as our online, telephone and mobile banking platforms, we serve more than five million individuals, institutions and companies. As of June 30, 2015, we ranked second by deposit market share in the New England region (Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode Island and Connecticut), and we ranked in the top five in nine of our key MSAs, including Boston, Providence, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh and Cleveland.(1)We believe this strong market share in our core regions, which have relatively diverse economies and affluent demographics, will help us achieve our long-term growth objectives.



The following table sets forth information regarding our competitive position in our principal MSAs:

(dollars in millions)MSATotal BranchesDepositsMarket RankMarket ShareBoston, MA204$29,167215.5%Philadelphia, PA18616,64255.2Providence, RI10011,065129.8Pittsburgh, PA1279,37529.6Cleveland, OH575,69838.9Detroit, MI904,76884.1Manchester, NH214,639138.3Albany, NY252,660212.7Buffalo, NY411,70644.3Rochester, NY341,57859.5

Source: FDIC, June 2015.  Excludes “non-retail banks” as defined by SNL Financial. The scope of “non-retail banks” is subject to the discretion of SNL Financial, but typically includes: industrial bank and non-depository trust charters, institutions with over 20% brokered deposits (of total deposits), institutions with over 20% credit card loans (of total loans), institutions deemed not to broadly participate in the banking services market, and other nonretail competitor banks.



•Strong Customer Relationships:We focus on building strong customer relationships by delivering a consistent, high-quality level of service supported by a wide range of products and services. We believe that we provide a distinctive customer experience characterized by offering the personal touch of a local bank with the product selection of a larger financial institution. Our Consumer Banking cross-sell efforts have improved to 5.1 products and services per retail household as ofDecember 31, 2015compared to 4.4 products and services as of December 31, 2010. Additionally, the overall customer satisfaction index continued to improve in the New England region (up 1% from2014to2015).(2)In addition, we maintained our top 10 ranking in the overall national middle market bookrunner league table (by number of syndicated loans) for the full year 2015(3)and received a number 1 rank in our Net Promoter Score compared to the top four competitors in our footprint based on rolling four-quarter data through September 30, 2015.(1)Net Promoter Score is a customer loyalty metric, which is calculated by subtracting the percentage of customers who on a scale of 1-10 are detractors (rating 0-6) from the percentage of customers who are promoters (rating 9-10).

(1)According to Greenwich Associates syndicated market research.

(2)As measured by J.D. Power and Associates.

(3)According to Thomson Reuters.






CITIZENS FINANCIAL GROUP, INC.BUSINESS



•Experienced Management Team Supported by a High-Performing and Talented Workforce:Our leadership team of seasoned industry professionals is supported by a highly motivated, diverse set of managers and employees committed to delivering a strong customer value proposition. Our highly experienced and talented executive management team, whose members have more than 20 years of banking experience on average, provides strong leadership to deliver on our overall business objectives. Bruce Van Saun, our Chairman and CEO, has more than 30 years of financial services experience including four years as RBS Finance Director. Earlier in his career, Mr. Van Saun held a number of senior positions at The Bank of New York Mellon, Deutsche Bank, Wasserstein Perella Group and Kidder Peabody & Co. We continued to attract top talent throughout 2015. Don McCree recently joined the bank as our Vice Chairman and Head of Commercial Banking, and Eric Aboaf became our Chief Financial Officer.  Mr. McCree previously served in a number of senior leadership positions over the course of 31 years at JPMorgan Chase & Co., and Mr. Aboaf most recently held the role of global Treasurer at Citigroup Inc.  In addition, we have also hired new leadership in our mortgage and wealth businesses to drive growth in those key areas.

•Stable, Low-Cost Core Deposit Base:We have a strong funding profile, with $102.5 billion of total deposits as ofDecember 31, 2015, consisting of 27% in noninterest-bearing deposits and 73% in interest-bearing deposits. Noninterest-bearing deposits provide a lower-cost funding base, and we grew this base to $27.6 billion atDecember 31, 2015, up 40% from $19.7 billion at December 31, 2010. For the year endedDecember 31, 2015, our total average cost of deposits was 0.24%, up from 0.17% for the year endedDecember 31, 2014, 0.23% for the year endedDecember 31, 2013, 0.40% for the year ended December 31, 2012 and 0.54% for the year ended December 31, 2011.

•Superior Capital Position:We are among the most well capitalized large regional banks in the United States, with a CET1 ratio of 11.7% as of December 31, 2015 compared to a peer average of 10.4%(1)as of December 31, 2015. Our strong capital position provides us the financial flexibility to continue to invest in our businesses and execute our strategic growth initiatives. Through recent capital optimization efforts, we have sought to better align our capital base with that of our peers banks by reducing our common equity Tier 1 capital and increasing other Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital levels. We continued our capital optimization strategy in 2015 by repurchasing $500 million of common stock funded by the issuance of $250 million of preferred stock and $250 million of subordinated debt.

•Solid Asset Quality Throughout a Range of Credit Cycles:Our experienced credit risk professionals and prudent credit culture, combined with centralized processes and consistent underwriting standards across all business lines, have allowed us to maintain strong asset quality through a variety of business cycles. As a result, we weathered the global financial crisis better than our peers: for the two-year period ending December 31, 2009, net charge-offs averaged 1.63% of average loans compared to a peer average of 1.76%.(1)More recently, the credit quality of our loan portfolio has continued to improve with nonperforming assets as a percentage of total assets of 0.80% atDecember 31, 2015compared to 0.86% and 1.20% as ofDecember 31, 2014and2013, respectively. Net charge-offs declined substantially to 0.30% of average loans in 2015 versus 0.36% in 2014. Our ALLL was 1.23% of total loans atDecember 31, 2015compared with 1.28% as ofDecember 31, 2014. We believe the high quality of our loan portfolio provides us with capacity to prudently seek to add more attractive, higher yielding risk-adjusted returns while still maintaining appropriate risk discipline and solid asset quality.

•Commitment to Communities:Community involvement is one of our principal values and we strive to contribute to a better quality of life by serving the communities across our footprint through employee volunteer efforts, a foundation that funds a range of non-profit organizations and executives that provide board leadership to community organizations. These efforts contribute to a culture that seeks to promote positive employee morale and provide differentiated brand awareness in the community relative to peer banks, while also making a positive difference within the communities we serve. Employees gave more than 70,000 volunteer hours in 2015 and also served on over 550 community boards across our footprint. We believe our strong commitment to our communities provides a competitive advantage by strengthening customer relationships and increasing loyalty.

Business Strategy

Building on our core strengths, our objective is to be a top-performing bank that delivers well for each of our stakeholders by offering the best possible banking experience for customers. We plan to achieve this by leveraging our strong customer relationships, leading market share rankings in attractive markets, customer-centric colleagues, and our high quality balance sheet.

Our strategy is designed to maximize the full potential of our business and drive sustainable growth and enhanced profitability. As a core measure of success, our medium-term financial targets include a ROTCE ratio of greater than 10% and an efficiency ratio in the 60% range. Our financial targets are based on numerous assumptions including the yield curve evolving consistent with market implied forward rates and that macroeconomic and competitive conditions are consistent with those used in our planning assumptions.

(1)According to SNL Financial.






CITIZENS FINANCIAL GROUP, INC.BUSINESS



While our strategic plan and our ROTCE target and its components are presented with numerical specificity and we believe such targets to be reasonable given the uncertainties surrounding our assumptions, there are significant risks that these assumptions may not be realized and thus our goals may not be achieved. Accordingly, our actual results may differ from these targets and the differences may be material and adverse, particularly if actual events adversely differ from one or more of our key assumptions. We caution investors not to place undue reliance on any of these assumptions or targets.

We intend to deliver on this by adhering to the following strategic principles:

•Offer customers a differentiated experiencethrough the quality of our colleagues, products and services, and foster a culture around customer-centricity, commitment to excellence, leadership, teamwork and integrity.

•Build a great brandthat invokes trust from customers and reinforces our value proposition of being “Simple. Clear. Personal.” for Consumer customers and providing solutions-oriented “Thought Leadership” to Commercial clients.

•Deliver attractive risk-adjusted returnsby making good capital and resource allocation decisions, being good stewards of our resources, and rigorously evaluating our execution.

•Operate with a strong balancesheetwith regards to capital, liquidity and funding, coupled with a well-defined and prudent risk appetite.

•Maintain a balanced business mixbetween Commercial Banking and Consumer Banking.

•Position the bank as a ‘community leader’that makes a positive impact on the communities and local economies we serve.

In order to successfully execute on these principles, we have developed the following strategic priorities, each of which are underpinned by a series of initiatives as summarized below. We have made solid progress on our strategic priorities and the underlying initiatives over the past year, due primarily to the strength of our business model, management team, culture of accountability and risk management.

Position Consumer Banking to deliver improved capabilities and profitability:Consumer Banking offers a “Simple. Clear. Personal.” value proposition to our customers. The focus is on building strong customer relationships along with a robust product portfolio that is designed to be simple and easy to understand while creating a fair value exchange for our customers. The following initiatives are being implemented to execute against our value proposition:

•Re-energize household growth and deepen relationships— We strive to grow and deepen existing customer relationships by delivering a differentiated customer experience. We believe this approach will enable us to win, retain and expand customer relationships, as well as increase cross-sell and share of wallet penetration.  We will also continue to invest in our online and mobile channels and optimize our distribution network.  We recently launched an effort to improve multi-channel sales effectiveness, with the goal of deepening customer relationships using a needs based approach (“Citizens Checkup”).

•Expand and enhance Wealth Management— We view our wealth management business as an opportunity for continued growth and as vital to deepening the customer relationship and improving fee income generation.

•Build a strong Residential Mortgage business— Recognizing the critical importance of the mortgage product to the customer experience and relationship, we are building out our mortgage team and platform to achieve a solid market share position and generate consistent origination volumes.  We are focused on improving penetration with our existing customer base and increasing our origination mix of conforming loans.

•Drive growth in Student Lending and installment loans— We have identified the underserved private student lending market as an attractive source of risk-adjusted revenue growth. We are well-positioned for growth in student lending with a unique education refinance product that serves a critical borrower need.  We also have strong expertise in unsecured based lending based on a partnership with Apple.

•Invest in and grow Business Banking— We have recognized that strengthening efforts in the business banking market is critical to grow profitable relationships and drive scalable growth of the franchise.  We view this as an important source for loans, deposits, and cash management revenue.

•Optimize indirect Auto business— Our auto initiative supports diversification of revenue generation outside of our traditional retail distribution channels.  We continue to optimize this business through prudent expansion of originations across a broader credit spectrum to include predominantly prime borrowers and enhancing our pricing strategy to price loans in more granular ways (e.g., vehicle type, geography).

These initiatives have already resulted in a stronger Consumer franchise in 2015, highlighted by net checking account growth of approximately 28,000 and nearly 2.2 million checking households.  Additionally, Consumer Banking average loans and leases of $51.5 billion for the year endedDecember 31, 2015grew $3.7 billion, or 8%, from the year endedDecember 31, 2014.






CITIZENS FINANCIAL GROUP, INC.BUSINESS



Continue the momentum in Commercial Banking:We continue to see further build-out of the Commercial Banking business as critical to achieving a balanced business mix, and consequently have grown the contribution of Commercial loans to be 45% of operating segment loans. The initiatives below have enabled the Commercial Banking business to continue its positive momentum while building upon existing strengths to further develop the “Thought Leadership” value proposition.

•Strengthen Middle Market— We are continuing to build on our strong core relationships and capabilities in the middle market, which will drive client growth and better share of wallet penetration.  In 2015, we improved customer pricing and cross-sell efforts through enhanced pricing calculators and customer analytics.

•Build out Mid-Corporate and Industry Verticals— Since the third quarter of 2013, we have been building capabilities nationally in the mid-corporate space, which is focused on serving larger, mostly public clients with annual revenue of more than $500 million. The geographic expansion has been selective and in markets where our established expertise and product capabilities can be relevant.  We have focused our growth on specialty verticals where we can leverage industry expertise (e.g., Healthcare, Technology, Oil and Gas).

•Development of Capital & Global Markets— We are strengthening capabilities in Capital Markets to provide comprehensive solutions to meet client needs, including building an institutional sales capability, loan trading desk, broker-dealer, and fixed income capabilities.

•Build out Treasury Solutions— We have made investments to upgrade our Treasury Solutions systems and products while also strengthening the leadership team to better meet client needs and diversifying the revenue base into other noninterest income areas.  In 2015, we better aligned our Treasury Services pricing to the market, allowing us to continue to invest in our products and capabilities.

•Leverage Franchise Finance capabilities with credibility— We are a top provider of capital to leading franchisees from concepts including McDonald’s, Taco Bell, Dunkin’ Donuts, Buffalo Wild Wings, Wendy’s and Applebee’s. We are also broadening our target market to focus on regional restaurant operating companies and expanding penetration of gas station and convenience dealers.

•Optimize Commercial Real Estate— New product and market investments we’ve made in CRE have improved asset and return growth in recent years.  We will continue to grow our CRE business, while prudently balancing market and product risk with portfolio growth.

•Reposition Asset Finance— We are repositioning our asset finance business to focus on cross-sell referrals from our Middle Market and Mid-Corporate businesses (while in the past we leveraged referrals from RBS).  In addition, we are focusing on industries and collaterals where we have expertise including trucking, rail, construction, and renewable energy. These moves are designed to improve returns, while focusing on areas where we have demonstrated a strong balance of risk and returns.

The Commercial Banking business has continued to display solid financial results and executed well on these initiatives with loan portfolio growth of $3.9 billion, or 10%, year-over-year along with strong deposit growth as average deposits increased $3.6 billion in2015, or 18%, compared to the average level of deposits for2014.

Grow the balance sheet to build scale and better leverage our cost base and infrastructure:We have a scalable operating platform that has the capacity to accommodate a significantly larger balance sheet than our current size. Prior to the global financial crisis, we had expanded to nearly $170 billion in assets which was then intentionally contracted in order to reposition the bank and strengthen our business profile through the run off of non-core assets and reduced dependency on wholesale funding.

Over the past year, we have begun to grow the consolidated balance sheet again, through organic growth and selective portfolio purchases:

•Total assets increased $5.4 billion to $138.2 billion atDecember 31, 2015, or 4%, compared toDecember 31, 2014;

•Loans and leases (excluding loans and leases held for sale) increased by $5.6 billion, or 6%, fromDecember 31, 2014, reflecting a $3.0 billion increase in commercial and a $2.6 billion increase in retail loans; and

•Total deposits (excluding deposits held for sale) increased $6.8 billion, or 7%, compared withDecember 31, 2014, driven by growth in money market, demand, and regular savings.

Balance sheet expansion is critical to executing on our strategic priority of enhancing our return profile and efficiency by better leveraging our existing capital position, infrastructure and expense base.

Develop a high-performing, customer-centric organization and culture:In the midst of an evolving and challenging business environment, we are focused on delivering the best possible banking experience through our colleagues. As such, we strive to ensure that managers and colleagues are customer centric, have a commitment to excellence and live the values and credo every day. To further strengthen the organization’s health, we have embarked on initiatives focused on recruiting, talent management, succession planning, leadership development, organizational structure and incentives.






CITIZENS FINANCIAL GROUP, INC.BUSINESS



Continue to embed risk management throughout the organization and build strong relationships with regulators:We remain committed to embedding a comprehensive enterprise risk management program across key management areas.  We continued to strengthen our capabilities by fully developing policies and risk appetite, frameworks and standards, clearly articulating roles and responsibilities across all lines of defense, and enabling a culture that reinforces and rewards risk-based behaviors.

Focus on Improved Efficiency and Disciplined Expense Management:We believe that our focus on operational efficiency is critical to our profitability and ability to reinvest in the franchise. We launched an initiative in late2014designed to improve the effectiveness, efficiency, and competitiveness of the franchise (“Project Top”). Reflecting our ability to execute, Project Top has achieved approximately $200 million of run-rate expense savings by the end of 2015.  As part of our continuous improvement efforts, we began executing on the second phase of efficiency improvements as part of Project Top 2.  As part of Project Top 2, there are several efficiency initiatives that focus on improving our operations and better discipline around our third party spend.

Our strategic initiatives are focused on the fundamentals of growing customers, relationships, loans, deposits, total revenue and overall profitability. While the above priorities are designed to enhance performance over the long-term, successful execution to date has resulted in improved financial performance in2015, as highlighted below:

•Net income of $871 million in2015(excluding after-tax restructuring charges and special items of $31 million)  increased 10% compared to $790 million in 2014 (excluding a net $180 million after-tax gain related to the Chicago Divestiture and $105 million after-tax restructuring charges and special noninterest expense items);

•Net interest margin of 2.75% in 2015 was down eight basis points from 2014 due to the continued effect of the low interest rate environment;

•Credit quality continued to improve with net charge-offs declining to 0.30% of average loans in 2015 compared to 0.36% of average loans in 2014; and

•ROTCE (excluding restructuring charges and special items) of 6.69% in 2015 increased 56 basis points from 6.13% in 2014.

The adjusted results above are not recognized under GAAP. For more information on the computation of these non-GAAP financial measures, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Principal Components of Operations and Key Performance Metrics Used By Management — Key Performance Metrics and Non-GAAP Financial Measures” in Part II, Item 7, included elsewhere in this report.

Competition

The financial services industry in general and in our branch footprint is highly competitive. Our branch footprint is in the New England, Mid-Atlantic and Midwest regions, though certain lines of business serve broader, national markets. Within those markets we face competition from community banks, super-regional and national financial institutions, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies and money market funds. Some of our larger competitors may make available to their customers a broader array of product, pricing and structure alternatives while some smaller competitors may have more liberal lending policies and processes. Competition among providers of financial products and services continues to increase, with consumers having the opportunity to select from a growing variety of traditional and nontraditional alternatives. The ability of non-banking financial institutions to provide services previously limited to commercial banks has intensified competition.

In Consumer Banking, the industry has become increasingly dependent on and oriented towards technology-driven delivery systems, permitting transactions to be conducted by telephone and computer, as well as through online and mobile channels. In addition, technology has lowered the barriers to entry and made it possible for non-bank institutions to attract funds and provide lending and other financial services in our footprint despite not having a physical presence within our footprint. Given their lower cost structure, these institutions are often able to offer rates on deposit products that are higher than what may be average for the market for retail banking institutions with a traditional branch footprint, such as us. The primary factors driving competition for loans and deposits are interest rates, fees charged, customer service levels, convenience, including branch location and hours of operation, and the range of products and services offered. In particular, the competition for home equity lines and auto loans has intensified, resulting in pressure on pricing.

In Commercial Banking, there is intense competition for quality loan originations from traditional banking institutions, particularly large regional banks, as well as commercial finance companies, leasing companies and other non-bank lenders, and institutional investors including CLO managers, hedge funds and private equity firms. Some larger competitors, including certain national banks that have a significant presence in our market area, may offer a broader array of products and, due to their asset size, may sometimes be in a position to hold more exposure on their own balance sheet. We compete on a number of factors including, among others, customer service, quality of execution, range of products offered, price and reputation.






CITIZENS FINANCIAL GROUP, INC.BUSINESS



Intellectual Property

In the highly competitive banking industry in which we operate, trademarks, service marks, trade names and logos are important to the success of our business. We own and license a variety of trademarks, service marks, trade names, logos and pending registrations and are spending significant resources to develop our stand-alone brands. In connection with our initial public offering, we entered into a trademark license agreement, pursuant to which we were granted a limited license to use certain RBS trademarks (including the daisywheel logo) for an initial term of five years and, at our option, up to 10 years. The trademark license agreement was partially terminated in 2015, in connection with RBS’s exit of its ownership interest in our common stock.  As part of the partial termination, we were required to remove the “RBS” brand name from our products and services, which we completed in the third quarter of 2015. Under the agreement, we lose the right to use the “RBS” acronym in connection with the marketing of any product or service as we rebrand and cease using the RBS brand in connection with such product or service, subject to certain limited exceptions. We have changed the legal names of substantially all of our subsidiaries that included “RBS” and have rebranded CFG and our banking subsidiaries.

Information Technology Systems

We have recently made and continue to make significant investments in our information technology systems for our banking, lending and cash management activities. We believe this is a necessary investment in order to offer new products and improve our overall customer experiences, as well as to provide scale for future growth and acquisitions. The technology investments include replacing systems that support our branch tellers, commercial loans, automobile loans and treasury solutions. Additional investments that are in process include creating an enterprise data warehouse to capture and manage data to better understand our customers, identify our capital requirements and support regulatory reporting and a new mortgage system for our home lending solutions business.

Regulation and Supervision

Our operations are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination under federal and state law. These laws and regulations cover all aspects of our business, including lending practices, safeguarding deposits, customer privacy and information security, capital structure, transactions with affiliates and conduct and qualifications of personnel. These laws and regulations are intended primarily for the protection of depositors, the Deposit Insurance Fund and the banking system as a whole and not for the protection of shareholders and creditors.

The Dodd-Frank Act, and the rules that followed restructured the financial regulatory regime in the United States. The Dodd-Frank Act represents a significant overhaul of many aspects of the regulation of the financial services industry, addressing, among other things, systemic risk, capital adequacy, deposit insurance assessments, consumer financial protection, regulation of derivatives and securities markets, restrictions on an insured bank’s transactions with its affiliates, lending limits and mortgage-lending practices. Various provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act continue to require the issuance of implementing regulations, making it difficult to anticipate the ultimate overall impact to us, our subsidiaries or the financial industry more generally. Although the overall impact cannot be predicted with any degree of certainty, the Dodd-Frank Act will affect us across a wide range of areas.

As a general matter, the federal banking agencies (the FRB, the OCC and the FDIC) as well as the CFPB are taking a more stringent approach to supervising and regulating financial institutions and financial products and services over which they exercise their respective supervisory authorities, including in connection with enforcement matters. We, our two banking subsidiaries and our products and services are all subject to greater supervisory scrutiny and enhanced supervisory requirements and expectations and face significant challenges in meeting them. We expect to continue to face greater supervisory scrutiny and enhanced supervisory requirements for the foreseeable future.

General

CFG is a bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (“Bank Holding Company Act”). We have elected to be treated as a financial holding company under amendments to the Bank Holding Company Act as effected by GLBA. We are subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the FRB, including through the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston. The FRB serves as the primary regulator of our consolidated organization.

CBNA is a national banking association. As such, it is subject to regulation, examination and supervision by the OCC as its primary federal regulator and by the FDIC as the insurer of its deposits.

CBPA is a Pennsylvania-chartered savings bank. Accordingly, it is subject to supervision by the Department of Banking of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania (the “PA Banking Department”), as its chartering agency, and regulation, supervision and examination by the FDIC as the primary federal regulator of state-chartered savings banks and as the insurer of its deposits.

A principal objective of the U.S. bank regulatory system is to protect depositors by ensuring the financial safety and soundness of banks. To that end, the banking regulators have broad regulatory, examination and enforcement authority. The regulators regularly examine our operations, and CFG and our banking subsidiaries are subject to periodic reporting requirements.






CITIZENS FINANCIAL GROUP, INC.BUSINESS



The regulators have various remedies available if they determine that the financial condition, capital resources, asset quality, earnings prospects, management, liquidity or other aspects of a banking organization’s operations are unsatisfactory. The regulators may also take action if they determine that the banking organization or its management is violating or has violated any law or regulation. The regulators have the power to, among other things:

•Enjoin “unsafe or unsound” practices;

•Require affirmative actions to correct any violation or practice;

•Issue administrative orders that can be judicially enforced and could result in disqualifications from certain activities;

•Direct increases in capital;

•Direct the sale of subsidiaries or other assets;

•Limit dividends and distributions;

•Restrict growth;

•Assess civil monetary penalties and require restitution to injured parties;

•Remove officers and directors; and

•Terminate deposit insurance.

CBNA and CBPA are subject to various requirements and restrictions under federal and state law, including requirements to maintain reserves against deposits, restrictions on the types and amounts of loans that may be granted and the interest that may be charged and limitations on the types of investments that may be made, activities that may be engaged in, the opening and closing of branches and types of services that may be offered. The consumer lending and finance activities of CBNA and CBPA are also subject to extensive regulation under various federal and state laws. These statutes impose requirements on the making, enforcement and collection of consumer loans and on the types of disclosures that must be made in connection with such loans. CBNA and CBPA and certain of their subsidiaries are also prohibited from engaging in certain tie-in arrangements in connection with extensions of credit, leases or sales of property, or furnishing products or services.

In addition, CBNA and CBPA are subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the CFPB. The CFPB has broad authority to, among other things, regulate the offering and provision of consumer financial products by depository institutions with more than $10 billion in total assets. The CFPB may promulgate rules under a variety of consumer financial protection statutes, including the Truth in Lending Act, the Electronic Funds Transfer Act and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act.

Financial Holding Company Regulation

GLBA permits a qualifying bank holding company to become a financial holding company. Financial holding companies may engage in a broader range of activities than those permitted for a bank holding company, which are limited to (i) banking, managing or controlling banks, (ii) furnishing services to or performing services for subsidiaries and (iii) activities that the FRB has determined to be so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident thereto. GLBA broadens the scope of permissible activities for financial holding companies to include, among other things, securities underwriting and dealing, insurance underwriting and brokerage, merchant banking and other activities that are declared by the FRB, in cooperation with the Treasury Department, to be “financial in nature or incidental thereto” or that the FRB declares unilaterally to be “complementary” to financial activities. In addition, a financial holding company may conduct permissible new financial activities or acquire permissible non-bank financial companies with after-the-fact notice to the FRB.






CITIZENS FINANCIAL GROUP, INC.BUSINESS



On March 13, 2014, the OCC determined that CBNA no longer meets the condition to own a financial subsidiary - namely that CBNA must be both well capitalized and well managed. A financial subsidiary is permitted to engage in a broader range of activities, similar to those of a financial holding company, than those permissible for a national bank itself. CBNA has two financial subsidiaries, Citizens Securities, Inc., a registered broker-dealer, and RBS Citizens Insurance Agency, Inc., a dormant entity. CBNA has entered into an agreement with the OCC (the “OCC Agreement”) pursuant to which the Company has developed and submitted to the OCC a remediation plan, that sets forth the specific actions it will take to bring itself back into compliance with the conditions to own a financial subsidiary. CBNA has made substantial progress toward completing those actions. However, until the plan has been completed to the OCC’s satisfaction, CBNA will be subject to restrictions on its ability to acquire control or hold an interest in any new financial subsidiary and to commence new activities in any existing financial subsidiary without the prior consent of the OCC.

Separately, our bank subsidiaries, either together or separately, are also making improvements to their compliance management systems, fair lending compliance, risk management, identity theft and debt cancellation add-on product  practices, overdraft fees and deposit reconciliation practices, mortgage servicing, third-party payment processor activities, oversight of third-party providers, consumer compliance program, policies, procedures and training, information security, consumer complaints process and anti-money laundering controls in order to address deficiencies in those areas. These efforts require us to make investments in additional resources and systems and also require a significant commitment of managerial time and attention.

We are also required to make improvements to our overall compliance and operational risk management programs and practices in order to comply with enhanced supervisory requirements and expectations and to address weaknesses in retail credit risk management, liquidity risk management, model risk management, outsourcing and vendor risk management and related oversight and monitoring practices and tools.

Currently, under the Bank Holding Company Act, we may not be able to engage in certain categories of new activities or acquire shares or control of other companies other than in connection with internal reorganizations.

Standards for Safety and Soundness

The FDIA requires the FRB, OCC and FDIC to prescribe operational and managerial standards for all insured depository institutions, including CBNA and CBPA. The agencies have adopted regulations and interagency guidelines which set forth the safety and soundness standards used to identify and address problems at insured depository institutions before capital becomes impaired. If an agency determines that a bank fails to satisfy any standard, it may require the bank to submit an acceptable plan to achieve compliance, consistent with deadlines for the submission and review of such safety and soundness compliance plans.

Under Section 616 of the Dodd-Frank Act, which codifies the FRB’s long-standing “source of strength” doctrine, any bank holding company that controls an insured depository institution must serve as a source of financial and managerial strength for its depository institution subsidiary. The statute defines “source of financial strength” as the ability to provide financial assistance in the event of the financial distress at the insured depository institution. The FRB may require a bank holding company to provide such support at times when it may not have the financial resources to do so or when doing so is not otherwise in the interests of CFG or its shareholders or creditors.

CBPA is also subject to supervision by the PA Banking Department. The PA Banking Department may order any Pennsylvania-chartered savings bank to discontinue any violation of law or unsafe or unsound business practice. It may also order the termination of any trustee, officer, attorney or employee of a savings bank engaged in objectionable activity.

Dividends

Various federal and state statutory provisions and regulations, as well as regulatory expectations, limit the amount of dividends that we and our subsidiaries may pay. Dividends payable by CBNA, as a national bank subsidiary, are limited to the lesser of the amount calculated under a “recent earnings” test and an “undivided profits” test. Under the recent earnings test, a dividend may not be paid if the total of all dividends declared by a bank in any calendar year is in excess of the current year’s net income combined with the retained net income of the two preceding years, less any required transfers to surplus, unless the national bank obtains the approval of the OCC. Under the undivided profits test, a dividend may be paid only to the extent that retained net profits (as defined and interpreted by regulation), including the portion transferred to surplus, exceed bad debts (as defined by regulation). CBNA is currently required to seek the OCC’s approval prior to paying any dividends to us. Federal bank regulatory agencies have issued policy statements which provide that FDIC-insured depository institutions and their holding companies should generally pay dividends only out of their current operating earnings. Under Pennsylvania law, CBPA may declare and pay dividends only out of accumulated net earnings and only if (i) any required transfer to surplus has been made prior to declaration of the dividend and (ii) payment of the dividend will not reduce surplus.

Furthermore, with respect to both CBNA and CBPA, if, in the opinion of the applicable federal regulatory agency, either is engaged in or is about to engage in an unsafe or unsound practice (which, depending on the financial condition of the bank, could include the payment of dividends), the regulator may require, after notice and hearing, that such bank cease and desist from






CITIZENS FINANCIAL GROUP, INC.BUSINESS



such practice. The OCC and the FDIC have indicated that the payment of dividends would constitute an unsafe and unsound practice if the payment would reduce a depository institution’s capital to an inadequate level. The banking agencies have significant discretion to limit or even preclude dividends, even if the statutory quantitative thresholds are satisfied.

Supervisory stress tests conducted by the FRB in connection with its annual CCAR process, discussed in greater detail below, affect our ability to make capital distributions. As part of the CCAR process, the FRB evaluates institutions’ capital adequacy and internal capital adequacy assessment processes to ensure that they have sufficient capital to continue operations during periods of economic and financial stress. The FRB must approve any planned distribution of capital in connection with the CCAR process.

In March 2015, the FRBG assessed our current capital plan as submitted and documented under the CCAR process and raised no objection to the plan. Unless we choose to file an amended capital plan prior to April 2016, the maximum levels at which we may declare dividends and repurchase shares of our common stock through June 30, 2016 are governed by our 2015 capital plan, subject to actual financial performance and ongoing compliance with internal governance and all other regulatory requirements. The payment of dividends after June 30, 2016 will be subject to FRB objection or non-objection to our 2016 capital plan to be filed by April 5, 2016.

In addition, under the U.S. Basel III capital framework (described further below), the ability of banks and bank holding companies to pay dividends and make other forms of capital distribution will also depend on their ability to maintain a sufficient capital conservation buffer above minimum risk-based ratio requirements that is composed entirely of CET1 capital. The capital conservation buffer requirements began phasing in on January 1, 2016. The ability of banks and bank holding companies to pay dividends, and the contents of their respective dividend policies, could be impacted by a range of regulatory changes made pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, many of which still require final implementing rules to become effective. In addition, the FRB generally limits a bank holding company’s ability to make quarterly capital distributions — that is, dividends and share repurchases — commencing April 1, 2015 if the amount of the bank’s actual cumulative quarterly capital issuances of instruments that qualify as regulatory capital are less than the bank had indicated in its submitted capital plan as to which it received a non-objection from the FRB, subject to certain qualifications and exceptions.

Federal Deposit Insurance Act

The FDIA imposes various requirements on insured depository institutions. For example, the FDIA requires, among other things, that the federal banking agencies take “prompt corrective action” in respect of depository institutions that do not meet minimum capital requirements, which are described below in “Capital.” The FDIA sets forth the following five capital tiers: “well-capitalized,” “adequately capitalized,” “undercapitalized,” “significantly undercapitalized” and “critically undercapitalized.” A depository institution’s capital tier will depend upon how its capital levels compare with various relevant capital measures and certain other factors that are established by regulation.

The FDIA prohibits any depository institution from making any capital distributions (including payment of a dividend) or paying any management fee to its parent holding company if the depository institution would thereafter be “undercapitalized.” “Undercapitalized” institutions are subject to growth limitations and are required to submit a capital restoration plan. For a capital restoration plan to be acceptable, among other things, the depository institution’s parent holding company must guarantee that the institution will comply with the capital restoration plan. If a depository institution fails to submit an acceptable capital restoration plan, it is treated as if it is “significantly undercapitalized.” “Significantly undercapitalized” depository institutions may be subject to a number of requirements and restrictions, including orders to sell sufficient voting stock to become “adequately capitalized,” orders to elect a new board of directors, requirements to reduce total assets and cessation of receipt of deposits from correspondent banks. “Critically undercapitalized” institutions are subject to the appointment of a receiver or conservator.

The FDIA prohibits insured banks from accepting brokered deposits or offering interest rates on any deposits significantly higher than the prevailing rate in the bank’s normal market area or nationally (depending upon where the deposits are solicited), unless it is “well-capitalized,” or it is “adequately capitalized” and receives a waiver from the FDIC. A bank that is “adequately capitalized” and that accepts brokered deposits under a waiver from the FDIC may not pay an interest rate on any deposit in excess of 75 basis points over certain prevailing market rates. The FDIA imposes no such restrictions on a bank that is “well-capitalized.”

The FDIA requires CBNA and CBPA to pay deposit insurance assessments. Deposit insurance assessments are based on average consolidated total assets, less average tangible equity and various other regulatory factors included in an FDIC assessment scorecard. Deposit insurance assessments are also affected by the minimum reserve ratio with respect to the DIF. The minimum reserve ratio is currently 2%, and the FDIC is free to increase this ratio in the future. In October 2015, the FDIC issued a proposed rule that would increase the reserve ratio for the Deposit Insurance Fund to 1.35% of total insured deposits. The proposed rule would impose a surcharge on the assessments of larger depository institutions, beginning the quarter after the reserve ratio first reaches or exceeds 1.15% and continuing through the earlier of the quarter that the reserve ratio first reaches or exceeds 1.35% and December 31, 2018. Under the proposed rule, if the reserve ratio does not reach 1.35% by December 31, 2018, the FDIC would impose a shortfall assessment on larger depository institutions. This may result in increased costs for CBNA and CBPA.






CITIZENS FINANCIAL GROUP, INC.BUSINESS



Because of the uncertainty as to the outcome of the FDIC's proposals, we cannot provide any assurance as to the ultimate impact of any surcharges on the amount of deposit insurance expense reported in future periods.

Under the FDIA, banks may also be held liable by the FDIC for certain losses incurred, or reasonably expected to be incurred, by the DIF. Either CBNA and CBPA may be liable for losses caused by the other’s default and also may be liable for any assistance provided by the FDIC to the other if it is in danger of default.

Capital

We must comply with capital adequacy standards established by the FRB. CBNA and CBPA must comply with similar capital adequacy standards established by the OCC and FDIC, respectively. We currently have capital in excess of the “well-capitalized” standards described below. For more detail on our regulatory capital, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Capital” in Part II, Item 7, included elsewhere in this report.

In July 2013, the FRB, OCC and FDIC issued the U.S. Basel III final rules. The rules implement the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision’s Basel III capital framework and certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, including the Collins Amendment. The U.S. Basel III final rules substantially revised the risk-based capital and leverage requirements applicable to bank holding companies and their insured depository institution subsidiaries, including CBNA and CBPA.   The U.S. Basel III final rules became effective for CFG and its depository institution subsidiaries, including CBNA and CBPA, on January 1, 2015 (subject to a phase-in period for certain provisions).

The U.S. Basel III final rules, among other things, (i) introduced a new capital measure called CET1, (ii) specify that Tier 1 capital consists of CET1 and “Additional Tier 1 capital” instruments meeting certain revised requirements, (iii) define CET1 narrowly by requiring that most deductions/adjustments to regulatory capital measures be made to CET1 and not to the other components of capital, and (iv) expand the scope of the deductions/ adjustments to capital as compared to existing regulations.  Under the U.S. Basel III final rules, the minimum capital ratios effective as of January 1, 2015 are:

•4.5% CET1 to risk-weighted assets;

•6.0% Tier 1 capital (that is, CET1 plus Additional Tier 1 capital) to risk-weighted assets;

•8.0% Total capital (that is, Tier 1 capital plus Tier 2 capital) to risk-weighted assets; and

•4.0% Tier 1 capital to average consolidated assets as reported on consolidated financial statements (known as the “leverage ratio”).

The U.S. Basel III final rules also introduced a new “capital conservation buffer”, composed entirely of CET1, on top of these minimum risk-weighted asset ratios. The implementation of the capital conservation buffer began on January 1, 2016 at the 0.625% level and will increase by 0.625% on each subsequent January 1, until it reaches 2.5% on January 1, 2019. Banking institutions with a ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets below the effective minimum (4.5% plus the capital conservation buffer and, if applicable, the countercyclical capital buffer) will face constraints on dividends, equity repurchases and compensation based on the amount of the shortfall.

When fully phased in on January 1, 2019, the U.S. Basel III final rules will require CFG, CBNA and CBPA to maintain an additional capital conservation buffer of 2.5% of CET1, effectively resulting in minimum ratios of (i) CET1 to risk-weighted assets of at least 7%, (ii) Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 8.5%, (iii) a minimum ratio of Total capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 10.5%; and (iv) a minimum leverage ratio of 4%.

The U.S. Basel III final rules also provide for a number of deductions from and adjustments to CET1. These include, for example, the requirement that certain deferred tax assets and significant investments in non-consolidated financial entities be deducted from CET1 to the extent that any one such category exceeds 10% of CET1 or all such items, in the aggregate, exceed 15% of CET1. Implementation of the deductions and other adjustments to CET1 began on January 1, 2015 and will be phased-in over a 4-year period (beginning at 40% on January 1, 2015 and an additional 20% per year thereafter).

The U.S. Basel III final rules prescribe a standardized approach for risk weightings that expanded the risk-weighting categories from the general risk-based capital rules to a much larger and more risk-sensitive number of categories, depending on the nature of the assets, generally ranging from 0% for U.S. government and agency securities, to 600% for certain equity exposures, and resulting in higher risk weights for a variety of asset categories.

With respect to CBNA and CBPA, the U.S. Basel III final rules also revise the “prompt corrective action” regulations pursuant to Section 38 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, as discussed above in “Federal Deposit Insurance Act.”

Liquidity Standards

Historically, the FRB had evaluated our liquidity as part of the supervisory process, without required formulaic measures. Liquidity risk management and supervision have become increasingly important since the financial crisis. In September 2014, the FRB, OCC and FDIC issued a final rule to implement the Basel III-based U.S. LCR, which is a quantitative liquidity metric






CITIZENS FINANCIAL GROUP, INC.BUSINESS



The Basel Committee also has finalized its NSFR, a quantitative liquidity metric designed to promote more medium- and long-term funding of the assets and activities of banks over a one-year time horizon. Although the Basel committee finalized its formulation of the NSFR in 2014 contemplating a January 1, 2018 effective date, the U.S. banking agencies have not yet proposed an NSFR for application to U.S. banking organizations or addressed the scope of banking organizations to which it will apply.

In addition, under the Dodd-Frank Act, the FRB has implemented enhanced prudential standards for bank holding companies with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets. See “—Enhanced Prudential Standards.” These regulations will require us to conduct regular liquidity stress testing over various time horizons and to maintain a buffer of higher liquid assets sufficient to cover expected net cash outflows and projected loss or impairment of funding sources for a short-term liquidity stress scenario. This liquidity buffer requirement is designed to complement the Basel III-based U.S. LCR.

Capital Planning and Stress Testing Requirements

Bank holding companies with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets, such as CFG, are required to develop and maintain a capital plan, and to submit the capital plan to the FRB for review under its CCAR process. CCAR is designed to evaluate the capital adequacy, capital adequacy process and planned capital distributions, such as dividend payments and common stock repurchases, of a bank holding company subject to CCAR. As part of CCAR, the FRB evaluates whether a bank holding company has sufficient capital to continue operations under various scenarios of economic and financial market stress (both bank holding company- and FRB- developed, including an “adverse” and “severely adverse” stress scenario developed by the Federal Reserve). The FRB will also evaluate whether the bank holding company has robust, forward-looking capital planning processes that account for its unique risks.

The capital plan must cover a “planning horizon” of at least nine quarters (beginning with the quarter preceding the submission of the plan). The FRB has broad authority to object to capital plans, and to require bank holding companies to revise and resubmit their capital plans. Bank holding companies are also subject to an ongoing requirement to revise and resubmit their capital plans upon the occurrence of certain events specified by rule, or when required by the FRB. In addition to other limitations, our ability to make any capital distributions (including dividends and share repurchases) is contingent on the FRB’s non-objection to our capital plan under both quantitative and qualitative tests. Should the FRB object to a capital plan, a bank holding company may not make any capital distribution other than those capital distributions that the FRB has indicated non-objection to in writing. Beginning in 2016, participating firms are required to submit their capital plans and stress testing results to the FRB on or before April 5 of each year, instead of on or before January 5 of each year under the prior rules.

The FRB is expected to publish the decisions for all the bank holding companies participating in CCAR 2016, including the reasons for any objection to capital plans, by June 30, 2016. In addition, the Federal Reserve will separately publish the results of its supervisory stress test under both the supervisory severely adverse and adverse scenarios. The information to be released will include, among other things, the FRB’s projection of company-specific information, including post-stress capital ratios and the minimum value of these ratios over the planning horizon.

The FRB recently amended its capital planning and stress testing rules to, among other things, generally limit our ability to make quarterly capital distributions - that is, dividends and share repurchases - commencing July 1, 2016 if the amount of our actual cumulative quarterly capital issuances of instruments that qualify as regulatory capital are less than we had indicated in our submitted capital plan as to which we receive a non-objection from the FRB.

Due to the importance and intensity of the stress tests and the CCAR process, we have dedicated significant resources to comply with stress testing and capital planning requirements and expect to continue to do so in the future.






CITIZENS FINANCIAL GROUP, INC.BUSINESS



Final Regulations Under the Volcker Rule

Resolution Plans

FRB and FDIC regulations require a bank holding company with more than $50 billion in assets to annually submit a resolution plan that explains the company’s strategy, in the event of material financial distress or failure, for rapid, orderly and systemically safe resolution. If the FRB and the FDIC jointly determine that the resolution plan of a bank holding company is not credible, and the company fails to cure the deficiencies in a timely manner, then the FRB and the FDIC may jointly impose on the company, or on any of its subsidiaries, more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements or restrictions on growth, activities or operations, or require the divestment of certain assets or operations. Because RBS no longer controls us for bank regulatory purposes, we will separately file our own bank holding company resolution plan with the FRB and FDIC in accordance with their regulations, including required timelines.

In addition, an insured depository institution with more than $50 billion in assets, including CBNA, must submit to the FDIC a resolution plan that explains how that institution could be resolved in a manner that is orderly and that ensures that depositors will receive access to insured funds within certain required timeframes. On December 23, 2015, we submitted our resolution plan for CBNA to the FDIC.

Enhanced Prudential Standards

The Dodd-Frank Act requires the FRB to impose liquidity, single counterparty credit limits, risk management and other enhanced prudential standards for bank holding companies with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets, including us. Since January 1, 2015, the enhanced prudential standards implemented by the FRB, have required subject bank holding companies to comply with enhanced liquidity and overall risk management standards and maintain a liquidity buffer of unencumbered highly liquid assets based on the results of internal liquidity stress testing. The final rules also established certain requirements and responsibilities for our risk committee and mandates certain risk management standards. Although the liquidity buffer under these rules has some similarities to the LCR (and is described by the agencies as complementary to the LCR), it is a separate requirement that is in addition to the LCR. Final rules on single counterparty credit limits and an early remediation framework have not yet been promulgated.

Heightened Risk Governance Standards

In September 2014, the OCC finalized guidelines that establish heightened standards for large national banks with average total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, including CBNA. The guidelines set forth minimum standards for the design and implementation of a bank’s risk governance framework, and minimum standards for oversight of that framework by a bank’s board of directors. The guidelines are an extension of the OCC’s “heightened expectations” for large banks that the OCC began informally communicating to certain banks in 2010. The guidelines are intended to protect the safety and soundness of covered banks and improve bank examiners’ ability to assess compliance with the OCC’s expectations. Under the guidelines, a bank could use certain components of its parent company’s risk governance framework, but the framework must ensure that the bank’s risk profile is easily distinguished and separate from the parent for risk management and supervisory purposes. A bank’s board of directors is required to have two members who are independent of the bank and parent company management. A bank’s board of directors is responsible for ensuring that the risk governance framework meets the standards in the guidelines, providing active oversight and a credible challenge to management’s recommendations and decisions and ensuring that the parent company decisions do not jeopardize the safety and soundness of the bank.

Protection of Customer Personal Information and Cybersecurity

The privacy provisions of GLBA generally prohibit financial institutions, including us, from disclosing nonpublic personal financial information of consumer customers to third parties for certain purposes (primarily marketing) unless customers have the






CITIZENS FINANCIAL GROUP, INC.BUSINESS



opportunity to opt out of the disclosure. The Fair Credit Reporting Act restricts information sharing among affiliates for marketing purposes. Both the Fair Credit Reporting Act and Regulation V, issued by the FRB, govern the use and provision of information to consumer reporting agencies.

In March 2015, federal regulators issued two related statements regarding cybersecurity. One statement indicates that financial institutions should design multiple layers of security controls to establish lines of defense and to ensure that their risk management processes also address the risk posed by compromised customer credentials, including security measures to reliably authenticate customers accessing Internet-based services of the financial institution. The other statement indicates that a financial institution’s management is expected to maintain sufficient business continuity planning processes to ensure the rapid recovery, resumption and maintenance of the institution’s operations after a cyber attack involving destructive malware. A financial institution is also expected to develop appropriate processes to enable recovery of data and business operations and address rebuilding network capabilities and restoring data if the institution or its critical service providers fall victim to this type of cyber attack. If we fail to observe the regulatory guidance, we could be subject to various regulatory sanctions, including financial penalties. See Item 1A. Risk Factors for a further discussion of risks related to cybersecurity.

Anti-Tying Restrictions

Generally, a bank may not extend credit, lease, sell property or furnish any services or fix or vary the consideration for them on the condition that (1) the customer obtain or provide some additional credit, property or services from or to that bank or its bank holding company or their subsidiaries or (2) the customer not obtain some other credit, property or services from a competitor, except to the extent reasonable conditions are imposed to assure the soundness of the credit extended. A bank may, however, offer combined-balance products and may otherwise offer more favorable terms if a customer obtains two or more traditional bank products. Certain foreign transactions are exempt from the general rule.

Community Reinvestment Act Requirements

The CRA requires the banking agencies to evaluate the record of us and our banking subsidiaries in meeting the credit needs of our local communities, including low and moderate income neighborhoods. The CRA requires each appropriate federal bank regulatory agency, in connection with its examination of a depository institution, to assess such institution’s record in assessing and meeting the credit needs of the community served by that institution and assign ratings. The regulatory agency’s assessment of the institution’s record is made available to the public. These evaluations are also considered in evaluating mergers, acquisitions and applications to open a branch or facility and, in the case of a bank holding company that has elected financial holding company status, a CRA rating of “satisfactory” is required to commence certain new financial activities or to acquire a company engaged in such activities. We received a rating of “satisfactory” in our most-recent CRA evaluation.

Rules Affecting Debit Card Interchange Fees

Interchange fees, or “swipe” fees, are charges that merchants pay to us and other card-issuing banks for processing electronic payment transactions.FRB rules applicable to financial institutions that have assets of $10 billion or more provide that the maximum permissible interchange fee for an electronic debit transaction is the sum of 21 cents per transaction and 5 basis points multiplied by the value of the transaction. An upward adjustment of no more than 1 cent to an issuer’s debit card interchange fee is allowed if the card issuer develops and implements policies and procedures reasonably designed to achieve certain fraud-prevention standards.

Consumer Financial Protection Regulations

The retail activities of banks are subject to a variety of statutes and regulations designed to protect consumers. Loan operations are also subject to federal laws applicable to credit transactions, such as:

•Federal Truth-In-Lending Act and Regulation Z issued by the CFPB, governing disclosures of credit terms to consumer borrowers;

•Home Mortgage Disclosure Act and Regulation C issued by the CFPB, requiring financial institutions to provide information to enable the public and public officials to determine whether a financial institution is fulfilling its obligation to help meet the housing needs of the community it serves;

•Equal Credit Opportunity Act and Regulation B issued by the CFPB, prohibiting discrimination on the basis of various prohibited factors in extending credit;

•Fair Debt Collection Act, governing the manner in which consumer debts may be collected by collection agencies; and

•Service Members Civil Relief Act, applying to all debts incurred prior to commencement of active military service (including credit card and other open-end debt) and limiting the amount of interest, including service and renewal charges and any other fees or charges (other than bona fide insurance) that is related to the obligation or liability.

Deposit operations also are subject to, among others:






CITIZENS FINANCIAL GROUP, INC.BUSINESS



•Truth in Savings Act and Regulation DD issued by the CFPB, which require disclosure of deposit terms to consumers;

•Expected Funds Availability Act and Regulation CC issued by the FRB, which relates to the availability of deposit funds to consumers;

•Right to Financial Privacy Act, which imposes a duty to maintain the confidentiality of consumer financial records and prescribes procedures for complying with administrative subpoenas of financial records; and

•Electronic Funds Transfer Act and Regulation E issued by the CFPB, which governs automatic deposits to and withdrawals from deposit accounts and consumer rights and liabilities arising from the use of automated teller machines and other electronic banking services.

In addition to these federal laws and regulations, the guidance and interpretations of the various federal agencies charged with the responsibility of implementing such regulations also influences loan and deposit operations.

In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act provides the CFPB with broad supervisory, examination and enforcement authority over various consumer financial products and services, including the ability to require reimbursements and other payments to customers for alleged legal violations and to impose significant penalties, as well as injunctive relief that prohibits lenders from engaging in allegedly unlawful practices. The CFPB also has the authority to obtain cease and desist orders providing for affirmative relief and/or monetary penalties. The Dodd-Frank Act and accompanying regulations, including regulations to be promulgated by the CFPB, are being phased in over time. Although some regulations have been promulgated, many others have not yet been proposed or finalized. For example, the CFPB announced that it is considering new rules regarding debt collection practices, and has proposed new regulations of prepaid accounts and proposed amendments to its regulations implementing the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act. We cannot predict the terms of all of the final regulations, their intended consequences or how such regulations will affect us or our industry.

The Dodd-Frank Act permits states to adopt stricter consumer protection laws and standards that are more stringent than those adopted at the federal level and, in certain circumstances, permits state attorneys general to enforce compliance with both the state and federal laws and regulations. State regulation of financial products and potential enforcement actions could also adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

The CFPB has finalized a number of significant rules which will impact nearly every aspect of the life cycle of a residential mortgage. The final rules require banks to, among other things: (i) develop and implement procedures to ensure compliance with a new “ability to repay” standard and identify whether a loan meets a new definition for a “qualified mortgage;” (ii) implement new or revised disclosures, policies and procedures for servicing mortgages including, but not limited to, early intervention with delinquent borrowers and specific loss mitigation procedures for loans secured by a borrower’s principal residence; (iii) comply with additional restrictions on mortgage loan originator compensation; and (iv) comply with new disclosure requirements and standards for appraisals and escrow accounts maintained for “higher priced mortgage loans.” These new rules create operational and strategic challenges for us, as we are both a mortgage originator and a servicer. Additional rulemaking affecting the residential mortgage business is also expected. These rules and any other new regulatory requirements promulgated by the CFPB and other federal or state regulators could require changes to our business, result in increased compliance costs and affect the streams of revenue of such business.

In addition, our two banking subsidiaries are currently subject to consent orders issued by the OCC and the FDIC in connection with their findings of deceptive marketing and implementation of some of our checking account and funds transfer products and services. Among other things, the consent orders require us to remedy deficiencies and develop stronger compliance controls, policies and procedures. We have made progress and continue to make progress in addressing these requirements, but the consent orders remain in place and we are unable to predict when they may be terminated.






CITIZENS FINANCIAL GROUP, INC.BUSINESS



Commercial Real Estate Lending

Lending operations that involve concentrations of commercial real estate loans are subject to enhanced scrutiny by federal banking regulators. Regulators have advised financial institutions of the risks posed by commercial real estate lending concentrations. Such loans generally include land development, construction loans and loans secured by multifamily property and nonfarm, nonresidential real property where the primary source of repayment is derived from rental income associated with the property. The relevant regulatory guidance prescribes the following guidelines for examiners to help identify institutions that are potentially exposed to concentration risk and may warrant greater supervisory scrutiny:

•Total reported loans for construction, land development and other land represent 100% or more of the institution’s total capital, or

•Total commercial real estate loans represent 300% or more of the institution’s total capital, and the outstanding balance of the institution’s commercial real estate loan portfolio has increased by 50% or more during the prior 36 months.

In 2009, the federal banking regulators issued additional guidance on commercial real estate lending that emphasizes these considerations.

In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act contains provisions that may cause us to reduce the amount of our commercial real estate lending and increase the cost of borrowing, including rules relating to risk retention of securitized assets. Section 941 of the Dodd-Frank Act requires, among other things, a loan originator or a securitizer of asset-backed securities to retain a percentage of the credit risk of securitized assets. The banking agencies and other federal agencies have jointly promulgated a final rule to implement these requirements.

Transactions with Affiliates and Insiders

Section 23B prohibits an institution from engaging in certain transactions with affiliates unless the transactions are on terms substantially the same, or at least as favorable to the bank, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with non-affiliated companies. Except for limitations on low-quality asset purchases and transactions that are deemed to be unsafe or unsound, Regulation W generally excludes affiliated depository institutions from treatment as affiliates. Transactions between a bank and any of its subsidiaries that are engaged in certain financial activities may be subject to the affiliated transaction limits. The FRB also may designate banking subsidiaries as affiliates.

Pursuant to FRB Regulation O, we are also subject to quantitative restrictions on extensions of credit to executive officers, directors, principal stockholders and their related interests. In general, such extensions of credit (i) may not exceed certain dollar limitations, (ii) must be made on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and collateral, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with third parties and (iii) must not involve more than the normal risk of repayment or present other unfavorable features. Certain extensions of credit also require the approval of our Board.

Anti-Money Laundering

The USA PATRIOT Act, enacted in 2001 and renewed in 2006, substantially broadened the scope of U.S. anti-money laundering laws and regulations by imposing significant new compliance and due diligence obligations, creating new crimes and penalties and expanding the extra-territorial jurisdiction of the United States. Institutions must maintain anti-money laundering programs that include established internal policies, procedures and controls; a designated compliance officer; an ongoing employee training program; and testing of the program by an independent audit function. We are prohibited from entering into specified financial transactions and account relationships and must meet enhanced standards for due diligence in dealings with foreign financial institutions and foreign customers. We also must take reasonable steps to conduct enhanced scrutiny of account relationships to guard against money laundering and to report any suspicious transactions. Recent laws provide law enforcement authorities with increased access to financial information maintained by banks.






CITIZENS FINANCIAL GROUP, INC.BUSINESS



The USA PATRIOT Act also provides for the facilitation of information sharing among governmental entities and financial institutions for the purpose of combating terrorism and money laundering. The statute also creates enhanced information collection tools and enforcement mechanics for the U.S. government, including: (i) requiring standards for verifying customer identification at account opening; (ii) promulgating rules to promote cooperation among financial institutions, regulators and law enforcement entities in identifying parties that may be involved in terrorism or money laundering; (iii) requiring reports by non-financial trades and businesses filed with the Treasury’s Financial Crimes Enforcement Network for transactions exceeding $10,000; and (iv) mandating the filing of suspicious activities reports if a bank believes a customer may be violating U.S. laws and regulations. The statute also requires enhanced due diligence requirements for financial institutions that administer, maintain or manage private bank accounts or correspondent accounts for non-U.S. persons. Bank regulators routinely examine institutions for compliance with these obligations and are required to consider compliance in connection with the regulatory review of applications.

In addition, the Federal Bureau of Investigation may send bank regulatory agencies lists of the names of persons suspected of involvement in terrorist activities. We can be requested to search our records for any relationships or transactions with persons on those lists and may be required to report any identified relationships or transactions.

Office of Foreign Assets Control Regulation

OFAC is responsible for helping to ensure that U.S. entities do not engage in transactions with certain prohibited parties, as defined by various Executive Orders and Acts of Congress. OFAC publishes, and routinely updates, lists of names of persons and organizations suspected of aiding, harboring or engaging in terrorist acts, including the Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons. We are responsible for, among other things, blocking accounts of, and transactions with, such targets and countries, prohibiting unlicensed trade and financial transactions with them and reporting blocked transactions after their occurrence. If we find a name on any transaction, account or wire transfer that is on an OFAC list, we must freeze such account, file a suspicious activity report and notify the appropriate authorities. Failure to comply with these sanctions could have serious legal and reputational consequences.

Other Regulatory Matters

We and our subsidiaries and affiliates are subject to numerous examinations by federal and state banking regulators, as well as the SEC, the FINRA and various state insurance and securities regulators. In some cases, regulatory agencies may take supervisory actions that may not be publicly disclosed, and such actions may restrict or limit our activities or activities of our subsidiaries. As part of our regular examination process, our and our banking subsidiaries’ respective regulators may advise us or our banking subsidiaries to operate under various restrictions as a prudential matter. We and our subsidiaries have from time to time received requests for information from regulatory authorities at the federal and state level, including from state insurance commissions, state attorneys general, federal agencies or law enforcement authorities, securities regulators and other regulatory authorities, concerning their business practices. Such requests are considered incidental to the normal conduct of business.

Employees

As ofDecember 31, 2015, we had approximately17,700FTEs, which included our approximately 17,100 full-time colleagues,300part-time colleagues and approximately300positions filled by temporary employees. None of our employees are parties to a collective bargaining agreement. We consider our relationship with our employees to be good and have not experienced interruptions of operations due to labor disagreements.








CITIZENS FINANCIAL GROUP, INC.RISK FACTORS



