ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS

General Risk Factors

An investment in our common stock or debt securities involves risks and uncertainties. You should consider the following factors carefully, in
addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, before deciding to purchase or otherwise trade our securities.

This Form
10-K and other written reports and oral statements made from time to time by the Company contain statements which, to the extent they are not recitations of historical fact, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal
securities law. Investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and are based on assumptions that the Company believes in good faith are reasonable, but which may be materially different from actual
results. Investors can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate only to historic or current facts. The words “may,” “will,” “could,” “should,” “anticipate,” “believe,”
“estimate,” “expect,” “forecast,” “intend,” “outlook,” “plan,” “project,” “scheduled,” and similar expressions in connection with future events or future operating or
financial performance are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Any or all of the Company’s forward-looking statements in this Form10-Kand in other publications may turn out to be wrong.

Statements and assumptions on future revenues, income and cash flows, performance, economic trends, the outcome of litigation, regulatory
compliance, and environmental remediation cost estimates are examples of forward-looking statements. Numerous factors, including potentially the risk factors described in this section, could affect our forward-looking statements and actual
performance.

Investors are also cautioned that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, the reader
should not consider any such list to be a complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties. Other factors besides those listed may also adversely affect the Company and may be material to the Company. The Company has listed the known
material risks it considers relevant in evaluating the Company and its operations. The forward-looking statements in this document are intended to be subject to the safe harbor protection provided by Sections 27A and 21E of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements are made as of the date hereof based on management’s current expectations, and the Company does not undertake an obligation to update such statements, whether as a result of new information, future
events, or otherwise.

For a discussion identifying some important factors that could cause actual results to vary materially from those
anticipated in the forward-looking statements, see the factors listed below, along with the discussion of “Competition” under Item 1 of this Form 10-K, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations” under Item 7 of this Form 10-K and the 2015 Annual Report, and “Note A: Accounting Policies” and “Note N: Commitments and Contingencies” of the “Notes to Financial Statements” of the 2015
Financial Statements included under Item 8 of this Form 10-K and the 2015 Annual Report.







Our business is cyclical and depends on activity within the construction industry.

Economic and political uncertainty can impede growth in the markets in which we operate. Demand for our products, particularly in the
nonresidential and residential construction markets, could fall if companies and consumers are unable to get credit for construction projects or if an economic slowdown causes delays or cancellations of capital projects. State and federal budget
issues may also hurt the funding available for infrastructure spending. The lack of available credit may limit the ability of states to issue bonds to finance construction projects. Several of our top sales states, from time-to-time, stop or slow
bidding projects in their transportation departments.

We sell most of our aggregate products, our primary business, and our cement
products, to the construction industry, so our results depend on the strength of the construction industry. Since our businesses depend on construction spending, which can be cyclical, our profits are sensitive to national, regional, and local
economic conditions and the intensity of the underlying spending on aggregates and cement products. During the past few years, the overall economy was hurt by mortgage security losses and the tightening credit markets. Construction spending was
affected by economic conditions, changes in interest rates, demographic and population shifts, and changes in construction spending by federal, state, and local governments. If economic conditions change, a recession in the construction industry may
occur and affect the demand for our products. The recent economic recession was an example, and our business was hurt. Construction spending can also be disrupted by terrorist activity and armed conflicts.

While our business operations cover a wide geographic area, our earnings depend on the strength of the local economies in which we operate
because of the high cost to transport our products relative to their price. If economic conditions and construction spending decline significantly in one or more areas, particularly in our top five sales-generating states of our Aggregates business
(based on net sales by state of destination) of Texas, Colorado, North Carolina, Iowa, and Georgia, our profitability will decrease. We experienced this situation with the recent economic recession.

The historic economic recession resulted in large declines in shipments of aggregate products in our industry. Recent years, however, have
shown a turnaround in this trend. For the last four years, our aggregates shipments have increased, reflecting a certain degree of volume stability and modest growth. Prior to 2010, use of aggregate products in the United States had declined almost
40% from the highest volume in 2006. During 2015 our heritage aggregates shipments showed 2.1% improvement compared with 2014 levels, after a 7.5% increase the prior year. This improvement was made in 2015 despite the impact of historic levels of
rainfall in many of our major markets. While historical spending on public infrastructure projects has been comparatively more stable as governmental appropriations and expenditures are typically less interest rate-sensitive than private sector
spending, during 2015 the unprecedented uncertainty on both the timing and amount of future long-term federal infrastructure funding had negatively affected spending on public infrastructure projects. This uncertainty was accompanied by a reduction
in some states’ investment in highway maintenance.

After a decade of 36 short-term funding provisions, a five-year, $305 billion
highway bill,Fixing America’s Surface Transportation Act(“FAST Act”), was signed into law on December 4, 2015. FAST Act funding will primarily be secured through gas tax collections. Market analysis projects aggregate
demand to increase with the availability of federal funding, with demand peaking in 2018, and thereafter declining with anticipated higher interest and inflation rates. Additionally, many states have recently shown a commitment to securing
alternative funding sources, including initiating special-purpose taxes and raising gas taxes. According toAmerican Road and Transportation Builders Association(“ARTBA”), fifteen states have raised gas taxes







and 30 legislative measures (which represented 68% of ballot initiatives) for transportation funding were approved by voters in 2015.

Supported by state spending programs, our aggregates shipments to the infrastructure construction market increased 5% in 2015 compared to an
increase of 12% in 2014 compared with 2013. We believe that the demand and need for infrastructure projects will continue to support consistent growth in this market now that long-term federal funding has been resolved. In 2015, 41% of our product
line aggregates shipments were to the infrastructure construction market.

Within the construction industry, we also sell our aggregates
and cement products for use in both nonresidential construction and residential construction. Nonresidential and residential construction levels generally move with economic cycles; when the economy is strong, construction levels rise, and when the
economy is weak, construction levels fall.

In 2015, construction growth was driven by private-sector activity. Nonresidential and
residential construction levels are interest rate-sensitive and typically move in direct correlation with economic cycles. The Dodge Momentum Index, a 12-month leading indicator of construction spending for nonresidential building compiled by McGraw
Hill Construction and where the year 2000 serves as an index basis of 100, remained strong and was 125.2 in December 2015. According to Dodge Data & Analytics, the recent increasing trend of the index is an indication that construction
growth will continue into 2016.

Our aggregates volumes to the nonresidential construction market accounted for 32% of our 2015 aggregates
product line shipments and increased 3% compared with 2014. Light nonresidential, which includes the commercial sector, increased 27% and was partially offset by a decline in heavy nonresidential, which includes the industrial and energy sectors.
Nonresidential investment varies significantly by state. Texas continues to lead the nation in nonresidential construction, demonstrating economic diversity and the ability to replace energy-related shipments currently displaced by low oil prices
with other residential projects. Even with its challenging commodity price environment, we expect continued energy-related activity. On a national scale, Florida and South Carolina each rank in the top 10 states and North Carolina and Colorado each
rank in the top 20 states in growth (based on dollars invested) in nonresidential construction. Notably, recovery in the residential market typically leads to nonresidential growth with a 12-to-18-month lag.

Our aggregates shipments to the residential construction market increased 20% in 2015. Housing strength varies considerably in different areas
of the country. We saw significant residential growth in our key geographic markets, including Florida, Georgia, North Carolina, and Texas. The U.S. Census Bureau reported the total value of private residential construction put in place in 2015
increased 13%. Furthermore, housing starts, a key indicator for residential construction activity, continues to show year-over-year improvement. While 2015 represented the second year that starts exceeded one million since 2008, they still remain
below the 50-year historical annual average of 1.5 million units. Importantly, 2015 housing starts exceeded completions, a trend expected to continue in 2016. Geographically, housing strength varies considerably by state, and Texas leads the
nation in residential starts. Notably, Dallas-Fort Worth is the second ranked metro area in the United States for growth in housing permits. Additionally, Florida, South Carolina, Colorado and North Carolina each rank in the top ten states for
residential starts. In 2015, 17% of our aggregates shipments were to the residential construction market.

Our aggregates product line
shipment variances in 2015 for the Mid-America and Southeast Groups reflect the ongoing recovery in these markets, notably Georgia, Florida, and North Carolina. While shipments in the West Group were up due to acquired operations, volumes reflect
the significant precipitation in Texas,







Oklahoma and Colorado, which deferred certain shipments to future periods. The West Group volume variance in 2015 was also impacted by the divestiture of the North Troy quarry and two rail yards,
which were sold in the third quarter of 2014.

Shipments of chemical rock (comprised primarily of high-calcium carbonate material used for
agricultural lime and flue gas desulfurization) and ballast product sales (collectively “ChemRock/Rail”) accounted for 10% of our aggregates shipments and increased 10% in 2015.

Shipments of aggregates-related downstream products typically follow construction aggregates trends.

The Cement business was acquired from TXI on July 1, 2014. The net sales of $367.6 million for 2015 reflected the Company’s leading
position in the Texas market.

Our business is dependent on funding from a combination of federal, state and local sources.

Our aggregates and cement products are used in public infrastructure projects, which include the construction, maintenance, and improvement of
highways, streets, roads, bridges, schools, and similar projects. So our business is dependent on the level of federal, state, and local spending on these projects. The year 2015 was another year of unprecedented uncertainty as it related to both
the timing and amount of future long-term federal infrastructure funding, which negatively affected spending on public infrastructure projects. Despite the uncertainty in long-term funding levels, which wasn’t resolved until near the end of the
year, the total value of United States overall public-works spending increased in 2015. However, federal funding remained flat for the year. This increase in overall public works spending in 2015 demonstrates the commitment of states to address the
underlying demand for infrastructure investment. However, infrastructure investment continued to vary by market and was strongest in the southwestern and southeastern United States in 2015. We saw increased infrastructure spending in 2015 in Texas,
North Carolina, Iowa, and Georgia, four of our five largest revenue generating states. We cannot be assured, however, of the existence, amount, and timing of appropriations for spending on future projects.

The federal highway bill provides annual highway funding for public-sector construction projects. The most recent federal highway bill passed
in December 2015, the FAST Act, after a decade of 36 short-term funding provisions, reauthorizes federal highway and transportation funding programs and stabilizes the Highway Trust Fund. The FAST Act also changes TIFIA funding, a federal
alternative funding mechanism for transportation projects. Under the FAST Act TIFIA funding will range from $275 million to $300 million, and will no longer require the 20% matching funds from state departments of transportation.

Federal highway bills provide spending authorizations that represent maximum amounts. Each year, an appropriation act is passed establishing
the amount that can actually be used for particular programs. The annual funding level is generally tied to receipts of highway user taxes placed in the Highway Trust Fund. Once the annual appropriation is passed, funds are distributed to each state
based on formulas (apportionments) or other procedures (allocations). Apportioned and allocated funds generally must be spent on specific programs as outlined in the federal legislation. The Highway Trust Fund has experienced shortfalls in recent
years, due to high gas prices (until recently), fewer miles driven and improved automobile fuel efficiency. These shortfalls created a significant decline in federal highway funding levels. In response to the projected shortfalls, money has been
transferred from the General Fund into the Highway Trust Fund over the past several years. According to the Congressional Budget Office, current revenues of approximately $34 billion are falling short of the current annual expenditure level of $41
billion. Therefore, timely Congressional action is needed to address the funding mechanism for the Highway Trust Fund. We cannot be assured of the existence, timing or amount of federal highway funding levels in the future. We also cannot be assured
of the impact of the recent







sharp reduction in gasoline prices on the levels of highway user taxes that might be collected in the future and the corresponding levels of funding to the Highway Trust Fund.

With the passage of FAST Act in December 2015, the
infrastructure market should have increased activity in 2016 and beyond, which should help our business. With most states in recovery or expansion, the sustained decline in energy costs may be the catalyst in some markets to boost construction and
help our business. But those markets heavily dependent on the energy sector, namely Oklahoma and West Virginia, may result in recessions in those areas, with the decrease in oil production, which would hurt our business.

Our aggregates business is seasonal and subject to the weather.

Our aggregates business depends on the availability of aggregate reserves or deposits and our ability to mine







them economically.

Our challenge is to find aggregate deposits that we can
mine economically, with appropriate permits, near either growing markets or long-haul transportation corridors that economically serve growing markets. As communities have grown, they have taken up attractive quarrying locations and have imposed
restrictions on mining. We try to meet this challenge by identifying and permitting sites prior to economic expansion, buying more land around our existing quarries to increase our mineral reserves, developing underground mines, and developing a
distribution network that transports aggregates products by various transportation methods, including rail and water, that allows us to transport our products longer distances than would normally be considered economical, but we can give no
assurances that we will be successful.

Our business is a capital-intensive business.

The property and machinery needed to produce our products are very expensive. Therefore, we require large amounts of cash to operate our
businesses. We believe that our cash on hand, along with our projected internal cash flows and our available financing resources, will be enough to give us the cash we need to support our anticipated operating and capital needs. Our ability to
generate sufficient cash flow depends on future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business, and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. If we are
unable to generate sufficient cash to operate our business, we may be required, among other things, to further reduce or delay planned capital or operating expenditures.

Our businesses face many competitors.

Our businesses have many competitors, some of whom are bigger and have more resources than we do. Some of our competitors also operate on a
worldwide basis. Our results are affected by the number of competitors in a market, the production capacity that a particular market can accommodate, the pricing practices of other competitors, and the entry of new competitors in a market. We also
face competition for some of our products from alternative products. For example, our magnesia specialties business may compete with other chemical products that could be used instead of our magnesia-based products. As other examples, our aggregates
business may compete with recycled asphalt and concrete products that could be used instead of new products and our cement business may compete with international competitors who are importing product to the United States with lower production and
regulatory costs.

Our businesses could be impacted by rising interest rates.

As discussed previously, our operations are highly dependent upon the interest rate-sensitive construction and steelmaking industries.
Therefore, business in these industries and for us may decline if interest rates rise and costs increase.

For example, demand in the
residential construction market in which we sell our aggregate products is affected by interest rates. The Federal Reserve kept the federal funds rate near zero percent for the majority of 2015. The recent increase in the rate by 0.25% represented
the first increase since 2008. The residential construction market accounted for 17% of our aggregates product line shipments in 2015.

Aside from these inherent risks from within our operations, our earnings are also affected by changes in short-term interest rates. However,
rising interest rates are not necessarily predictive of weaker operating results. In fact, since 2007, our profitability increased when interest rates rose, based on the last twelve months







quarterly historical net income regression versus a 10-year U.S. government bond. In essence, our underlying business generally serves as a natural hedge to rising interest rates.

Rising interest rates could also result in disruptions in the credit markets, which could affect our business, as described in greater detail
under “Disruptions in the credit markets could affect our business”below.

Our future growth may depend in part on acquiring other
businesses in our industry.

We expect to continue to grow, in part, by buying other businesses. We will continue to look for
strategic businesses to acquire, like our acquisition of TXI in 2014. In the past, we have made acquisitions to strengthen our existing locations, expand our operations, and enter new geographic markets. We will continue to make selective
acquisitions, joint ventures, or other business arrangements we believe will help our company. However, the continued success of our acquisition program will depend on our ability to find and buy other attractive businesses at a reasonable price and
our ability to integrate acquired businesses into our existing operations. We cannot assume there will continue to be attractive acquisition opportunities for sale at reasonable prices that we can successfully integrate into our operations.

We may decide to pay all or part of the purchase price of any future acquisition with shares of our common stock. For example, we used our
common stock in our acquisition of TXI. We may also use our stock to make strategic investments in other companies to complement and expand our operations. If we use our common stock in this way, the ownership interests of our shareholders will be
diluted and the price of our stock could fall. We operate our businesses with the objective of maximizing the long-term shareholder return.

We have acquired many companies since 1995. Some of these acquisitions were more easily integrated into our existing operations and have
performed as well or better than we expected, while others have not. For example, in 2015 we completed the integration of the operations of TXI, as discussed below, which was more successful than anticipated. We have sold some underperforming and
other non-strategic assets, such as underperforming road paving operations in Arkansas and east Texas, which were sold in 2014, and our non-core asphalt operations in San Antonio, Texas, which were sold in 2015.

Our integration of the acquisition of or business combination with other businesses may not be as successful as we hope.

We have a successful history of business combinations and integration of these businesses into our heritage operations. Our largest business
acquisition has been our business combination with TXI, which closed in July 2014. In 2015 we completed the integration of TXI’s operations into our own operations, which allowed us to achieve the synergies, cost savings, and operating
efficiencies we had forecast from the TXI acquisition. In fact we completed this integration ahead of schedule and achieved even greater synergies and cost saving than the amount we originally forecast from the TXI acquisition. However, in
connection with the integration of any business that we may seek to acquire, it is a risk factor that we will not be able to achieve such integration in a successful manner or on the time schedule we have projected or in a way that will achieve the
level of synergies, cost savings, or operating efficiencies we have forecast from the acquisition.

Any other significant business
acquisition or combination we might chose to do, like the acquisition of TXI, would require that we devote significant management attention and resources to preparing for and then integrating our business practices and operations. We believe we
would be successful in this integration process. Nevertheless, we may fail to realize some of the anticipated benefits of any potential acquisition or other business combination that we might choose to pursue in the future, if the integration
process takes longer







than expected or is more costly than expected. Potential difficulties we may encounter in the integration process include:



•the inability to successfully combine operations in a manner that permits us to achieve the cost savings and revenue synergies anticipated to result from the proposed acquisition or business combination, which would
result in the anticipated benefits of the acquisition or business combination not being realized partly or wholly in the time frame currently anticipated or at all;



•lost sales and customers as a result of certain customers of either the Company or former customers of the acquired or combined company deciding not to do business with the Company;



•complexities associated with managing the combined operations;



•integrating personnel;



•creation of uniform standards, internal controls, procedures, policies and information systems;



•potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses, delays or regulatory issues associated with integrating the remaining operations; and



•performance shortfalls at business units as a result of the diversion of management attention caused by completing the remaining integration of the operations.

Aggregates-related downstream businesses have lower profit margins and can be more volatile.

For 2015, our asphalt, ready mixed concrete, and road paving businesses accounted for 33% of the net sales of our Aggregates business, up from
8% in 2011. These businesses typically provide lower profit margins (excluding freight and delivery revenues) than our aggregates product line due to potentially volatile input costs, highly competitive market dynamics, and lower barriers to entry.
Therefore, as we expand these operations, our overall gross margin is likely to be adversely affected. We saw this impact our gross margin in recent years. Our overall aggregates-related downstream operations gross margin (excluding freight and
delivery revenues) was 8.9% for 2015 and 2014. The overall gross margin (excluding freight and delivery revenues) of our Aggregates business will continue to be reduced by the lower gross margins for our aggregates-related downstream operations.

Short supplies and high costs of fuel, energy, and raw materials affect our businesses.

Our businesses require a continued supply of diesel fuel, natural gas, coal, petroleum coke and other energy. The financial results of these
businesses have been affected by the short supply or high costs of these fuels and energy. While we can contract for some fuels and sources of energy, such as fixed-price supply contracts for coal and petroleum coke, significant increases in costs
or reduced availability of these items have and may in the future reduce our financial results. Moreover, fluctuations in the supply and costs of these fuels and energy can make planning our businesses more difficult. Because of the fluctuating
trends in diesel fuel prices, we enter into fixed-price fuel agreements from time to time for a portion of our diesel fuel to reduce our diesel fuel price risk. We currently have a fixed-price commitment for approximately 40% of our diesel fuel
requirements at a rate of $2.20 per gallon through December 31, 2016.

To illustrate how diesel fuel price fluctuations, and other
energy costs, have impacted our business, consider the recent years. In 2013 the average price we paid per gallon of diesel fuel was 4% lower than we







paid in 2012, but the average cost of natural gas was 18% higher than 2012. Similarly, in 2014 the average price we paid per gallon of diesel fuel was 8% lower compared to 2013, but the average
cost of natural gas increased 24% from 2013. Diesel fuel, which averaged $2.82 per gallon in 2014 and $2.98 per gallon in 2013, represents the single largest component of energy costs for our Aggregates business. Diesel fuel prices declined rapidly
during December 2014, ending the year at a per gallon price that was 26% below the 2014 average. This trend continued in 2015, as the Company’s average price per gallon of diesel fuel in 2015 was $2.05 on 42.5 million gallons compared with
$3.02 on 36.9 million gallons in 2014. Natural gas costs also declined in 2015, down 28% from the 2014 average cost.

The Company has
fixed price agreements for 100% of its 2016 coal needs. The Magnesia Specialties business has fixed price agreements for the supply of a portion of its coal and natural gas needs.

Cement production requires large amounts of energy, including electricity and fossil fuels. Energy costs represented approximately 26% of the
2015 direct production costs of our Cement business. Therefore, the cost of energy is one of our largest expenses. Prices for energy are subject to market forces largely beyond our control and can be quite volatile. Price increases that we are
unable to pass through in the form of price increases for our products, or disruption of the uninterrupted supply of fuel and electricity, could adversely affect us. Accordingly, volatility in energy costs can adversely affect the financial results
of our Cement business. Profitability of the Cement business is also subject to kiln maintenance, which requires the plant to be shut down for a period of time as repairs are made. In 2014, the Cement business incurred shutdown costs of $13.3
million during the second half of the year. In 2015, the Cement business incurred shutdown costs of $26 million for the full year.

Similarly our aggregates-related downstream operations also require a continued supply of liquid asphalt and cement, which serve as key raw
materials in the production of hot mix asphalt and ready mixed concrete, respectively. Some of these raw materials we can produce internally but most are purchased from third parties. These purchased raw materials are subject to potential supply
constraints and significant price fluctuations, which are beyond our control. The financial results of our aggregates-related downstream operations have been affected by the short supply or high costs of these raw materials. We generally see
frequent volatility in the costs for these raw materials. For 2014, we saw higher prices for these raw materials than 2013. This trend reversed in 2015, when we saw lower prices for these raw materials than 2014. Liquid asphalt prices may not always
follow other energy products (e.g., oil or diesel fuel) because of complexities in the refining process which converts a barrel of oil into other fuels and petrochemical products.

Cement is a commodity sensitive to supply and price volatility.

Cement is a commodity, and competition is often based mainly on price, which is highly sensitive to changes in supply and demand. Prices change
a lot in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand, general economic conditions and other market conditions, which we cannot control. When cement producers increase production capacity or more cement is imported into the market, an
oversupply of cement in the market may occur if supply exceeds demand. In that case cement prices generally fall. We cannot be assured that prices for our cement products sold will not decline in the future or that such decline will not have a
material adverse effect on our Cement business.

Unexpected equipment failures, catastrophic events and scheduled maintenance may lead to production
curtailments or shutdowns.

Our manufacturing processes are dependent upon critical pieces of equipment, such as our kilns and
finishing mills. This equipment, on occasion, may be out of service as a result of unanticipated failures or







damage during accidents. In addition to equipment failures, our facilities are also subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events such as fires, explosions or violent
weather conditions. We have one to two-week scheduled outages at least once a year to refurbish our cement and dolomitic lime production facilities. In 2015, the Cement business incurred shutdown costs of $26 million during the year. In 2015, the
Magnesia Specialties business incurred shutdown costs of $5.1 million during the year. Any significant interruption in production capability may require us to make significant capital expenditures to remedy problems or damage as well as cause us to
lose revenue due to lost production time.

Our Cement and Magnesia Specialties businesses may become capacity constrained.

If our Cement or Magnesia Specialties businesses become capacity constrained, they may be unable to satisfy on a timely basis the demand for
some of their products, and any resulting changes in customers would introduce volatility to the earnings of these segments. We can address capacity needs by enhancing our manufacturing productivity, increasing the operational availability of
equipment, reducing machinery down time and extending machinery useful life. Future demand for our products may require us to expand further our manufacturing capacity, particularly through the purchase of additional manufacturing
equipment. However, we may not be able to increase our capacity in time to satisfy increases in demand that may occur from time to time. Capacity constraints may prevent us from satisfying customer orders and result in a loss of sales to
competitors that are not capacity constrained. In addition, we may suffer excess capacity if we increase our capacity to meet actual or anticipated demand and that demand decreases or does not materialize.

Our cement business could suffer if cement imports from other countries significantly increase or are sold in the U.S. in violation of U.S. fair trade
laws.

The cement industry has in the past obtained antidumping orders imposing duties on imports of cement and clinker from other
countries that violated U.S. fair trade laws. Currently, an antidumping order against cement and clinker from Japan will expire in 2016 unless it is extended by the Federal Trade Commission. As has always been the case, cement operators with import
facilities can purchase cement from other countries, such as those in Latin America and Asia, which could compete with domestic producers. In addition, if environmental regulations increase the costs of domestic producers compared to foreign
producers that are not subject to similar regulations, imported cement could achieve a significant cost advantage over domestically produced cement. An influx of cement or clinker products from countries not subject to antidumping orders, or sales
of imported cement or clinker in violation of U.S. fair trade laws, could adversely affect our cement business.

Road paving construction operations
present additional risks to our business.

Our aggregates-related downstream operations also present challenges in the paving
construction business where many of our contracts have penalties for late completion. In some instances, including many of our fixed price contracts, we guarantee that we will complete a project by a certain date. If we subsequently fail to complete
the project as scheduled we may be held responsible for costs resulting from the delay, generally in the form of contractually agreed-upon liquidated damages. Under these circumstances, the total project cost could exceed our original estimate, and
we could experience a loss of profit or a loss on the project. In our road paving construction operations we also have fixed price and fixed unit price contracts where our profits can be adversely affected by a number of factors beyond our control,
which can cause our actual costs to materially exceed the costs estimated at the time or our original bid. These same issues and risks can also impact some of our contacts in our asphalt and ready mixed concrete operations. These risks are somewhat
mitigated by the fact that a majority of our road paving contracts are for short duration projects.







Changes in legal requirements and governmental policies concerning zoning, land use, the environment, and
other areas of the law, and litigation relating to these matters, affect our businesses. Our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities.

Many federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to zoning, land use, the environment, health, safety, and other regulatory matters
govern our operations. We take great pride in our operations and try to remain in strict compliance at all times with all applicable laws and regulations. Despite our extensive compliance efforts, risk of liabilities, particularly environmental
liabilities, is inherent in the operation of our businesses, as it is with our competitors. We cannot assume that these liabilities will not negatively affect us in the future.

We are also subject to future events, including changes in existing laws or regulations or enforcement policies, or further investigation or
evaluation of the potential health hazards of some of our products or business activities, which may result in additional compliance and other costs. We could be forced to invest in preventive or remedial action, like pollution control facilities,
which could be substantial.

Our operations are subject to manufacturing, operating, and handling risks associated with the products we
produce and the products we use in our operations, including the related storage and transportation of raw materials, products, hazardous substances, and wastes. We are exposed to hazards including storage tank leaks, explosions, discharges or
releases of hazardous substances, exposure to dust, and the operation of mobile equipment and manufacturing machinery.

These risks can
subject us to potentially significant liabilities relating to personal injury or death, or property damage, and may result in civil or criminal penalties, which could hurt our productivity or profitability. For example, from time to time we
investigate and remediate environmental contamination relating to our prior or current operations, as well as operations we have acquired from others, and in some cases we have been or could be named as a defendant in litigation brought by
governmental agencies or private parties.

We are involved from time to time in litigation and claims arising from our operations. While
we do not believe the outcome of pending or threatened litigation will have a material adverse effect on our operations or our financial condition, we cannot assume that an adverse outcome in a pending or future legal action would not negatively
affect us.

Labor disputes could disrupt operations of our businesses.

Labor unions represent 9.8% of the hourly employees of our aggregates business, none of the hourly employees of our cement business, and 100%
of the hourly employees of our Magnesia Specialties business. Our collective bargaining agreements for employees of our magnesia specialties business at the Manistee, Michigan magnesia chemicals plant and the Woodville, Ohio lime plant expire in
August 2019 and May 2018, respectively.

Disputes with our trade unions, or the inability to renew our labor agreements, could lead to
strikes or other actions that could disrupt our businesses, raise costs, and reduce revenues and earnings from the affected locations. We believe we have good relations with all of our employees, including our unionized employees.

Delays or interruptions in shipping products of our businesses could affect our operations.







Transportation logistics play an important role in allowing us to supply products to our
customers, whether by truck, rail, or ship. We also rely heavily on third-party truck and rail transportation to ship coal, natural gas, and other fuels to our plants. Any significant delays, disruptions, or the non-availability of our
transportation support system could negatively affect our operations. Transportation operations are subject to capacity constraints, high fuel costs and various hazards, including extreme weather conditions and slowdowns due to labor strikes and
other work stoppages. In Texas, we compete for third party trucking services with operations in the oil and gas fields, which can significantly constrain the availability of those services to us. If there are material changes in the availability or
cost of transportation services, we may not be able to arrange alternative and timely means to ship our products or fuels at a reasonable cost, which could lead to interruptions or slowdowns in our businesses or increases in our costs.

The availability of rail cars can also affect our ability to transport our products. Rail cars can be used to transport many different types
of products across all of our segments. If owners sell or lease rail cars for use in other industries, we may not have enough rail cars to transport our products.

We have long-term agreements with shipping companies to provide ships to transport our aggregate products from our Bahamas and Nova Scotia
operations to various coastal ports. These contracts have varying expiration dates ranging from 2016 to 2027 and generally contain renewal options. Our inability to renew these agreements or enter into new ones with other shipping companies could
affect our ability to transport our products.

When we sold our River District operations in 2011 as part of our asset exchange with
Lafarge, we sold most of our barge long-haul distribution network. As a result, we reduced our risks from distributing our products by barges, especially along the Mississippi River. We still distribute some of our product by barge along
rivers in West Virginia. We may continue to experience, to a lesser degree, risks associated with distributing our products by barges, including significant delays, disruptions, or the non-availability of our barge transportation system that
could negatively affect our operations, water levels that could affect our ability to transport our products by barge, and barges that may not be available in quantities that we might need from time to time to support our operations.

Our earnings are affected by the application of accounting standards and our critical accounting policies, which involve subjective judgments and
estimates by our management. Our estimates and assumptions could be wrong.

The accounting standards we use in preparing our
financial statements are often complex and require that we make significant estimates and assumptions in interpreting and applying those standards. We make critical estimates and assumptions involving accounting matters including our goodwill
impairment testing, our expenses and cash requirements for our pension plans, our estimated income taxes, and how we account for our property, plant and equipment, and inventory. These estimates and assumptions involve matters that are inherently
uncertain and require our subjective and complex judgments. If we used different estimates and assumptions or used different ways to determine these estimates, our financial results could differ.

While we believe our estimates and assumptions are appropriate, we could be wrong. Accordingly, our financial results could be different,
either higher or lower. We urge you to read about our critical accounting policies in our Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

The adoption of new accounting standards may affect our financial results.







The accounting standards we apply in preparing our financial statements are reviewed by
regulatory bodies and are changed from time to time. New or revised accounting standards could change our financial results either positively or negatively. We urge you to read about our accounting policies in Note A of our 2015 financial
statements. Additional accounting standard updates have been issued, effective January 1, 2018, that amend the accounting guidance on revenue recognition and provide a more robust framework for addressing revenue issues, improving comparability
of revenue recognition practices, and improving disclosure requirements. We are currently reviewing how these new provisions will affect us. At this time we do not expect the changes to have a material impact on our financial results. New or revised
accounting standards could change our financial results either positively or negatively.

TheSarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and other
related rules and regulations, have increased the scope, complexity, and cost of corporate governance. Reports from the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board’s (“PCAOB”) inspections of public accounting firms continue to outline
findings and recommendations which could require these firms to perform additional work as part of their financial statement audits. The Company’s costs to respond to these additional requirements and exposure to adverse findings by the PCAOB
of the work performed may increase as to internal controls.

We depend on the recruitment and retention of qualified personnel, and our failure to
attract and retain such personnel could affect our business.

Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued
services of our key personnel and executive officers. Our prospects depend upon our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel for our operations. Competition for personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining
qualified personnel, which could negatively affect our business.

Disruptions in the credit markets could affect our business.

We have considered the current economic environment and its potential impact to the Company’s business. Demand for aggregates products,
particularly in the infrastructure construction market, has already been negatively affected by federal and state budget and deficit issues and the uncertainty over future highway funding levels, until the recent enactment of a new federal highway
bill. Further, delays or cancellations to capital projects in the nonresidential and residential construction markets could occur if companies and consumers are unable to obtain financing for construction projects or if consumer confidence continues
to be eroded by economic uncertainty.

A recessionary construction economy can also increase the likelihood we will not be able to collect
on all of our accounts receivable with our customers. We are protected in part, however, by payment bonds posted by many of our customers or end-users. Nevertheless, we experienced a delay in payment from some of our customers during the
construction downturn, which can negatively affect operating cash flows. Historically, our bad debt write-offs have not been significant to our operating results, and, although the amount of our bad debt write-offs has increased, we believe our
allowance for doubtful accounts is adequate.

The credit environment could impact the Company’s ability to borrow money in the
future. Additional financing or refinancing might not be available and, if available, may not be at economically favorable terms. Further, an increase in leverage could lead to deterioration in our credit ratings. A reduction in our credit ratings,
regardless of the cause, could also limit our ability to obtain additional financing and/or increase our







cost of obtaining financing. There is no guarantee we will be able to access the capital markets at financially economical interest rates, which could negatively affect our business.

We may be required to obtain financing in order to fund certain strategic acquisitions, if they arise, or to refinance our outstanding debt.
Any large strategic acquisition would require that we issue both newly issued equity and debt securities, like we did with the acquisition of TXI, in order to maintain our investment grade credit rating and could result in a ratings downgrade
notwithstanding our issuance of equity securities to fund the transaction. We are also exposed to risks from tightening credit markets, through the interest payable on our outstanding debt and the interest cost on our commercial paper program, to
the extent it is available to us. While management believes our credit ratings will remain at a composite investment-grade level, we cannot be assured these ratings will remain at those levels. While management believes the Company will continue to
have credit available to it adequate to meet its needs, there can be no assurance of that.

Our Magnesia Specialties business depends in part on the
steel industry and the supply of reasonably priced fuels.

Our Magnesia Specialties business sells some of its products to
companies in the steel industry. While we have reduced this risk over the last few years, this business is still dependent, in part, on the strength of the cyclical steel industry. The Magnesia Specialties business also requires significant amounts
of natural gas, coal, and petroleum coke, and financial results are negatively affected by increases in fuel prices or shortages.

Our Magnesia
Specialties business faces currency risks from its overseas operations.

Our Magnesia Specialties business sells some of its
products to companies located outside the United States. Approximately 13.3% of the revenues of the Magnesia Specialties business in 2015 were from foreign jurisdictions, principally Canada, Mexico, Europe, South America, and the Pacific Rim, but no
single foreign county accounted for 10% or more of the revenues of the business. Therefore the operations of the Magnesia Specialties business are affected from time to time by the fluctuating values of the currency exchange rates of the countries
in which it does business in relation to the value of the U.S. Dollar. The business tries to mitigate the short-term effects of currency exchange rates by using the U.S. Dollar as its functional currency in foreign transactions. This still
leaves the business subject to certain risks, depending on the strength of the U.S. Dollar. In 2015, the strength of the U.S. Dollar in foreign markets negatively affected the overall price of the products of the Magnesia Specialties business
when compared to foreign-domiciled competitors.

Our acquisitions could harm our results of operations.

In pursuing our business strategy, we conduct discussions, evaluate opportunities, and enter into acquisition agreements. Acquisitions involve
significant challenges and risks, including risks that:



•We may not realize a satisfactory return on the investment we make;



•We may not be able to retain key personnel of the acquired business;



•We may experience difficulty in integrating new employees, business systems, and technology;



•Our due diligence process may not identify compliance issues or other liabilities that are in existence at the time of our acquisition;



•We may have difficulty entering into new geographic markets in which we are not experienced; or







•We may be unable to retain the customers and partners of acquired businesses following the acquisition.

Our articles of incorporation, bylaws, and shareholder rights plan and North Carolina law may inhibit a change in control that you may favor.

Our restated articles of incorporation and restated bylaws, shareholder rights plan, and North Carolina law contain provisions
that may delay, deter or inhibit a future acquisition of us not approved by our Board of Directors. This could occur even if our shareholders are offered an attractive value for their shares or if many or even a majority of our shareholders believe
the takeover is in their best interest. These provisions are intended to encourage any person interested in acquiring us to negotiate with and obtain the approval of our Board of Directors in connection with the transaction. Provisions that could
delay, deter, or inhibit a future acquisition include the following:



•a classified Board of Directors;



•the ability of the Board of Directors to establish the terms of, and issue, preferred stock without shareholder approval;



•the requirement that our shareholders may only remove directors for cause;



•the inability of shareholders to call special meetings of shareholders; and



•super majority shareholder approval requirements for business combination transactions with certain five percent shareholders.

In addition, we have in place a shareholder rights plan that will trigger a dilutive issuance of common stock upon acquisitions of our common
stock by a third party above a threshold that are not approved by the Board of Directors. Additionally, the occurrence of certain change of control events could result in an event of default under certain of our existing or future debt instruments.

Changes in our effective income tax rate may harm our results of operations.

A number of factors may increase our future effective income tax rate, including:



•Governmental authorities increasing taxes or eliminating deductions, particularly the depletion deduction;



•The jurisdictions in which earnings are taxed;



•The resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities;



•Changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities;



•Adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns;



•Changes in available tax credits;







•Changes in stock-based compensation;



•Other changes in tax laws, and



•The interpretation of tax laws and/or administrative practices.

Any significant increase in
our future effective income tax rate could reduce net earnings for future periods.

We are dependent on information technology and our systems and
infrastructure face certain risks, including cybersecurity risks and data leakage risks.

We are dependent on information
technology systems and infrastructure. Any significant breakdown, invasion, destruction or interruption of these systems by employees, others with authorized access to our systems, or unauthorized persons could negatively impact operations. There is
also a risk that we could experience a business interruption, theft of information, or reputational damage as a result of a cyber-attack, such as an infiltration of a data center, or data leakage of confidential information either internally or at
our third-party providers. While we have invested in the protection of our data and information technology to reduce these risks and routinely test the security of our information systems network, there can be no assurance that our efforts will
prevent breakdowns or breaches in our systems that could adversely affect our business.



