10-K


d13125e10vk.htm

FORM 10-K

e10vk


UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

Form 10-K

Devon Energy Corporation

(Exact name of Registrant as Specified in its
Charter)

Registrant’s telephone number, including
area code:

(405) 235-3611

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(b) of the Act:

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(g) of the Act:

None

Indicate
by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant
was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days.

þ

Yes     No

o

Indicate
by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein,
and will not be contained, to the best of Registrant’s
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.

þ

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated filer (as
defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Act).

þ

Yes     No

o

The
aggregate market value of the voting stock held by
non-affiliates of the Registrant as of June 30, 2003, was
$12,148,090,102.

On
February 29, 2004, 237,953,429 shares of common stock
and 1,473,409 exchangeable shares of Devon’s wholly
owned subsidiary, Northstar Energy Corporation, were
outstanding. Each exchangeable share is exchangeable for one
share of Devon common stock.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Proxy statement for the 2004 annual meeting of
stockholders — Part III




DEFINITIONS

As used in this document:

DISCLOSURE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING
STATEMENTS

This report includes “forward-looking
statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the
Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements
other than statements of historical facts included or
incorporated by reference in this report, including, without
limitation, statements regarding Devon’s future financial
position, business strategy, budgets, projected revenues,
projected costs and plans and objectives of management for
future operations, are forward-looking statements. In addition,
forward-looking statements generally can be identified by the
use of forward-looking terminology such as “may,”
“will,” “expect,” “intend,”
“project,” “estimate,”
“anticipate,” “believe,” or
“continue” or the negative thereof or variations
thereon or similar terminology. Although Devon believes that the
expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are
reasonable, it can give no assurance that such expectations will
prove to have been correct. Important factors that could cause
actual results to differ materially from Devon’s
expectations (“Cautionary Statements”) include, but
are not limited to, Devon’s assumptions about energy
markets, production levels, reserve levels, operating results,
competitive conditions, technology, the availability of capital
resources,



capital expenditure obligations, the supply and
demand for oil, natural gas, NGLs and other products or
services, the price of oil, natural gas, NGLs and other products
or services, currency exchange rates, the weather, inflation,
the availability of goods and services, drilling risks, future
processing volumes and pipeline throughput, general economic
conditions, either internationally or nationally or in the
jurisdictions in which Devon or its subsidiaries are doing
business, legislative or regulatory changes, including changes
in environmental regulation, environmental risks and liability
under federal, state and foreign environmental laws and
regulations, the securities or capital markets and other factors
disclosed under “Item 7. Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations,” “Item 2. Properties —
Proved Reserves and Estimated Future Net Revenue,”
“Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure
About Market Risk” and elsewhere in this report. All
subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements
attributable to Devon, or persons acting on its behalf, are
expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary
statements. Devon assumes no duty to update or revise its
forward-looking statements based on changes in internal
estimates or expectations or otherwise.



PART I

Item 1.

Business

General

Devon Energy Corporation, including its
subsidiaries, (“Devon”) is an independent energy
company engaged primarily in oil and gas exploration,
development and production, the acquisition of producing
properties, the transportation of oil, gas, and NGLs and the
processing of natural gas. Through its predecessors, Devon began
operations in 1971 as a privately held company. In 1988,
Devon’s common stock began trading publicly on the American
Stock Exchange under the symbol “DVN”. In addition,
commencing on December 15, 1998, a new class of Devon
exchangeable shares began trading on The Toronto Stock Exchange
under the symbol “NSX”. These shares are essentially
equivalent to Devon common stock. However, because they are
issued by Devon’s wholly owned subsidiary, Northstar Energy
Corporation (“Northstar”), they qualify as a domestic
Canadian investment for Canadian shareholders. They are
exchangeable at any time, on a one-for-one basis, for common
shares of Devon.

The principal and administrative offices of Devon
are located at 20 North Broadway, Oklahoma City, OK 73102-8260
(telephone 405/235-3611).

Devon operates oil and gas properties in the
United States, Canada and various regions located outside North
America. Devon’s North American properties are concentrated
within five geographic areas. Operations in the United States
are focused in the Permian Basin, the Mid-Continent, the Rocky
Mountains and onshore and offshore Gulf Coast. Canadian
operations are focused in the Western Canadian Sedimentary Basin
in Alberta and British Columbia. Operations outside North
America are located primarily in Azerbaijan, China, Egypt, and
areas in West Africa, including Equatorial Guinea, Gabon and
Cote d’Ivoire. In addition to its oil and gas operations,
Devon has marketing and midstream operations. These include
marketing natural gas, crude oil and NGLs, and the construction
and operation of pipelines, storage and treating facilities and
gas processing plants. (A detailed description of Devon’s
significant properties and associated 2003 developments can be
found under “Item 2. Properties”).

At December 31, 2003, Devon’s estimated
proved reserves were 2,089 MMBoe, of which 58% were natural
gas reserves and 42% were oil and NGLs reserves. The present
value of pre-tax future net revenues discounted at 10% per
annum assuming essentially constant prices (“10% Present
Value”) of such reserves was $22.7 billion. After
taxes, the present value was $15.9 billion. Devon is one of
the largest public independent oil and gas companies based in
the United States, as measured by oil and gas reserves.

Availability of Reports

Devon makes available free of charge on its
internet website, www.dvn.com, its Annual Report on
Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current
Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed
or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(a) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably
practicable after it electronically files or furnishes them to
the Securities Exchange Commission.

Strategy

Devon’s primary objectives are to build
reserves, production, cash flow and earnings per share by
(a) acquiring oil and gas properties, (b) exploring
for new oil and gas reserves and (c) optimizing production
and value from existing oil and gas properties. Devon’s
management seeks to achieve these objectives by
(a) concentrating its properties in core areas to achieve
economies of scale, (b) acquiring and developing high
profit margin properties, (c) continually disposing of
marginal and non-strategic properties, (d) balancing
reserves between oil and gas, (e) maintaining a high degree
of financial flexibility, and (f) enhancing the value of
Devon’s production and reserves through marketing and
midstream activities.



Development of Business

During 1988, Devon expanded its capital base with
its first issuance of common stock to the public. This
transaction began a substantial expansion program that has
continued through the subsequent years. Devon has used a
two-pronged strategy of acquiring producing properties and
engaging in drilling activities to achieve this expansion. Total
proved reserves increased from 8 MMBoe at year-end 1987
(without giving effect to the 1998 and 2000 mergers accounted
for as poolings of interests) to 2,089 MMBoe at year-end
2003.

During the same time period, proved reserves have
grown from 1.31 Boe per diluted share at year-end 1987 (without
giving effect to the 1998 and 2000 poolings) to 9.65 Boe per
diluted share at year-end 2003. This represents a compound
annual growth rate of 13%. Another measure of value per share is
oil and gas production per share. Production increased from 0.18
Boe per diluted share in 1987 (without giving effect to the 1998
and 2000 poolings) to 1.05 Boe per diluted share in 2003, a
compound annual growth rate of 12%.

On April 25, 2003, Devon completed its
merger with Ocean Energy, Inc. (“Ocean”). In the
transaction, Devon issued 0.414 shares of its common stock
for each outstanding share of Ocean common stock, or a total of
approximately 74 million shares. Also, Devon assumed
approximately $1.8 billion of debt from Ocean. The Ocean
merger added approximately 554 million Boe to Devon’s
proved reserves.

Cash flow from operations was $3.8 billion
for 2003. This allowed Devon to fully fund its $2.6 billion
of capital expenditures, retire over $500 million in
long-term debt and add almost $1 billion to cash on hand.
Devon is continuing to accumulate cash with the intent to repay
debt as it matures in 2004 and subsequent years.

Devon drilled almost 300 exploration wells and
over 1,900 development wells during 2003. See further discussion
of Devon’s 2003 exploration and drilling efforts in
“Item 2. Properties.”

On January 24, 2002, Devon completed its
merger with Mitchell Energy & Development Corp.
(“Mitchell”). Under the terms of this merger, Devon
issued approximately 30 million shares of Devon common
stock and paid $1.6 billion in cash to the Mitchell
stockholders. The cash portion of the merger was funded from
borrowings under a $3.0 billion senior unsecured term loan
credit facility. The Mitchell merger added approximately
404 million Boe to Devon’s proved reserves.

On October 15, 2001, Devon acquired Anderson
Exploration Ltd. (“Anderson”) for approximately
$3.5 billion in cash. The Anderson acquisition added
approximately 534 million Boe to Devon’s proved
reserves.

To fund the cash portions of the Mitchell merger
and the Anderson acquisition, as well as to pay related
transaction costs and retire certain long-term debt assumed from
Mitchell and Anderson, Devon entered into long-term debt
agreements in October 2001 that totaled $6 billion. Half of
this total consisted of $3 billion of notes and debentures
issued on October 3, 2001. Of this total,
$1.25 billion bears interest at 7.875% and matures in
September 2031. The remaining $1.75 billion bears interest
at 6.875% and matures in September 2011.

The remaining $3 billion of the
$6 billion of long-term debt was borrowed under a credit
facility that bears interest at floating rates. As of
December 31, 2003, $2.4 billion of the original
$3 billion balance had been retired. The primary sources of
the repayments were the issuance of $1.5 billion of debt
securities, of which $1.3 billion was used to pay down the
credit facility with the remainder used to pay down other debt,
and $1.4 billion from the sale of certain oil and gas
properties, of which $1.1 billion was used to pay down the
credit facility. As of December 31, 2003, the balance
outstanding under the term loan credit facility was
$0.6 billion at an average rate of 2.2%. The terms of this
facility require repayment of the remaining debt balance at
maturity in October 2006.



Financial Information about Segments and
Geographical Areas

Notes 17 and 18 to the consolidated
financial statements included in “Item 8. Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data” of this report contains
information on Devon’s segments and geographical areas.

Drilling Activities

Devon is engaged in numerous drilling activities
on properties presently owned and intends to drill or develop
other properties acquired in the future. Devon’s 2004
drilling activities will be focused in the Rocky Mountains,
Permian Basin, Mid-Continent, Gulf of Mexico and onshore Gulf
Coast areas in the U.S., the Western Sedimentary basin of Canada
and in Brazil, China, Egypt, Russia, Syria and West Africa
outside North America.

The following tables set forth the results of
Devon’s drilling activity for the past five years.

Total Properties

United States Properties

Canadian Properties



International Properties

(1)

Gross wells are the sum of all wells in which
    Devon owns an interest.

(2)

Net wells are the sum of Devon’s working
    interests in gross wells.

As of December 31, 2003, Devon was
participating in the drilling of 97 gross (61.46 net)
wells in the U.S., 41 gross (29.36 net) wells in
Canada and 39 gross (12.53 net) wells internationally.
Of these wells, through February 1, 2004, 43 gross
(30.62 net) wells in the U.S., 36 gross
(26.14 net) wells in Canada, and 6 gross
(2.23 net) wells internationally had been completed as
productive. An additional 3 gross (1.20 net) wells in
the U.S. and 1 gross (1.00 net) well in Canada were
dry holes. The remaining wells were still in process.

Customers

Devon sells its gas production to a variety of
customers including pipelines, utilities, gas marketing firms,
industrial users and local distribution companies. Existing
gathering systems and interstate and intrastate pipelines are
used to consummate gas sales and deliveries.

The principal customers for Devon’s crude
oil production are refiners, remarketers and other companies,
some of which have pipeline facilities near the producing
properties. In the event pipeline facilities are not
conveniently available, crude oil is shipped to storage,
refining or pipeline facilities.

No purchaser accounted for over 10% of
Devon’s revenues in 2003.

Oil and Natural Gas Marketing

The spot market for oil and gas is subject to
volatility as supply and demand factors in various regions of
North America fluctuate. In addition to fixed price contracts,
Devon periodically enters into financial hedging arrangements or
firm delivery commitments with a portion of its oil and gas
production. These activities are intended to support targeted
price levels and to manage Devon’s exposure to price
fluctuations. (See “Item 7A. Quantitative and
Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.”)

Oil Marketing.

Devon’s oil production is sold under both long-term (one
year or more) and short-term (less than one year) agreements at
prices negotiated with third parties.

Natural Gas
Marketing.

Devon’s gas production
is also sold under both long-term and short-term agreements at
prices negotiated with third parties. Although exact percentages
vary daily, as of February 2004 approximately 78% of
Devon’s natural gas production was sold under short-term
contracts at variable or market-sensitive prices. These
market-sensitive sales are referred to as “spot
market” sales. Another 19% were committed under various
long-term contracts (one year or more) which dedicate the
natural gas to a purchaser for an extended period of time, but
still at market sensitive prices. Devon’s remaining gas
production was sold under fixed price contracts: 1% under
short-term agreements and 2% under long-term contracts.

Typically either the entire contract (in the case
of short-term contracts) or the price provisions of the contract
(in the case of long-term contracts) are re-negotiated from
daily intervals up to one-year



intervals. The spot market has become
progressively more competitive in recent years. As a result,
prices on the spot market have been volatile.

Competition

The oil and gas business is highly competitive.
Devon encounters competition by major integrated and independent
oil and gas companies in acquiring drilling prospects and
properties, contracting for drilling equipment and securing
trained personnel. Intense competition occurs with respect to
marketing, particularly of natural gas. Certain competitors have
resources that substantially exceed those of Devon.

Seasonal Nature of Business

Generally, but not always, the demand for natural
gas decreases during the summer months and increases during the
winter months. Seasonal anomalies such as mild winters or hot
summers sometimes lessen this fluctuation. In addition,
pipelines, utilities, local distribution companies and
industrial users utilize natural gas storage facilities and
purchase some of their anticipated winter requirements during
the summer. This can also lessen seasonal demand fluctuations.

Government Regulation

Devon’s operations are subject to various
levels of government controls and regulations in the United
States, Canada and international locations in which it operates.

United States Regulation

In the United States, legislation affecting the
oil and gas industry has been pervasive and is under constant
review for amendment or expansion. Pursuant to such legislation,
numerous federal, state and local departments and agencies have
issued extensive rules and regulations binding on the oil and
gas industry and its individual members, some of which carry
substantial penalties for failure to comply. Such laws and
regulations have a significant impact on oil and gas drilling,
pipelines, gas processing plants and production activities,
increase the cost of doing business and, consequently, affect
profitability. Inasmuch as new legislation affecting the oil and
gas industry is commonplace and existing laws and regulations
are frequently amended or reinterpreted, Devon is unable to
predict the future cost or impact of complying with such laws
and regulations. Devon considers the cost of environmental
protection a necessary and manageable part of its business.
Devon has been able to plan for and comply with new
environmental initiatives without materially altering its
operating strategies.

Exploration and
Production.

Devon’s United States
operations are subject to various types of regulation at the
federal, state and local levels. Such regulation includes
requiring permits for the drilling of wells; maintaining bonding
requirements in order to drill or operate wells; implementing
spill prevention plans; submitting notification and receiving
permits relating to the presence, use and release of certain
materials incidental to oil and gas operations; and regulating
the location of wells, the method of drilling and casing wells,
the use, transportation, storage and disposal of fluids and
materials used in connection with drilling and production
activities, surface usage and the restoration of properties upon
which wells have been drilled, the plugging and abandoning of
wells and the transporting of production. Devon’s
operations are also subject to various conservation matters,
including the regulation of the size of drilling and spacing
units or proration units, the number of wells which may be
drilled in a unit, and the unitization or pooling of oil and gas
properties. In this regard, some states allow the forced pooling
or integration of tracts to facilitate exploration while other
states rely on voluntary pooling of lands and leases, which may
make it more difficult to develop oil and gas properties. In
addition, state conservation laws establish maximum rates of
production from oil and gas wells, generally limit the venting
or flaring of gas, and impose certain requirements regarding the
ratable purchase of production. The effect of these regulations
is to limit the amounts of oil and gas Devon can produce from
its wells and to limit the number of wells or the locations at
which Devon can drill.



Certain of Devon’s oil and gas leases,
including its offshore Gulf of Mexico leases, most of its leases
in the San Juan Basin and many of Devon’s leases in
southeast New Mexico, Montana and Wyoming, are granted by the
federal government and administered by various federal agencies,
including the Minerals Management Service of the Department of
the Interior (“MMS”). Such leases require compliance
with detailed federal regulations and orders which regulate,
among other matters, drilling and operations on lands covered by
these leases, and calculation and disbursement of royalty
payments to the federal government. The MMS has been
particularly active in recent years in evaluating and, in some
cases, promulgating new rules and regulations regarding
competitive lease bidding and royalty payment obligations for
production from federal lands. The Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission (“FERC”) also has jurisdiction over certain
offshore activities pursuant to the Outer Continental Shelf
Lands Act.

Environmental and Occupational
Regulations.

Various federal, state
and local laws and regulations concerning the discharge of
incidental materials into the environment, the generation,
storage, transportation and disposal of contaminants or
otherwise relating to the protection of public health, natural
resources, wildlife and the environment, affect Devon’s
exploration, development, processing, and production operations
and the costs attendant thereto. These laws and regulations
increase Devon’s overall operating expenses. Devon
maintains levels of insurance customary in the industry to limit
its financial exposure in the event of a substantial
environmental claim resulting from sudden, unanticipated and
accidental discharges of oil, salt water or other substances.
However, 100% coverage is not maintained concerning any
environmental claim, and no coverage is maintained with respect
to any penalty or fine required to be paid by Devon because of
its violation of any federal, state or local law. Devon is
committed to meeting its responsibilities to protect the
environment wherever it operates and anticipates making
increased expenditures of both a capital and expense nature as a
result of the increasingly stringent laws relating to the
protection of the environment. Devon’s unreimbursed
expenditures in 2003 concerning such matters were immaterial,
but Devon cannot predict with any reasonable degree of certainty
its future exposure concerning such matters.

Devon is also subject to laws and regulations
concerning occupational safety and health. Due to the continued
changes in these laws and regulations, and the judicial
construction of same, Devon is unable to predict with any
reasonable degree of certainty its future costs of complying
with these laws and regulations. Devon considers the cost of
safety and health compliance a necessary and manageable part of
its business. Devon has been able to plan for and comply with
new initiatives without materially altering its operating
strategies.

Devon maintains its own internal Environmental,
Health and Safety Department. This department is responsible for
instituting and maintaining an environmental and safety
compliance program for Devon. The program includes field
inspections of properties and internal assessments of
Devon’s compliance procedures.

Devon is subject to certain laws and regulations
relating to environmental remediation activities associated with
past operations, such as the Comprehensive Environmental
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (“CERCLA”)
and similar state statutes. In response to liabilities
associated with these activities, accruals have been established
when reasonable estimates are possible. Such accruals primarily
include estimated costs associated with remediation. Devon has
not used discounting in determining its accrued liabilities for
environmental remediation, and no material claims for possible
recovery from third party insurers or other parties related to
environmental costs have been recognized in Devon’s
consolidated financial statements. Devon adjusts the accruals
when new remediation responsibilities are discovered and
probable costs become estimable, or when current remediation
estimates must be adjusted to reflect new information.

Certain of Devon’s subsidiaries acquired in
past mergers are involved in matters in which it has been
alleged that such subsidiaries are potentially responsible
parties (“PRPs”) under CERCLA or similar state
legislation with respect to various waste disposal areas owned
or operated by third parties. As of December 31, 2003,
Devon’s consolidated balance sheet included $9 million
of non-current accrued liabilities, reflected in “Other
liabilities,” related to these and other environmental
remediation liabilities.



Devon does not currently believe there is a
reasonable possibility of incurring additional material costs in
excess of the current accruals recognized for such environmental
remediation activities. With respect to the sites in which Devon
subsidiaries are PRPs, Devon’s conclusion is based in large
part on (i) Devon’s participation in consent decrees
with both other PRPs and the Environmental Protection Agency,
which provide for performing the scope of work required for
remediation and contain covenants not to sue as protection to
the PRPs, (ii) participation in groups as a

de minimis
PRP,

and (iii) the availability of other defenses to
liability. As a result, Devon’s monetary exposure is not
expected to be material.

Canadian Regulations

The oil and gas industry in Canada is subject to
extensive controls and regulations imposed by various levels of
government. It is not expected that any of these controls or
regulations will affect Devon’s Canadian operations in a
manner materially different than they would affect other oil and
gas companies of similar size. The following are the most
important areas of control and regulation.

The North American Free Trade
Agreement.

The North American Free
Trade Agreement (“NAFTA”) which became effective on
January 1, 1994 carries forward most of the material energy
terms contained in the Canada-U.S. Free Trade Agreement. In
the context of energy resources, Canada continues to remain free
to determine whether exports to the United States or Mexico will
be allowed, provided that any export restrictions do not
(i) reduce the proportion of energy exported relative to
the supply of the energy resource; (ii) impose an export
price higher than the domestic price; or (iii) disrupt
normal channels of supply. All parties to NAFTA are also
prohibited from imposing minimum export or import price
requirements.

Exploration and
Production.

Devon’s Canadian
operations are subject to federal and provincial governmental
regulation. Such regulation include requiring licenses for the
drilling of wells, regulating the location of wells and the
method and ability to produce wells, surface usage and the
restoration of land upon which wells have been drilled, the
plugging and abandoning of wells and the transportation of
production from wells. Devon’s Canadian operations are also
subject to various conservation regulations, including the
regulation of the size of spacing units, the number of wells
which may be drilled in a unit, the unitization or pooling of
oil and gas properties, the rate of production allowable from
oil and gas wells, and the ability to produce oil and gas. In
Canada, the effect of such regulation is to limit the amounts of
oil and gas Devon can produce from its wells and to limit the
number of wells or the locations at which Devon can drill.

Royalties and
Incentives.

Each province and the
federal government of Canada have legislation and regulations
governing land tenure, royalties, production rates and taxes,
environmental protection and other matters under their
respective jurisdictions. The royalty regime is a significant
factor in the profitability of oil and natural gas production.
Royalties payable on production from lands other than Crown
lands are determined by negotiations between the parties. Crown
royalties are determined by government regulation and are
generally calculated as a percentage of the value of the gross
production with the royalty rate dependent in part upon
prescribed reference prices, well productivity, geographical
location, field discovery date and the type and quality of the
petroleum product produced. From time to time, the governments
of Canada, Alberta, British Columbia and Saskatchewan have also
established incentive programs such as royalty rate reductions,
royalty holidays and tax credits for the purpose of encouraging
oil and natural gas exploration or enhanced recovery projects.
These incentives generally have the effect of increasing the
cash flow to the producer.

Pricing and
Marketing.

The price of oil, natural
gas and NGLs sold is determined by negotiation between buyers
and sellers. An order from the National Energy Board
(“NEB”) is required for oil exports from Canada. Any
oil export to be made pursuant to an export contract of longer
than one year, in the case of light crude, and two years, in the
case of heavy crude, duration (up to 25 years) requires an
exporter to obtain an export license from the NEB. The issue of
such a license requires the approval of the Government of
Canada. Natural gas exported from Canada is also subject to
similar regulation by the NEB. Exporters are free to negotiate
prices and other terms with purchasers, provided that the export



contracts in excess of two years must continue to
meet certain criteria prescribed by the NEB. The governments of
Alberta and British Columbia also regulate the volume of natural
gas which may be removed from those provinces for consumption
elsewhere based on such factors as reserve availability,
transportation arrangements and market considerations.

Environmental
Regulation.

The oil and natural gas
industry is subject to environmental regulation pursuant to
local, provincial and federal legislation. Environmental
legislation provides for restrictions and prohibitions on
releases or emissions of various substances produced or utilized
in association with certain oil and gas industry operations. In
addition, legislation requires that well and facility sites be
abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of provincial
authorities. A breach of such legislation may result in the
imposition of fines and penalties. Devon is committed to meeting
its responsibilities to protect the environment wherever it
operates and anticipates making increased expenditures of both a
capital and expense nature as a result of the increasingly
stringent laws relating to the protection of the environment.
Devon’s unreimbursed expenditures in 2003 concerning such
matters were immaterial, but Devon cannot predict with any
reasonable degree of certainty its future exposure concerning
such matters.

Kyoto Protocol.

In
December 2002 the Government of Canada ratified the Kyoto
Protocol. This protocol calls for Canada to reduce its
greenhouse gas emissions to 6 percent below 1990 levels
during the period between 2008 and 2012. The protocol will only
become legally binding when it is ratified by at least 55
countries, covering at least 55 percent of the emissions
addressed by the protocol. At this time, it is uncertain if the
protocol will in fact be ratified. If the protocol becomes
legally binding, it is expected to affect the operation of all
industries in Canada, including the oil and gas industry. As
details of the implementation of emissions reduction initiatives
related to this protocol have yet to be announced, the effect on
Devon cannot be determined at this time.

Investment Canada
Act.

The Investment Canada Act
requires Government of Canada approval, in certain cases, of the
acquisition of control of a Canadian business by an entity that
is not controlled by Canadians. In certain circumstances, the
acquisition of natural resource properties may be considered to
be a transaction requiring such approval.

International Regulations

The oil and gas industry is subject to various
types of regulation throughout the world. Legislation affecting
the oil and gas industry has been pervasive and is under
constant review for amendment or expansion. Pursuant to such
legislation, government agencies have issued extensive rules and
regulations binding on the oil and gas industry and its
individual members, some of which carry substantial penalties
for failure to comply. Such laws and regulations have a
significant impact on oil and gas exploration, drilling and
production activities, increase the cost of doing business and,
consequently, affect profitability. Inasmuch as new legislation
affecting the oil and gas industry is commonplace and existing
laws and regulations are frequently amended or reinterpreted,
Devon is unable to predict the future cost or impact of
complying with such laws and regulations. The following are
significant areas of regulation.

Exploration and
Production.

Devon’s oil and gas
concessions and operating licenses or permits are granted by
host governments and administered by various foreign government
agencies. Such foreign governments require compliance with
detailed regulations and orders which regulate, among other
matters, seismic, drilling and production operations on areas
covered by concessions and permits and calculation and
disbursement of royalty payments, taxes and minimum investments
to the government.

Regulation includes requiring permits for
acquiring seismic data; drilling wells; maintaining bonding
requirements in order to drill or operate wells; implementing
spill prevention plans; submitting notification and receiving
permits relating to the presence, use and release of certain
materials incidental to oil and gas operations; and regulating
the location of wells, the method of drilling and casing wells,
the use, transportation, storage and disposal of fluids and
materials used in connection with drilling and production
activities, surface usage and the restoration of properties upon
which wells have been drilled, the plugging and abandoning of
wells and the transporting of production. Devon’s
operations are also subject to regulations which may limit the
number of wells or the locations at which Devon can drill.



Production Sharing
Contracts.

Many of Devon’s
international licenses are governed by Production Sharing
Contracts (PSC) between the concessionaires and the
granting government agency. PSCs are contracts that define and
regulate the framework for investments, revenue sharing, and
taxation of mineral interests in foreign countries. Unlike most
domestic leases, PSCs have defined production terms and time
limits of generally 30 years. Many PSCs allow for recovery
of investments including carried government percentages. PSCs
generally contain sliding scale revenue sharing provisions. For
example, at either higher production rates or higher cumulative
rates of return, PSCs allow governments to generally retain
higher fractions of revenue.

Environmental
Regulations.

Various government laws
and regulations concerning the discharge of incidental materials
into the environment, the generation, storage, transportation
and disposal of waste or otherwise relating to the protection of
public health, natural resources, wildlife and the environment,
affect Devon’s exploration, development, processing and
production operations and the costs attendant thereto. In
general, this consists of preparing Environmental Impact
Assessments in order to receive required environmental permits
to conduct seismic acquisition, drilling or construction
activities. Such regulations also typically include requirements
to develop emergency response plans, waste management plans,
environmental protection plans and spill contingency plans. In
some countries, the application of worldwide standards, such as
ISO 14000 governing Environmental Management Systems, are
required to be implemented for international oil and gas
operations.

Employees

As of December 31, 2003, Devon’s staff
consisted of 3,924 full-time employees. Devon believes that
it has good labor relations with its employees.

Item 2.

Properties

Substantially all of Devon’s properties
consist of interests in developed and undeveloped oil and gas
leases and mineral acreage located in Devon’s core
operating areas. These interests entitle Devon to drill for and
produce oil, natural gas and NGLs from specific areas.
Devon’s interests are mostly in the form of working
interests and, to a lesser extent, overriding royalty,
volumetric production payments, foreign government concessions,
mineral and net profits interests and other forms of direct and
indirect ownership in oil and gas properties.

Devon also has certain midstream assets,
including natural gas and NGL processing plants and pipeline
systems. Devon’s most significant midstream assets are its
3,100 mile Bridgeport pipeline system and 650 MMcf per
day Bridgeport gas processing plant located in North Texas.

Proved Reserves and Estimated Future Net
Revenue

Set forth below is a summary of the reserves
which were evaluated by independent petroleum consultants for
each of the years ended 2003, 2002 and 2001.

“Prepared” reserves are those estimates
of quantities of reserves which were prepared by an independent
petroleum consultant. “Audited” reserves are those
quantities of reserves which were estimated by Devon employees
and audited by an independent petroleum consultant.

The domestic reserves were evaluated by the
independent petroleum consultants of LaRoche Petroleum
Consultants, Ltd. and Ryder Scott Company, L.P. in each of the
years presented. The Canadian reserves were evaluated by the
independent petroleum consultants of AJM Petroleum



Consultants in 2003 and 2002, and Paddock
Lindstrom & Associates and Gilbert Laustsen Jung
Associates, Ltd. in 2001. The International reserves were
evaluated by the independent petroleum consultants of Ryder
Scott Company, L.P. in each of the years presented.

Devon follows what it believes to be a rational
approach to not only recording oil and gas reserves, but also to
subjecting these reserves to reviews by independent petroleum
consultants. The reserve estimates for all of our Gulf of Mexico
and international properties are prepared by an independent
petroleum consulting firm every year (excluding 2% of
Devon’s 2003 international reserves that were estimated by
in-house engineers). In Canada, another independent petroleum
consulting firm prepares a rolling one-third of our properties
each year so that the reserve estimates for all the Canadian
properties are prepared by outside engineers over a three-year
cycle.

For the U.S. onshore properties, reserve
estimates of individually significant properties are either
prepared or audited by an independent petroleum consulting firm,
while estimates of minor properties are prepared by in-house
engineers. This approach results in independent engineers
preparing or auditing over 50% of our U.S. onshore reserves
each year.

Over any three-year period, more than 95% of
Devon’s company-wide reserve estimates are prepared or
audited by an independent petroleum consulting firm. Devon
believes this approach provides a high degree of assurance about
the validity of our reserve estimates. This is evidenced by the
fact that in the past four years, Devon’s annual revisions
to its reserve estimates have averaged approximately 2% of the
previous year’s estimate.

The following table sets forth Devon’s
estimated proved reserves and the related estimated future net
revenues, pre-tax 10% Present Value and after-tax standardized
measure of discounted future net cash flows as of
December 31, 2003. These estimates correspond with the
method used in presenting the “Supplemental Information on
Oil and Gas Operations” in Note 18 to Devon’s
Consolidated Financial Statements included herein.



(1)

Gas reserves are converted to Boe at the rate of
    six Mcf per Bbl of oil, based upon the approximate relative
    energy content of natural gas to oil, which rate is not
    necessarily indicative of the relationship of gas to oil prices.
    NGL reserves are converted to Boe on a one-to-one basis with
    oil. The respective prices of gas and oil are affected by market
    conditions and other factors in addition to relative energy
    content.

(2)

Estimated future net revenue represents estimated
    future gross revenue to be generated from the production of
    proved reserves, net of estimated production and development
    costs. The amounts shown do not give effect to non-property
    related expenses such as debt service and future income tax
    expense or to depreciation, depletion and amortization.

These amounts were calculated using prices and
    costs in effect as of December 31, 2003. These prices were
    not changed except where different prices were fixed and
    determinable from applicable contracts. These assumptions yield
    average prices over the life of Devon’s properties of
    $27.55 per Bbl of oil, $5.18 per Mcf of natural gas
    and $21.22 per Bbl of NGLs. These prices compare to
    December 31, 2003, New York Mercantile Exchange prices
    of $32.52 per Bbl for crude oil and $5.97 per MMBtu
    for natural gas.

(3)

See Note 18 to the consolidated financial
    statements included in Item 8 of this report.

No estimates of Devon’s proved reserves have
been filed with or included in reports to any federal or foreign
governmental authority or agency since the beginning of the last
fiscal year except (i) in filings with the SEC and Canadian
Securities Regulators and (ii) in filings with the
Department of Energy (“DOE”). Reserve estimates filed
by Devon with the SEC and Canadian Securities Regulators
correspond with the estimates of Devon reserves contained
herein. Reserve estimates filed with the DOE are based upon the
same underlying technical and economic assumptions as the
estimates of Devon’s reserves included herein. However, the
DOE requires reports to include the interests of all owners in
wells that Devon operates and to exclude all interests in wells
that Devon does not operate.

The prices used in calculating the estimated
future net revenues attributable to proved reserves do not
necessarily reflect market prices for oil, gas and NGL
production subsequent to December 31, 2003. There



can be no assurance that all of the proved
reserves will be produced and sold within the periods indicated,
that the assumed prices will be realized or that existing
contracts will be honored or judicially enforced.

The process of estimating oil, gas and NGLs
reserves is complex, requiring significant subjective decisions
in the evaluation of available geological, engineering and
economic data for each reservoir. The data for a given reservoir
may change substantially over time as a result of, among other
things, additional development activity, production history and
viability of production under varying economic conditions.
Consequently, material revisions to existing reserve estimates
may occur in the future.

Production, Revenue and Price
History

Certain information concerning oil and natural
gas production, prices, revenues (net of all royalties,
overriding royalties and other third party interests) and
operating expenses for the three years ended December 31,
2003, is set forth in “Item 7. Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations”.

Well Statistics

The following table sets forth Devon’s
producing wells as of December 31, 2003:

(1)

Gross wells are the total number of wells in
    which Devon owns a working interest.

(2)

Net refers to gross wells multiplied by
    Devon’s fractional working interests therein.

Devon also held numerous overriding royalty
interests in oil and gas wells, a portion of which are
convertible to working interests after recovery of certain costs
by third parties. After converting to working interests, these
overriding royalty interests will be included in Devon’s
gross and net well count.

Developed and Undeveloped Acreage

The following table sets forth Devon’s
developed and undeveloped oil and gas lease and mineral acreage
as of December 31, 2003.



(1)

Gross acres are the total number of acres in
    which Devon owns a working interest.

(2)

Net refers to gross acres multiplied by
    Devon’s fractional working interests therein.

Operation of Properties

The day-to-day operation of oil and gas
properties are the responsibility of an operator designated
under pooling or operating agreements. The operator supervises
production, maintains production records, employs field
personnel and performs other functions. The charges under
operating agreements customarily vary with the depth and
location of the well being operated.

Devon is the operator of 18,037 of its wells. As
operator, Devon receives reimbursement for direct expenses
incurred in the performance of its duties as well as monthly
per-well producing and drilling overhead reimbursement at rates
customarily charged in the area. In presenting its financial
data, Devon records the monthly overhead reimbursements as a
reduction of general and administrative expense, which is a
common industry practice.

Organization Structure

Devon’s North American properties are
concentrated within five geographic areas. Operations in the
United States are focused in the Permian Basin, the
Mid-Continent, the Rocky Mountains and onshore and offshore Gulf
Coast regions. Canadian operations are focused in the
Western Canadian Sedimentary Basin in Alberta and British
Columbia. Operations outside North America currently
include Azerbaijan, Brazil, China, Egypt, Indonesia, Russia,
Syria, and areas in West Africa, including Equatorial
Guinea, Gabon, Cote d’Ivoire, Nigeria and Angola.
Maintaining a tight geographic focus in selected core areas has
allowed Devon to improve operating and capital efficiency.

The following table sets forth proved reserve
information on the most significant geographic areas in which
Devon’s properties are located as of December 31, 2003.

(1)

Gas reserves are converted to Boe at the rate of
    six Mcf of gas per Bbl of oil, based upon the
    approximate relative energy content of natural gas to oil, which
    rate is not necessarily indicative of the relationship of gas to
    oil prices. NGL reserves are converted to Boe on a one-to-one
    basis with oil. The respective prices of gas and oil are
    affected by market and other factors in addition to relative
    energy content.

(2)

Percentage which MMBoe for the basin or region
    bears to total MMBoe for all proved reserves.



United States

Permian Basin

Devon’s Permian Basin assets are located in
portions of Southeast New Mexico and West Texas. These
assets include conventional oil and gas properties from a wide
variety of geologic formations and productive depths. The
Permian Basin represented 8% of Devon’s proved reserves at
December 31, 2003.

Devon’s leasehold position in Southeast
New Mexico encompasses more than 102,000 acres of
developed lands and 237,000 acres of undeveloped land and
minerals. Historically, Devon has been a very active operator in
this area developing gas from the high productivity Morrow
formation and oil in the lower risk Delaware formation.

In the West Texas area of the Permian Basin,
Devon maintains a base of oil production with long-life
reserves. Many of these reserves are from both operated and
non-operated positions in large enhanced oil recovery units such
as the Wasson ODC Unit, the Willard Unit, the Reeves Unit,
the North Welch Unit and the Anton Irish (Clearfork) Unit. These
oil-producing units often exhibit low decline rates. Devon also
owns a significant acreage position in West Texas with over
194,000 acres of developed lands and over
224,000 acres of undeveloped land and minerals at
December 31, 2003.

Mid-Continent

The Mid-Continent region includes portions of
Texas, Oklahoma and Kansas. These areas encompass a wide variety
of geologic formations and productive depths and produce both
oil and natural gas. Devon’s Mid-Continent production has
historically come from conventional oil and gas properties.
However, the Barnett Shale, acquired in our 2002 merger with
Mitchell Energy, is a non-conventional gas resource. The
Mid-Continent region represented 19% of Devon’s proved
reserves at December 31, 2003. Approximately 76% of
Devon’s proved reserves in the Mid-Continent area are in
the Barnett Shale.

The Barnett Shale, Devon’s largest producing
field, is known as a tight gas formation. This means that, in
its natural state, the formation is resistant to the production
of natural gas. Mitchell spent decades understanding how to
efficiently develop and produce this gas. The resulting
technology has yielded a low-risk and highly profitable natural
gas operation. Devon holds 525,000 net acres and nearly
1,600 producing wells in the Barnett Shale. Devon’s average
working interest is approximately 95%.

Devon has experienced success extracting gas from
the Barnett Shale by using light sand fracturing. Light sand
fracturing yields better results than earlier techniques, is
less expensive and can be used to complete new wells and to
refracture existing wells. Refractured wells often exceed their
original flow rates. Devon is also applying horizontal drilling
and closer well spacing to further enhance the value of the
Barnett Shale.

Devon’s marketing and midstream operations
transport and process its Barnett Shale production along with
Barnett Shale production from unrelated third parties. The
transport system consists of approximately 3,100 miles of
pipeline, a 650 MMcf per day gas processing plant, and a
15,000 Bbls per day NGL fractionator.

In 2004, Devon plans to drill a total of 192 new
Barnett Shale wells including 94 horizontals and
98 verticals. More than half of the horizontal wells will
be drilled outside the core development area in an



effort to further expand the productive area of
the field. The Barnett Shale is expected to continue to be an
important producing area for Devon for the foreseeable future.
Current production from the Barnett Shale is approximately
428 MMcf and 24,100 Bbls of oil and NGLs per day net.

Rocky Mountains

Devon’s operations in the Rocky Mountain
region include properties in Wyoming, Montana, Utah, and
Northern New Mexico. These assets include conventional oil and
gas properties and coalbed methane projects. As of
December 31, 2003, the Rocky Mountain region comprised 9%
of Devon’s proved reserves.

Approximately 38% of Devon’s proved reserves
in the Rocky Mountains are from coalbed methane. Devon began
producing coalbed methane in the San Juan Basin of New
Mexico in the mid-1980s and began drilling coalbed methane wells
in the Powder River Basin of Wyoming in 1998. As of
December 31, 2003, Devon has drilled 1,600 coalbed
methane wells in the Powder River Basin. Devon’s net
coalbed methane gas production from the basin was approximately
88 MMcf per day as of December 31, 2003, and Devon
plans to drill 110 new wells in the Powder River Basin in
2004. Current production in the basin is primarily from the
Wyodak coal formation. Development of the deeper Big George
formation could significantly expand the coalbed methane play
into the western portion of the Powder River Basin. The recently
approved federal Environmental Impact Statement should
facilitate development of the deeper formation. Eighty-five of
the wells planned in 2004 target these deeper coals.

Devon’s most significant conventional gas
project in the Rocky Mountains region is the Washakie field in
Wyoming. Devon is continuing to develop and grow production from
this field. In 2003, Devon drilled 38 wells and plans to
drill another 40 wells in 2004. Devon has interests in over
200,000 acres. Devon’s current net production from
Washakie is approximately 81 MMcf and 1,000 Bbls of
oil and NGLs per day.

Gulf Coast

Devon’s Gulf Coast properties are located in
South and East Texas, Louisiana and Mississippi. Most of the
wells in the region are completed in conventional sandstone
formations. At December 31, 2003, the Gulf Coast accounted
for approximately 10% of Devon’s proved reserves.

Devon’s operations in South Texas have
focused on exploration in the Edwards, Wilcox and Frio/
Vicksburg formations. Devon has high working interests, up to
100%, in several producing fields.

East Texas is an important conventional gas
producing region for Devon. Carthage/ Bethany and Groesbeck are
two of the primary producing areas. Wells produce from the
Cotton Valley sands, the Travis Peak sands and from shallower
sands and carbonates. Devon operates over 1,300 producing wells
in East Texas and is currently employing a five-rig drilling and
recompletion program to continue low-risk, infill development
throughout the area. Devon’s current net production from
east Texas is about 187 MMcf and 8,000 Bbls of oil and
NGLs per day.

Gulf of Mexico

The offshore Gulf of Mexico accounted for 17% of
Devon’s 2003 production and 11% of year-end proved
reserves. Devon is among the largest independent oil and gas
producers in the Gulf of Mexico and operates 450 platforms and
caissons. The 2003 merger with Ocean more than tripled
Devon’s Gulf reserves. Gulf of Mexico operations are
typically differentiated by water depth. The shelf is defined by
water depths of 600 feet or less. The deepwater is at
depths beyond 600 feet. Devon has active development and
drilling programs ongoing in both the shelf and deepwater areas.

In the Ocean merger, Devon acquired interests in
the Nansen/ Boomvang complex in the East Breaks area of the
deepwater Gulf of Mexico. Devon acquired a 50% working interest
in the Nansen field and a 20% interest in the Boomvang field.
Ocean established oil and natural gas production at Nansen/
Boomvang in 2002. The Nansen and Boomvang production spars have
a combined daily production



capacity of 80,000 Bbls of oil and
400 MMcf of gas. Devon’s share of current production
from the fields is about 21,000 Bbls of oil and
120 MMcf of gas per day.

Ocean had two additional deepwater development
projects under construction in 2003. Redhawk (Garden Banks 876)
is expected to commence production in the second half of 2004.
Devon has a 50% working interest in Redhawk and estimates net
production at about 10,000 Boe per day. Magnolia (Garden Banks
783) is expected to commence production near year-end 2004.
Devon has a 25% working interest in this project. Net production
is estimated at between 9,000 and 12,000 Boe per day.

In the deepwater of the Gulf of Mexico, Devon
drilled two exploratory discovery wells in 2003. The Sturgis
well (Atwater Valley 182) found more than 100 net feet of
oil pay sands. Sturgis, in 3,700 feet of water, was the
second well in Devon’s four-well joint venture with
ChevronTexaco. Upon completion of the fourth well, Devon will
earn a 25% working interest in 71 deepwater blocks. The fourth
well is planned for early 2004.

The second deepwater discovery in 2003 was at
St. Malo (Walker Ridge 678). St. Malo, in
6,900 feet of water, encountered more than 450 net
feet of oil pay. St. Malo and the previously announced Cascade
discovery (Walker Ridge 206) are located in the lower
Tertiary trend. Based on early evidence, the lower Tertiary
trend may hold significant reserve potential. Devon plans to
drill appraisal wells to better define the St. Malo and Cascade
discoveries in the first half of 2004. Devon also plans to drill
an appraisal well to the Sturgis discovery and additional lower
Tertiary exploratory wells during 2004.

In 2003, Devon had a notable shelf discovery on
its Grays prospect (Galveston block 424). Three producing
wells from this discovery were brought on production in early
2004 at approximately 27 MMcf per day net to Devon’s
interest.

The federal government is encouraging Gulf of
Mexico operators to drill deep shelf wells, wells drilled on the
shelf to a depth greater than 15,000 feet, through a
reduced royalty incentive program. Devon plans to drill 10 to 12
deep shelf wells in 2004.

Canada

Devon is among the largest independent oil and
gas producers in Canada and operates in most of the producing
basins in Western Canada. As of December 31, 2003, 28% of
Devon’s proved reserves were Canadian. Many of the Canadian
basins where Devon operates are accessible for drilling only in
the winter when the ground is frozen. Consequently, the winter
season, from December through March, is the most active drilling
period.

Devon expects to drill about 400 wells in
the 2003-2004 winter program and spend $360 million, or
nearly half of the full year Canadian capital budget. The winter
drilling is focused on three major areas: the Deep Basin,
Northeastern British Columbia and the Northern Plains of
Alberta. In the Deep Basin, plans call for 106 wells
compared with 71 wells last winter. In Northeastern B.C.,
93 wells are planned, compared with 73 the previous winter.
In the Northern Plains, we expect to drill more than
100 wells this winter, compared with 76 wells a year
ago.

The Anderson acquisition in 2001 significantly
strengthened Devon’s holdings in the Deep Basin of Western
Alberta. Devon had sought for years to obtain a significant
acreage position in the Deep Basin, but other operators,
including Anderson, already controlled most of the acreage. As a
result of the Anderson acquisition, Devon now holds over
800,000 net acres in the Deep Basin. The profitability of
Devon’s operations in the Deep Basin is enhanced by its
ownership in nine gas processing plants in the area. Devon plans
to drill about 193 total wells in the Deep Basin in 2004. Deep
Basin reservoirs tend to be rich in liquids, producing up to 100
barrels of NGLs with each MMcf of gas.

In 2002, Devon commenced production from the
first of several wells it has drilled in the Grizzly Valley area
of the Foothills Region of Northeastern British Columbia. Due to
gas pipeline and processing limitations, initial production was
limited to about 10 MMcf of gas per day. However, a
pipeline extension completed in 2003 allowed Devon to increase
production from this area to about 30 MMcf per day. With



the pipeline extension complete, Devon can
continue to tie in additional wells in the area. Net production
from the entire Foothills region is approximately 130 MMcf
of gas per day.

Devon also acquired from Anderson approximately
1.5 million net acres in the MacKenzie Delta region and the
shallow waters of the Beaufort Sea in Northern Canada. In 2002,
a Devon well in the MacKenzie Delta encountered over
110 feet of natural gas pay. Production of this gas awaits
an export pipeline to markets in Canada and the United States.
Various industry proposals suggest that a pipeline could be
built later in the decade.

Devon also drills for and produces
“cold-flow” heavy oil in the Lloydminster area of
Alberta and Saskatchewan where oil is found in multiple horizons
generally at depths of 1,000 to 2,000 feet. In 2003, Devon
drilled 263 wells in the Lloydminster area. Average net
daily production from the area is approximately 34 MMcf of
natural gas and 13,300 Bbls of crude oil.

Devon also owns a 13% working interest in the
ConocoPhillips-operated Surmont thermal heavy oil project.
Surmont, located north of Jackfish, is designed to produce up to
100,000 barrels of heavy oil per day by 2012. Surmont will also
apply SAGD recovery technology.

International

The Ocean merger more than doubled Devon’s
oil and gas reserves outside North America. At December 31,
2003, these international countries accounted for 15% of
Devon’s worldwide proved reserves. Most significant was
Ocean’s 24% working interest in the Exxon-Mobil-operated
Zafiro field, offshore Equatorial Guinea in West Africa. During
2003, production from Zafiro increased significantly due to the
addition of the Southern Expansion Area (SEA) in July.
Production from the SEA increased total field capacity to
300,000 barrels of oil per day. Devon’s net share increased
by about 15,000 barrels to more than 50,000 barrels per day.
Devon’s production from Zafiro is expected to decline by
about 7,000 barrels per day in the second quarter of 2004. The
decline will occur when Devon reaches payout of a portion of its
investment in the project and the government’s share of
production increases.

Devon experienced another boost in international
production in 2003 when its Panyu project offshore China
commenced production late in the year. Panyu, in the Pearl River
Mouth of the South China Sea, was discovered in 1998. In early
2004, production from the first eight of 27 planned wells
reached 50,000 barrels per day. Devon has a 24.5% working
interest in the project and expects its share of production to
average about 16,000 barrels per day in 2004.

In Azerbaijan in the Caspian Sea, Devon has a
5.6% carried working interest in the Azeri-Chirag-Gunashli, or
ACG, oil development project. Devon estimates that the ACG field
contains over 4.6 billion barrels of gross proved oil
reserves. Oil production from the ACG field will increase
dramatically upon completion of the Baku-T’Bilisi-Ceyhan
pipeline, which is planned for 2005. Devon’s net share is
expected to peak at about 50,000 barrels per day in 2008 or 2009.

Devon also acquired minor producing properties in
the Ocean merger in Cote d’Ivoire, Egypt, Indonesia and
Russia. Ocean also held exploratory blocks in Angola, Brazil,
Equatorial Guinea, Nigeria and Syria. Devon plans to drill
exploratory wells in each of the aforementioned countries,
except Cote d’Ivoire and Indonesia, in 2004. Devon also
produces oil and holds exploratory blocks in Gabon.

Title to Properties

Title to properties is subject to contractual
arrangements customary in the oil and gas industry, liens for
current taxes not yet due and, in some instances, other
encumbrances. Devon believes that such burdens do not materially
detract from the value of such properties or from the respective
interests therein or materially interfere with their use in the
operation of the business.

As is customary in the industry in the case of
undeveloped properties, little investigation of record title is
made at the time of acquisition (other than a preliminary review
of local records). Investigations,



generally including a title opinion of outside
counsel, are made prior to the consummation of an acquisition of
producing properties and before commencement of drilling
operations on undeveloped properties.

Item 3.

Legal Proceedings

Royalty Matters

Numerous gas producers and related parties,
including Devon, have been named in various lawsuits alleging
violation of the federal False Claims Act. The suits allege that
the producers and related parties used below-market prices,
improper deductions, improper measurement techniques and
transactions with affiliates which resulted in underpayment of
royalties in connection with natural gas and natural gas liquids
produced and sold from federal and Indian owned or controlled
lands. The principal suit in which Devon is a defendant is

United States ex rel. Wright v. Chevron USA, Inc.
et al.

(the

“Wright

case”). The suit
was originally filed in August 1996 in the United States
District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, but was
consolidated in October 2000 with the other suits for pre-trial
proceedings in the United States District Court for the District
of Wyoming. On July 10, 2003, the District of Wyoming
remanded the

Wright

case back to the Eastern District of
Texas to resume proceedings. Devon believes that it has acted
reasonably, has legitimate and strong defenses to all
allegations in the suit, and has paid royalties in good faith.
Devon does not currently believe that it is subject to material
exposure in association with this lawsuit and no liability has
been recorded in connection therewith.

Devon is a defendant in certain private royalty
owner litigation filed in Wyoming regarding deductibility of
certain post production costs from royalties payable by Devon.
The plaintiffs in these lawsuits propose to expand them into
county or state-wide class actions relating specifically to
transportation and related costs associated with Devon’s
Wyoming gas production. A significant portion of such production
is, or will be, transported through facilities owned by Thunder
Creek Gas Services, L.L.C., of which Devon owns a 75% interest.
Devon believes that it has acted reasonably and paid royalties
in good faith and in accordance with its obligations under its
oil and gas leases and applicable law, and Devon does not
believe that it is subject to material exposure in association
with this litigation.

Tax Treatment of Exchangeable
Debentures

As described more fully in Note 8 to the
consolidated financial statements included in “Item 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this
report, Devon has certain exchangeable debentures, with a
principal amount totaling $760 million, which are
exchangeable at the option of the holders into shares of
ChevronTexaco common stock owned by Devon. The debentures were
assumed, and the ChevronTexaco common stock was acquired, by
Devon in the 1999 PennzEnergy merger.

The Internal Revenue Service is currently
examining the 1998 income tax return of PennzEnergy’s
predecessor. In draft notices, the IRS has disagreed with
certain tax treatments of the exchangeable debentures and
similar exchangeable debentures retired in 1998. The IRS has not
yet formally asserted a claim for additional taxes for 1998
related to the exchangeable debentures, but Devon believes it is
probable that such an assertion will eventually be made.

Based upon the draft notices received from the
IRS, Devon estimates that if the IRS formally asserts a claim
for additional taxes for 1998 as a result of its current
examination, the amount of such claim would approximate
$68 million.

Devon does not agree with the positions that have
been taken by the IRS in its draft documents, and will
vigorously contest any claim of additional taxes. Although the
outcome of this matter cannot be predicted with certainty,
Devon, after consultation with legal counsel, believes that if
the IRS formally asserts a claim for additional taxes regarding
the treatment of the exchangeable debentures, Devon would likely
prevail. Even if the IRS prevailed in this matter, Devon
believes that any related increase in its 1998 taxable income
would increase its tax basis in the ChevronTexaco common stock,
or produce a similar tax benefit, and would therefore result in
offsetting tax deductions in future taxable years upon the
disposal of the ChevronTexaco common stock. Therefore, while the
payment of any such additional taxes would



reduce Devon’s operating cash flow in the
year of payment, it would not affect Devon’s net earnings
for any period, and the operating cash flow effect would reverse
in future years.

If the IRS ultimately prevailed in this matter,
any interest owed by Devon on such additional taxes would
negatively impact Devon’s operating cash flow and net
earnings. However, Devon does not believe that such impact would
be material to Devon’s financial condition or results of
operations.

Other Matters

Devon is involved in other various routine legal
proceedings incidental to its business. However, to Devon’s
knowledge as of the date of this report, there were no other
material pending legal proceedings to which Devon is a party or
to which any of its property is subject.

Item 4.

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
    Holders

There were no matters submitted to a vote of
security holders during the fourth quarter of 2003.



PART II

Item 5.

Market for Registrant’s Common Equity,
    Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
    Securities

Market Price

Devon’s common stock has been traded on the
American Stock Exchange (the “AMEX”) since
September 29, 1988. Prior to September 29, 1988,
Devon’s common stock was privately held. Commencing on
December 15, 1998, a new class of Devon exchangeable shares
began trading on The Toronto Stock Exchange (“TSE”)
under the symbol “NSX”. These shares are essentially
equivalent to Devon common stock. However, because they are
issued by Devon’s wholly owned subsidiary, Northstar, they
qualify as a domestic Canadian investment for Canadian
shareholders. They are exchangeable at any time, on a
one-for-one basis, for common shares of Devon at the
holder’s option.

The following table sets forth the high and low
sales prices for Devon common stock and exchangeable shares as
reported by the AMEX and TSE for the periods indicated.

Dividends

Devon commenced the payment of regular quarterly
cash dividends on its common stock on June 30, 1993, in the
amount of $0.03 per share. Effective December 31,
1996, Devon increased its quarterly dividend payment to
$0.05 per share. Effective March 31, 2004, Devon
increased its quarterly dividend payment to $0.10 per share.

Devon anticipates continuing to pay regular
quarterly dividends in the foreseeable future. Dividends are
also paid on the exchangeable shares at the same rate and on the
same dates as dividends paid on the common stock.

On February 29, 2004, there were 21,341
holders of record of Devon common stock and 578 holders of
record for the exchangeable shares.



Item 6.

Selected Financial Data

The following selected financial information (not
covered by the independent auditors’ report) should be read
in conjunction with “Item 7. Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations,” and the consolidated financial statements and
the notes thereto included in “Item 8. Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data.” Note 2 to the
consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of
this report contains information on mergers and acquisitions
which occurred in 2003 and 2002, as well as unaudited pro forma
financial data for the years 2003 and 2002. Note 16 to the
consolidated financial statements included in Item 8
contains information on operations which were discontinued in
2002.



(1)

Devon acquired another entity via a merger in
    2000, which was accounted for using the pooling-of-interests
    method of accounting for business combinations. This accounting
    method required Devon to report the results of both companies as
    if they had always been combined. Therefore, the cash dividends
    per share presented through 2000 are not representative of the
    actual amounts paid by Devon on a historical basis. For the
    years 1999 and 2000, Devon’s historical cash dividends per
    share were $0.20 in each year.

(2)

For purposes of calculating the ratio of earnings
    to fixed charges and the ratio of earnings to combined fixed
    charges and preferred stock dividends, (i) earnings consist
    of earnings before income taxes, plus fixed charges;
    (ii) fixed charges consist of interest expense, dividends
    on subsidiary’s preferred stock, distributions on preferred
    securities of subsidiary trust, amortization of costs relating
    to indebtedness and the preferred securities of subsidiary
    trust, and one-third of rental expense estimated to be
    attributable to interest; and (iii) preferred stock
    dividends consist of the amount of pre-tax earnings required to
    pay dividends on the outstanding preferred stock. For the years
    2002 and 1999, earnings were insufficient to cover fixed charges
    by $135 million and $264 million, respectively.



For the years 2002 and 1999, earnings were
    insufficient to cover combined fixed charges and preferred stock
    dividends by $151 million and $270 million,
    respectively.

(3)

The preceding production, price and other data
    exclude the amounts related to discontinued operations for all
    periods presented. The preceding price data includes the effect
    of hedges.

(4)

Gas volumes are converted to Boe at the rate of
    six Mcf of gas per barrel of oil, based upon the approximate
    relative energy content of natural gas and oil, which rate is
    not necessarily indicative of the relationship of oil and gas
    prices. NGL volumes are converted to Boe on a one-to-one basis
    with oil. The respective prices of oil, gas and NGLs are
    affected by market and other factors in addition to relative
    energy content.

Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis
    of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The following discussion and analysis addresses
changes in Devon’s financial condition and results of
operations during the three-year period of 2001 through 2003.
Reference is made to “Item 6. Selected Financial
Data” and “Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data.”

Overview

On April 25, 2003, Devon supplemented its
property portfolio and improved its growth outlook with the
Ocean merger. Former Ocean shareholders received 74 million
new Devon common shares in exchange for their Ocean shares.
Ocean enhances our current production profile and provides
outstanding prospects for growth. We have substantially
integrated the Devon and Ocean organizations and consolidated
all our Houston area employees at our downtown Houston location.

2003 was a record-breaking year for Devon. We
produced 228 million Boe, the highest annual production in
its history. Devon’s marketing and midstream operations
also contributed $286 million to operating margins. Total
revenues for 2003 exceeded $7 billion, and led to record
profits and operating cash flow. Devon delivered the highest net
earnings, $1.7 billion, and earnings per diluted share,
$8.07, in its 15 years as a public company.

Cash flow from operations was $3.8 billion
for the year. This allowed Devon to fully fund our
$2.6 billion of capital expenditures, retire over
$500 million in long-term debt and add almost
$1 billion to cash on hand. We are continuing to accumulate
cash with the intent to repay debt as it matures in 2004 and
subsequent years.

The significant increase in revenues and earnings
resulted from both production growth and higher commodity
prices. Production increased 40 million Boe, or 21%, due
both to the Ocean merger and the impact of Devon’s
exploration and development activities. On a pro forma basis, as
if the merger had been completed on January 1, 2002, Devon
increased production from retained properties year-over-year by
5.5%. Average oil, gas and NGL prices increased 18%, 61% and
33%, respectively from 2002 to 2003. Devon’s current price
outlook assumes that, over the next few years, oil prices will
decline toward the OPEC stated price range of $22 to
$28 per barrel of oil from over $30 per barrel today
and that natural gas prices will remain in a range of $3 to
$5 per MMBtu for the foreseeable future. Historically, the
OPEC basket price has been approximately $2 per barrel less
than the NYMEX price.

In addition to dramatically increasing production
and revenues, the Ocean merger increased expenses in most
categories. Furthermore, higher oil, gas and NGL prices have led
to upward pressure on many of Devon’s expenses such as
power and fuel. Higher oil and gas prices have also led to
higher demand for oilfield supplies and services, and have often
caused increases in the costs of such goods and services.
However, these same commodity price increases have also resulted
in higher costs that are opportunity-driven. For example, with
the increase in oil, gas and NGL prices, more well workovers and
repairs and maintenance costs can be profitably performed to
maintain or increase production volumes.

Additionally, the weakening of the
U.S. dollar versus the Canadian dollar caused increases in
all of our Canadian dollar expenses as expressed in
U.S. dollars. This contributed approximately
$88 million in aggregate, or $0.39 per Boe, of
increase in 2003 production and operating costs, depreciation,
depletion and



amortization expenses and general and
administrative expenses. Based on Devon’s assumption that
the average Canadian-to-U.S. dollar exchange rate will
increase from $0.7160 in 2003 to $0.7600 in 2004, the exchange
rate effect would increase these expense categories another
$58 million, or $0.23 per Boe from 2003 to 2004.

Because oil, gas and NGL prices are influenced by
many factors outside of its control, Devon’s management has
focused its efforts on increasing oil and gas reserves and
production and controlling costs. Devon’s future earnings
and cash flows are dependent on its ability to continue to
contain its overall cost structure at a level that will allow
for profitable production.

Devon drilled almost 300 exploration wells and
over 1,900 development wells during 2003. We incurred finding
and development costs, including business combinations, of
$7.9 billion in 2003. Including 556 million Boe of
proved reserves that were acquired, Devon replaced 321% of
annual production, closing 2003 with proved reserves of
2.1 billion Boe. This resulted in per-unit finding and
development costs, including business combinations, which are
higher than both Devon’s historical and the industry
averages. Management is focused on lowering our per-unit finding
and development costs in future years.

The timing differences that often occur between
the years in which capital costs are incurred and the years in
which related proved reserves are booked contributed
significantly to the higher per-unit finding and development
costs in recent years. For example, Devon had several potential
discoveries in 2003 from our exploration program. We believe our
deepwater Gulf of Mexico discoveries at St. Malo and Sturgis,
and the 2002 Cascade and Tuk M-18 discoveries will contribute
significantly to Devon’s proved reserves. However, due to
the long-term nature of these projects, additional testing and
approval of development plans are needed before we can record
the potential reserves as proved. Therefore, we have not yet
recorded any reserves related to these projects, even though the
costs of drilling the wells have already been included in our
finding and development costs.

Another contributor to 2003 finding and
development costs related to the development of previously
booked undeveloped reserves. We invested about $900 million
of capital in 2003 developing reserves previously classified as
proved undeveloped. Many of these reserves were associated with
assets acquired in the Ocean and other recent acquisitions. This
has allowed us to reduce our percentage of reserves classified
as proved undeveloped from 31% following the Ocean merger to 24%
at year-end.

As we begin recording proved reserves within the
next 12 to 18 months from some of our recent discoveries,
and as we reduce the amount of costs incurred to develop proved
undeveloped reserves, we are optimistic that Devon’s
per-unit finding and development costs will decline to more
competitive levels.

During 2003, Devon marked its 15th anniversary as
a public company. While Devon has consistently increased
production over this 15-year period, volatility in oil, gas and
NGL prices has resulted in considerable variability in earnings
and cash flows. Prices for oil, natural gas and NGLs are
determined primarily by market conditions. Market conditions for
these products have been, and will continue to be, influenced by
regional and worldwide economic activity, weather and other
factors that are beyond Devon’s control. Devon’s
future earnings and cash flows will continue to depend on market
conditions.

Like all oil and gas exploration and production
companies, Devon faces the challenge of natural production
decline. As initial reservoir pressures are depleted, oil and
gas production from a given well naturally decreases. Thus, an
oil and gas exploration and production company depletes part of
its asset base with each unit of oil or gas it produces.
Historically, Devon has been able to overcome this natural
decline by adding, through drilling and acquisitions, more
reserves than it produces. Devon’s future growth will
depend on its ability to continue to add reserves in excess of
production.

In summary, as we head into 2004 and beyond,
Devon is poised to continue growing organically through both our
long-term investment in high-impact exploration projects and our
lower-risk development of proved undeveloped reserves. In
addition, we expect to continue to strengthen our balance sheet
through the accumulation of cash to meet future debt maturities.



Results of Operations

Revenues

Changes in oil, gas and NGL production, prices
and revenues from 2001 to 2003 are shown in the following
tables. (Unless otherwise stated, all dollar amounts are
expressed in U.S. dollars.)



(1)

Gas volumes are converted to Boe or MMBoe at the
    rate of six Mcf of gas per barrel of oil, based upon the
    approximate relative energy content of natural gas and oil,
    which rate is not necessarily indicative of the relationship of
    oil and gas prices. NGL volumes are converted to Boe on a
    one-to-one basis with oil. The respective prices of oil, gas and
    NGLs are affected by market and other factors in addition to
    relative energy content.



(2)

All percentage changes included in this table are
    based on actual figures and not the rounded figures included in
    this table.

N/M Not meaningful.

The average prices shown in the preceding tables
include the effect of Devon’s oil and gas price hedging
activities. Following is a comparison of Devon’s average
prices with and without the effect of hedges for each of the
last three years.

Oil Revenues

2003 vs. 2002

Oil
revenues increased $679 million in 2003. An increase in
2003 production of 20 million barrels caused oil revenues
to increase by $436 million. The April 2003 Ocean merger
accounted for 25 million barrels of increased production,
partially offset by production lost from the 2002 property
divestitures of 5 million barrels. Oil revenues increased
$243 million due to a $3.92 increase in the average price
of oil.

2002 vs. 2001

Oil
revenues increased $125 million in 2002. An increase in
2002 production of 6 million barrels caused oil revenues to
increase by $112 million. The 2001 Anderson acquisition and
2002 Mitchell merger accounted for 11 million barrels of
increased production. This was partially offset by the effect of
the 2002 property divestitures, which reduced production by
5 million barrels. A $0.30 per barrel increase in the
average oil price in 2002 accounted for the remaining
$13 million of increased oil revenues.

Gas Revenues

2003 vs. 2002

Gas
revenues increased $1.8 billion in 2003. A $1.71 per
Mcf increase in the average gas price caused revenues to
increase by $1.5 billion. An increase in 2003 production of
102 Bcf caused gas revenues to increase by
$287 million. The April 2003 Ocean merger and January
2002 Mitchell merger accounted for 113 Bcf and 11 Bcf
of increased production, respectively, partially offset by
production lost from the 2002 property divestitures of
36 Bcf. The remaining production increase was primarily
related to new drilling and development in the Barnett Shale
properties.

2002 vs. 2001

Gas
revenues increased $255 million in 2002. An increase in
production of 272 Bcf caused gas revenues to increase by
$1.0 billion. The Anderson acquisition and Mitchell merger
accounted for 323 Bcf of increased production. This was
partially offset by the effect of the 2002 property
divestitures, which reduced production by 30 Bcf, and by
natural declines in production. The effects of the net
production increase were partially offset by a $1.04 per
Mcf decrease in the average gas price in 2002.

NGL Revenues

2003 vs. 2002

NGL
revenues increased $132 million in 2003. A $4.60 per
barrel increase in average NGL prices caused revenues to
increase by $100 million. An increase in 2003 production of
3 million barrels caused revenues to increase
$32 million. The April 2003 Ocean merger and January 2002
Mitchell merger each accounted for 1 million barrels of
increased production, partially offset by production lost from
the 2002 property divestitures of 1 million barrels. The
remaining production increase was primarily related to new
drilling and development in the Barnett Shale properties.

2002 vs. 2001

NGL
revenues increased $144 million in 2002. An 11 million
barrel increase in 2002 production caused revenues to increase
$202 million. The Anderson acquisition and Mitchell merger
accounted for 12 million barrels of increased production.
This was partially offset by production lost from



divestitures. The effects of the net production
increase were partially offset by a $2.94 per barrel
decrease in the average NGL price in 2002.

Marketing and Midstream
    Revenues

2003 vs. 2002

Marketing and midstream revenues increased $461 million in
2003. Of this increase, approximately $439 million was the
result of an increase in gas and NGL prices. An increase in
third-party processed NGL volumes caused the remaining increase
in 2003 revenues. The increase in volumes was primarily related
to new drilling and development in the Barnett Shale properties
and an additional 24 days of production in 2003 due to the
timing of the January 2002 Mitchell merger, partially
offset by volumes lost as a result of processing plant
dispositions.

2002 vs. 2001

Marketing and midstream revenues increased $928 million in
2002. The Mitchell merger included significant marketing and
midstream assets which accounted for substantially all of the
increase in revenues.



Operating Costs and Expenses

The details of the changes in operating costs and
expenses between 2001 and 2003 are shown in the table below.



(1)

Though per Boe amounts for these expense items
    may be helpful for profitability trend analysis, these expenses
    are not directly attributable to production volumes.

(2)

All percentage changes included in this table are
    based on actual figures and not the rounded figures included in
    this table.

N/M

Not meaningful.

Oil, Gas and NGLs Production and Operating
    Expenses

2003 vs. 2002

Lease
operating expenses increased $250 million in 2003. The
April 2003 Ocean merger accounted for $168 million of
the increase. Lease operating expenses on the historical Devon
properties increased $105 million, due to an increase in
well workover expenses and increased power, fuel, casualty
insurance and repairs and maintenance costs. Additionally,
changes in the Canadian-to-U.S. dollar exchange rate
resulted in a $37 million increase in costs. These
increases were partially offset by a decrease of
$60 million due to the 2002 property divestitures.

The increase in lease operating expenses per Boe
is primarily related to increased well workover expenses and
increased power, fuel and repairs and maintenance costs, as well
as the changes in the Canadian-to-U.S. dollar exchange
rate. With the increase in oil, gas and NGL prices, more well
workovers and repairs and maintenance costs are performed to
either maintain or improve production volumes. The higher prices
also resulted in increased power and fuel costs.

Transportation costs represent those costs paid
directly to third-party providers to transport oil, gas and NGL
production sold downstream from the wellhead. Transportation
costs increased $53 million in 2003. The April 2003 Ocean
merger accounted for $31 million of the increase. The
remainder of the increase was due primarily to an increase in
gas production and $7 million of the increase was related
to changes in the Canadian-to-U.S. dollar exchange rate.

Production taxes increased $93 million in
2003. The majority of Devon’s production taxes are assessed
on its onshore domestic properties. In the U.S., most of the
production taxes are based on a fixed percentage of revenues.
Therefore, the 79% increase in domestic oil, gas and NGLs
revenues was the primary cause of the production tax increase.

2002 vs. 2001

Lease
operating expenses increased $154 million in 2002. The
Anderson acquisition and Mitchell merger accounted for
$210 million of the increase. The historical Devon lease
operating expenses decreased $56 million primarily due to
divestitures. The drop in lease operating expenses per Boe from
$3.71 in 2001 to $3.30 in 2002 was primarily related to the
lower cost properties acquired in the Anderson acquisition and
Mitchell merger and the divestiture of some of Devon’s
higher cost properties.

Transportation costs increased $71 million
in 2002 primarily due to an increase in gas production from the
Anderson acquisition and Mitchell merger.

As stated previously, most of the
U.S. production taxes are based on a fixed percentage of
revenues. Therefore, the 6% decrease in domestic oil, gas and
NGLs revenues was the primary cause of the production tax
decrease.

Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization of
    Oil and Gas Properties (“DD&A”)

DD&A of oil and gas properties is calculated
as the percentage of total proved reserve volumes produced
during the year, multiplied by the net capitalized investment
plus future development costs in those reserves (the
“depletable base”). Generally, if reserve volumes are
revised up or down, then the DD&A rate per unit of
production will change inversely. However, if the depletable
base changes, then the DD&A rate moves in the same
direction. The per unit DD&A rate is not affected by
production volumes. Absolute or total DD&A, as opposed to
the rate per unit of production, generally moves in the same
direction as production volumes. Oil and gas property DD&A
is calculated separately on a country-by-country basis.



2003 vs. 2002

Oil
and gas property related DD&A increased $562 million in
2003. An increase in the combined U.S., Canadian and
international DD&A rate from $5.88 per BOE in 2002 to
$7.33 per BOE in 2003 caused oil and gas property related
DD&A to increase by $331 million. The increase in the
DD&A rate is primarily related to the April 2003 Ocean
merger, higher finding and development costs and changes in the
Canadian-to-U.S. dollar exchange rate. A 21% increase in
2003 oil, gas and NGLs production caused DD&A to increase
$231 million.

2002 vs. 2001

Oil
and gas property related DD&A increased $313 million in
2002. A 50% increase in 2002 oil, gas and NGLs production caused
DD&A to increase $394 million. The effects of the
production increase were partially offset by a decrease in the
combined U.S., Canadian and international DD&A rate from
$6.30 per Boe in 2001 to $5.88 per Boe in 2002. The
drop in the DD&A rate was primarily due to reductions of
carrying value of oil and gas properties recorded in the fourth
quarter of 2001 and the second quarter of 2002.

Accretion of Asset Retirement
    Obligation

Effective January 1, 2003, Devon adopted
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 143,

Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations

(“SFAS No. 143”) using a cumulative effect
approach to recognize transition amounts for asset retirement
obligations, asset retirement costs and accumulated
depreciation. SFAS No. 143 requires liability
recognition for retirement obligations associated with tangible
long-lived assets, such as producing well sites, offshore
production platforms, and natural gas processing plants. The
obligations included within the scope of SFAS No. 143
are those for which a company faces a legal obligation. The
initial measurement of the asset retirement obligation is to
record a separate liability at its fair value with an offsetting
asset retirement cost recorded as an increase to the related
property and equipment on the balance sheet. The asset
retirement cost is depreciated using a systematic and rational
method similar to that used for the associated property and
equipment.

Because the asset retirement obligation is
recorded at its discounted present value, Devon now records
accretion expense to reflect the increase in the asset
retirement obligation due to the passage of time. Devon recorded
$36 million of such accretion expense during 2003.

Marketing and Midstream Operating Costs and
    Expenses

2003 vs. 2002

Marketing and midstream operating costs and expenses increased
$366 million in 2003. Of this increase, approximately
$347 million was the result of an increase in prices paid
for gas and NGLs. An increase in third-party processed NGL
volumes caused the remaining increase in 2003 costs and
expenses. The increase in volumes was primarily related to new
drilling and development in the Barnett Shale properties and an
additional 24 days of production in 2003 due to the timing
of the January 2002 Mitchell merger, partially offset by volumes
lost as a result of processing plant dispositions.

2002 vs. 2001

Marketing and midstream operating costs and expenses increased
$761 million in 2002. The Mitchell merger included
significant marketing and midstream assets which accounted for
substantially all of the increase in revenues.

General and Administrative Expenses
    (“G&A”)

Devon’s net G&A consists of three
primary components. The largest of these components is the gross
amount of expenses incurred for personnel costs, office
expenses, professional fees and other G&A items. The gross
amount of these expenses is partially reduced by two offsetting
components. One is the amount of G&A capitalized pursuant to
the full cost method of accounting. The other is the amount of
G&A reimbursed by working interest owners of properties for
which Devon serves as the operator. These reimbursements are
received during both the drilling and operational stages of a
property’s life. The gross amount of G&A incurred, less
the amounts capitalized and reimbursed, is recorded as net
G&A in the consolidated statements of operations. Net
G&A includes expenses related to oil, gas and NGL exploration



and production activities, as well as marketing
and midstream activities. See the following table for a summary
of G&A expenses by component.

2003 vs. 2002

Gross
G&A increased $137 million. This increase was primarily
related to the increased activities resulting from the April
2003 Ocean merger, which added $92 million of costs, and
increased compensation and benefit costs. Included in the
increase of compensation and benefit costs is $15 million
related to the increase in the value of investments of deferred
compensation plans which increases the obligation due to the
plan participants. The increase in deferred compensation costs
was partially offset by an $11 million increase in other
income. Additionally, $14 million of the compensation and
benefit costs related to an increase in pension related costs.

The increase in capitalized G&A of
$43 million was primarily related to the April 2003 Ocean
merger. Reimbursed G&A increased $6 million. The
increase in reimbursed amounts was primarily related to the
April 2003 Ocean merger, partially offset by a decline in
reimbursements related to the 2002 property divestitures.

2002 vs. 2001

Gross
G&A increased $139 million primarily due to the
increased activities resulting from the Anderson acquisition and
Mitchell merger. Also included in 2002 gross G&A was
$13 million related to the abandonment of certain office
space assumed in the Santa Fe Snyder merger. The increase
in capitalized G&A of $20 million was primarily related
to the Anderson acquisition and Mitchell merger. The increase in
reimbursed G&A of $14 million was primarily related to
the Anderson acquisition and Mitchell merger, partially offset
by a decline in reimbursements related to the 2002 property
divestitures.

Reduction of Carrying Value of Oil and Gas
    Properties

Under the full cost method of accounting, the net
book value of oil and gas properties, less related deferred
income taxes and asset retirement obligations, may not exceed a
calculated “ceiling.” The ceiling limitation is the
discounted estimated after-tax future net revenues from proved
oil and gas properties plus the cost of properties not subject
to amortization. The ceiling test is imposed separately by
country. In calculating future net revenues, current prices and
costs are generally held constant indefinitely. The effect of
hedges is included in the calculation of the future net
revenues. The calculation also dictates the use of a 10%
discount factor. Therefore, the ceiling limitation is not
necessarily indicative of the properties’ fair value. The
costs to be recovered are compared to the ceiling on a quarterly
basis. If the costs to be recovered exceed the ceiling, the
excess is written off as an expense, except as discussed in the
following paragraph.

If, subsequent to the end of the quarter but
prior to the applicable financial statements being published,
prices increase to levels such that the ceiling would exceed the
costs to be recovered, a writedown otherwise indicated at the
end of the quarter is not required to be recorded. A writedown
indicated at the end of a quarter is also not required if the
value of additional reserves proved up on properties after the
end of the quarter but prior to the publishing of the financial
statements would result in the ceiling exceeding the costs to be
recovered, as long as the properties were owned at the end of
the quarter.

Under the purchase method of accounting for
business combinations, acquired oil and gas properties are
recorded at estimated fair value as of the date of purchase.
Devon estimates such fair value using its estimates of future
oil, gas and NGL prices. In contrast, the ceiling calculation
dictates that prices in



effect as of the last day of the applicable
quarter are held constant indefinitely. Accordingly, the
resulting value from the ceiling calculation is not necessarily
indicative of the fair value of the reserves.

An expense recorded in one period may not be
reversed in a subsequent period even though higher oil and gas
prices may have increased the ceiling applicable to the
subsequent period.

During 2003, 2002 and 2001, Devon reduced the
carrying value of its oil and gas properties by
$68 million, $651 million and $883 million,
respectively, due to the full cost ceiling limitations. The
after-tax effect of these reductions in 2003, 2002 and 2001 was
$36 million, $371 million and $533 million,
respectively. The following table summarizes these reductions by
geographic area.

The 2003 reduction in carrying value was related
to properties in Egypt, Russia and Indonesia. The Egyptian
reduction was primarily due to poor results of a development
well that was unsuccessful in the primary objective. Partially
as a result of this well, Devon revised Egyptian proved reserves
downward. The Russian reduction was primarily the result of
additional capital costs incurred as well as an increase in
operating costs. The Indonesian reduction was primarily related
to an increase in operating costs and a reduction in proved
reserves. As a result, Devon’s Egyptian, Russian and
Indonesian costs to be recovered exceeded the related ceiling
value by $26 million, $9 million and $1 million,
respectively. These after-tax amounts resulted in pre-tax
reductions of the carrying values of Devon’s Egyptian,
Russian and Indonesian oil and gas properties of
$45 million, $19 million and $4 million,
respectively, in the fourth quarter of 2003.

Additionally, during 2003, Devon elected to
discontinue certain exploratory activities in Ghana, certain
properties in Brazil and other smaller concessions. After
meeting the drilling and capital commitments on these
properties, Devon determined that these properties did not meet
Devon’s internal criteria to justify further investment.
Accordingly, Devon recorded a $43 million charge associated
with the impairment of these properties. The after-tax effect of
this reduction was $38 million.

The 2002 Canadian reduction was primarily the
result of lower prices. The recorded fair values of oil and gas
properties added from the Anderson acquisition in 2001 were
based on expected future oil and gas prices that were higher
than the June 30, 2002, prices used to calculate the
Canadian ceiling.

Based on oil, natural gas and NGL cash market
prices as of June 30, 2002, Devon’s Canadian costs to
be recovered exceeded the related ceiling value by
$371 million. This after-tax amount resulted in a pre-tax
reduction of the carrying value of Devon’s Canadian oil and
gas properties of $651 million in the second quarter of
2002. This reduction was the result of a sharp drop in Canadian
gas prices during the last half of June 2002. The end of June
reference prices used in the Canadian ceiling calculation,
expressed in Canadian dollars based on an exchange ratio of
$0.6585, were a NYMEX price of C$40.79 per barrel of oil
and an AECO price of C$2.17 per MMBtu. The cash market
prices of natural gas increased during the month of July 2002
prior to Devon’s release of its second quarter results, but
the increase was not sufficient to offset the entire reduction
calculated as of June 30.

The 2001 domestic and Canadian reductions were
also primarily the result of lower prices. The oil and gas
properties added from the Anderson acquisition and other smaller
acquisitions in 2001 were recorded at fair values that were
based on expected future oil and gas prices higher than the
December 31, 2001 prices used to calculate the ceiling. The
year-end 2001 prices used to calculate the ceiling were based



on a NYMEX oil price of $19.84 per barrel, a
Henry Hub gas price of $2.65 per MMBtu and an AECO gas
price of C$3.67 per MMBtu.

Additionally, during 2001, Devon elected to
abandon operations in Thailand, Malaysia, Qatar and on certain
properties in Brazil. After meeting the drilling and capital
commitments on these properties, Devon determined that these
properties did not meet Devon’s internal criteria to
justify further investment. Accordingly, Devon recorded a
$96 million charge associated with the impairment of these
properties. The after-tax effect of this reduction was
$78 million.

Other Income (Expenses)

The details of the changes in other income
(expenses) between 2001 and 2003 are shown in the table
below.

A discussion of the significant other income
(expense) items follows.

Interest Expense

2003 vs. 2002

Interest expense decreased $31 million in 2003. An increase
in the average debt balance outstanding from $8.3 billion
in 2002 to $8.9 billion in 2003 caused interest expense to
increase $32 million. The increase in average debt
outstanding was attributable primarily to the debt assumed as a
result of the April 2003 Ocean merger. The average interest rate
on outstanding debt was 6.0% in both periods. Other items
included in interest expense that are not related to the debt
balance outstanding were $63 million lower in 2003. Of this
decrease, $46 million related to the capitalization of
interest, $10 million related to lower net accretion and
$8 million related to the loss on the early extinguishment
of the 8.75% senior notes in 2002. The increase in interest
capitalized was primarily related to additional unproved
properties acquired from the April 2003 Ocean merger and the
nature of the properties acquired. The Ocean properties included
significant deepwater Gulf and international exploratory
properties and major development projects.

2002 vs. 2001

Interest expense increased $313 million in 2002. An
increase in the average debt balance outstanding from
$3.0 billion in 2001 to $8.3 billion in 2002 caused
interest expense to increase



$319 million. The increase in average debt
outstanding was attributable primarily to the long-term debt
issued and assumed as a result of the Mitchell merger and
Anderson acquisition.

The average interest rate on outstanding debt
decreased from 6.6% in 2001 to 6.0% in 2002 due to the favorable
rates on the borrowings under the $3 billion term loan
credit facility. This facility’s rates averaged less than
3% during 2002. The overall rate decrease caused interest
expense to decrease $20 million in 2002. Other items
included in interest expense that are not related to the debt
balance outstanding were $14 million higher in 2002. Of the
$14 million increase in other items during 2002,
$5 million related to the amortization of capitalized loan
costs and $3 million related to an increase in the
accretion of debt discounts. These increases were primarily due
to the additional debt incurred as a result of the Mitchell
merger and Anderson acquisition.

Effects of Changes in Foreign Currency
    Exchange Rates

Devon’s Canadian subsidiary has certain
fixed-rate senior notes which are denominated in
U.S. dollars. Changes in the exchange rate between the
U.S. dollar and the Canadian dollar while the notes are
outstanding increase or decrease the expected amount of Canadian
dollars eventually required to repay the notes. In addition,
Devon’s Canadian subsidiary has cash and other working
capital amounts denominated in U.S. dollars which also
fluctuate in value with changes in the exchange rate. Such
changes in the Canadian dollar equivalent balance of the debt
and working capital are required to be included in determining
net earnings for the period in which the exchange rate changes.
The increase in the Canadian-to-U.S. dollar exchange rate
from $0.6331 at December 31, 2002 to $0.7738 at
December 31, 2003 resulted in a $69 million gain. The
increase in the Canadian-to-U.S. dollar exchange rate from
$0.6279 at December 31, 2001 to $0.6331 at
December 31, 2002 resulted in a $1 million gain. The
drop in the Canadian-to-U.S. dollar exchange rate from
$0.6419 at October 15, 2001 (when the debt was assumed) to
$0.6279 at December 31, 2001 resulted in an
$11 million loss.

Impairment of ChevronTexaco Corporation
    Common Stock in 2002

In the fourth quarter of 2002, Devon recorded a
$205 million other-than-temporary impairment of its
investment in shares of ChevronTexaco common stock. Devon
acquired these shares in its August 1999 acquisition of
PennzEnergy Company. The shares are deposited with an exchange
agent for possible exchange for $760 million of debentures
that are exchangeable into the ChevronTexaco shares. The
debentures, which mature in August 2008, were also assumed by
Devon in the 1999 PennzEnergy acquisition.

At the closing date of the PennzEnergy
acquisition, Devon initially recorded the ChevronTexaco common
shares at their fair value, which was $95.38 per share, or
an aggregate value of $677 million. Since then, as the
ChevronTexaco shares have fluctuated in market value, the value
of the shares on Devon’s balance sheet has been adjusted to
the applicable market value. Through September 30, 2002,
any decreases in the value of the ChevronTexaco common shares
were determined by Devon to be temporary in nature. Therefore,
the changes in value were recorded directly to
stockholders’ equity and were not recorded in Devon’s
results of operations through September 30, 2002.

The determination that a decline in value of the
ChevronTexaco shares is temporary or other than temporary is
subjective and influenced by many factors. Among these factors
are the significance of the decline as a percentage of the
original cost, the length of time the stock price has been below
original cost, the performance of the stock price in relation to
the stock price of its competitors within the industry and the
market in general, and whether the decline is attributable to
specific adverse conditions affecting ChevronTexaco.

Beginning in July 2002, the market value of
ChevronTexaco common stock began a significant decline. The
price per share decreased from $88.50 at June 30, 2002, to
$69.25 per share at September 30, 2002, and to
$66.48 per share at December 31, 2002. The year-end
price of $66.48 represented a 25% decline since June 30,
2002, and a 30% decline from the original valuation in August
1999. As a result of the decline in value during the fourth
quarter of 2002, Devon determined that the decline was other than



temporary, as that term is defined by accounting
rules. Therefore, the $205 million cumulative decrease in
the value of the ChevronTexaco common shares from the initial
acquisition in August 1999 to December 31, 2002, was
recorded as a noncash charge to Devon’s results of
operations in the fourth quarter of 2002. Net of the applicable
tax benefit, the charge reduced net earnings by
$128 million.

During 2003, the share price of ChevronTexaco
common stock has increased to $86.39 at December 31, 2003.
As a result, the market value of Devon’s investment in
ChevronTexaco common stock increased $141 million from
December 31, 2002 to December 31, 2003. The changes in
the value of the shares since December 31, 2002, net of
applicable taxes, have been recorded directly to
stockholders’ equity. However, depending on the future
performance of ChevronTexaco’s common stock, Devon may be
required to record additional noncash charges in future periods
if the value of such stock declines, and Devon determines that
such declines are other than temporary.

Income Taxes

2003 vs. 2002

Devon’s 2003 effective financial tax rate attributable to
continuing operations was an expense of 23% compared to a
benefit of 144% in 2002. The 2003 rate benefited from a
statutory rate reduction enacted by the Canadian government that
will be phased in through 2007. This rate reduction resulted in
a $218 million benefit being recorded in 2003 related to
the lower tax rates being applied to deferred tax liabilities
outstanding as of December 31, 2002. Excluding the effects
of the 2003 Canadian rate reduction, the impairment of
ChevronTexaco stock in 2002 and the reduction of carrying value
of oil and gas properties in 2003 and 2002, the effective
financial tax expense rates were 33% and 23% in 2003 and 2002,
respectively. These rates in both years were lower than the
statutory federal tax rate primarily due to the tax benefits of
certain foreign deductions.

2002 vs. 2001

Devon’s 2002 effective financial tax rate attributable to
continuing operations was a benefit of 144% compared to an
effective financial tax rate expense of 18% in 2001. Excluding
the effects of the impairment of ChevronTexaco stock in 2002 and
the reduction of carrying value of oil and gas properties in
2002 and 2001, the effective financial tax expense rates were
23% and 37% in 2002 and 2001, respectively.

The 2002 rate, excluding the ChevronTexaco common
stock impairment and the oil and gas property writedown, was
lower than the statutory federal tax rate primarily due to the
tax benefits of certain foreign deductions. The 2001 rate,
excluding the oil and gas property writedowns, was higher than
the statutory federal tax rate due to the effect of state taxes,
goodwill amortization that was not deductible for income tax
purposes and the effect of foreign income taxes.

Results of Discontinued
    Operations

On April 18, 2002, Devon sold its Indonesian
operations to PetroChina Company Limited for total cash
consideration of $250 million. On October 25, 2002,
Devon sold its Argentine operations to Petroleo Brasileiro S.A.
for total cash consideration of $90 million. On
January 27, 2003, Devon sold its Egyptian operations to IPR
Transoil Corporation for total cash consideration of
$7 million.

As a result, Devon reclassified its Indonesian,
Argentine and Egyptian activities as discontinued operations.
This reclassification affects not only the 2002 presentation of
financial results, but also the presentation of all prior
periods’ results. Subsequent to the sale of its Egyptian
and Indonesian operations, Devon acquired new Egyptian and
Indonesian assets in the April 2003 Ocean merger. Amounts and
activities related to these new Egyptian and Indonesian
operations are included in Devon’s continuing operations in
2003.



Following are the components of the net results
of discontinued operations for the years 2002 and 2001.

Cumulative Effect of Change in Accounting
    Principle

Effective January 1, 2003, Devon adopted
SFAS No. 143 and recorded a cumulative-effect-type
adjustment for an increase to net earnings of $16 million
net of deferred taxes of $10 million.

Effective January 1, 2001, Devon adopted
SFAS No. 133,

Accounting for Derivative Instruments
and Hedging Activities,

(“SFAS No. 133”)
and recorded a cumulative-effect-type adjustment to net earnings
for a $49 million gain related to the fair value of
derivatives that do not qualify as hedges. This gain included
$46 million related to the option embedded in the
debentures that are exchangeable into shares of ChevronTexaco
common stock.

Capital Expenditures, Capital Resources and
Liquidity

The following discussion of capital expenditures,
capital resources and liquidity should be read in conjunction
with the consolidated financial statements included in
“Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data”.

Capital Expenditures

Cash payments for capital expenditures were
$2.6 billion in 2003. This total includes $2.5 billion
for the acquisition, drilling or development of oil and gas
properties. These amounts compare to cash payments for capital
expenditures of $3.4 billion in 2002 and $5.2 billion
in 2001. The 2002 amounts included $1.7 billion related to
the January 2002 Mitchell merger and $1.6 billion for other
acquisitions and the drilling or development of oil and gas
properties. The 2001 amounts included $3.5 billion related
to the October 2001 Anderson acquisition and $1.6 billion
for other acquisitions and the drilling or development of oil
and gas properties.

The April 2003 Ocean merger did not affect cash
paid for 2003 capital expenditures because the consideration
given was Devon common stock. This differs from the January 2002
Mitchell merger, in which the consideration given was both Devon
common stock and cash, and the October 2001 Anderson
acquisition, in which the consideration given was cash. As a
result, the Mitchell merger and Anderson acquisition did have an
impact on capital expenditures paid in cash.

Capital Resources and
    Liquidity

Devon’s primary source of liquidity has
historically been net cash provided by operating activities
(“operating cash flow”). This source has been
supplemented as needed by accessing credit lines and commercial
paper markets and issuing equity securities and long-term debt
securities. In 2002, another major source of liquidity was
$1.4 billion generated from sales of oil and gas properties.

Operating Cash Flow

Operating cash flow continued to be a primary
source of capital and liquidity in 2003. Operating cash flow in
2003 was $3.8 billion, compared to $1.8 billion in
2002 and $1.9 billion in 2001. The increase in



operating cash flow in 2003 was primarily caused
by the increase in revenues, partially offset by increased
expenses, as discussed earlier in this section.

Devon’s operating cash flow is sensitive to
many variables, the most volatile of which is pricing of the
oil, natural gas and NGLs produced. Prices for these commodities
are determined primarily by prevailing market conditions.
Regional and worldwide economic activity, weather and other
substantially variable factors influence market conditions for
these products. These factors are beyond Devon’s control
and are difficult to predict.

To mitigate some of the risk inherent in oil and
natural gas prices, Devon has utilized price collars to set
minimum and maximum prices on a portion of its production.
Additionally, Devon has entered into various financial price
swap contracts and fixed-price physical delivery contracts to
fix the price to be received for a portion of future oil and
natural gas production. The table below provides the volumes
associated with these various arrangements as of
December 31, 2003.

In addition to the above quantities, Devon also
has fixed-price physical delivery contracts, for the years 2006
through 2011, covering Canadian natural gas production ranging
from 8 Bcf to 14 Bcf per year. From 2012 through 2016,
Devon also has Canadian gas volumes subject to fixed-price
contracts, but the yearly volumes are less than 1 Bcf.

By removing the price volatility from a portion
of its oil and natural gas production, Devon has mitigated, but
not eliminated, the potential effects of changing prices on its
operating cash flow. The combination of price collars, price
swaps and fixed-price contracts currently in place represents
approximately 65% of estimated 2004 oil production and 48% of
estimated 2004 natural gas production.

It is Devon’s policy to only enter into
derivative contracts with investment grade rated counterparties
deemed by management as competent and competitive market makers.

In February 2004, Devon announced that its
capital expenditure budget for the year 2004 was approximately
$2.8 billion. This capital budget, which includes capital
for exploration and production, marketing and midstream and
other corporate items, represents the largest planned use of
available operating cash flow. To a certain degree, the ultimate
timing of these capital expenditures is within Devon’s
control. Therefore, if oil and natural gas prices decline to
levels below its acceptable levels, Devon could choose to defer
a portion of these planned 2004 capital expenditures until later
periods to achieve the desired balance between sources and uses
of liquidity. Based upon current oil and gas price expectations
for 2004, Devon anticipates that its operating cash flow will
exceed its planned capital expenditures and other cash
requirements for the year. Devon currently intends to accumulate
any excess cash to fund future years’ debt maturities.
Additional alternatives could be considered based upon the
actual amount, if any, of such excess cash.

Credit Lines

Other sources of liquidity are Devon’s
revolving lines of credit. Devon has $1 billion of
unsecured long-term credit facilities (the “Credit
Facilities”). The Credit Facilities include a
U.S. facility of $725 million (the
“U.S. Facility”) and a Canadian facility of
$275 million (the “Canadian Facility”). The
$725 million U.S. Facility consists of a
Tranche A facility of $200 million and a
Tranche B facility of $525 million.



The Tranche A facility matures on
October 15, 2004. Devon may borrow funds under the
Tranche B facility until June 2, 2004 (the
“Tranche B Revolving Period”). Devon may request
that the Tranche B Revolving Period be extended an
additional 364 days by notifying the agent bank of such
request between 30 and 60 days prior to the end of the
Tranche B Revolving Period. On June 2, 2004, at the
end of the Tranche B Revolving Period, Devon may convert
the then outstanding balance under the Tranche B facility
to a one-year term loan by paying the Agent a fee of
25 basis points. The applicable borrowing rate would be at
LIBOR plus 112.5 basis points. On December 31, 2003,
there were no borrowings outstanding under the $725 million
U.S. Facility. The available capacity under the
U.S. Facility as of December 31, 2003, net of
outstanding letters of credit, was approximately
$586 million.

Devon may borrow funds under the
$275 million Canadian Facility until June 2, 2004 (the
“Canadian Facility Revolving Period”). Devon may
request that the Canadian Facility Revolving Period be extended
an additional 364 days by notifying the agent bank of such
request between 30 and 60 days prior to the end of the
Canadian Facility Revolving Period. Debt outstanding as of the
end of the Canadian Facility Revolving Period is payable in
semiannual installments of 2.5% each for the following five
years, with the final installment due five years and one day
following the end of the Canadian Facility Revolving Period. On
December 31, 2003, there were no borrowings under the
$275 million Canadian facility. The available capacity
under the Canadian Facility as of December 31, 2003, net of
outstanding letters of credit, was approximately
$214 million.

Under the terms of the Credit Facilities, Devon
has the right to reallocate up to $100 million of the
unused Tranche B facility maximum credit amount to the
Canadian Facility. Conversely, Devon also has the right to
reallocate up to $100 million of unused Canadian Facility
maximum credit amount to the Tranche B Facility.

Amounts borrowed under the Credit Facilities bear
interest at various fixed rate options that Devon may elect for
periods up to six months. Such rates are generally less than the
prime rate. Devon may also elect to borrow at the prime rate.
The Credit Facilities provide for an annual facility fee of
$1.4 million that is payable quarterly in arrears. Devon
intends to renew the Credit Facilities in 2004.

Devon also has access to short-term credit under
its commercial paper program. Total borrowings under the
U.S. Facility and the commercial paper program may not
exceed $725 million. Commercial paper debt generally has a
maturity of between seven to 90 days, although it can have
a maturity of up to 365 days. Devon had no commercial paper
debt outstanding at December 31, 2003.

Devon’s Credit Facilities contain only one
material financial covenant. This covenant requires Devon to
maintain a ratio of total funded debt to total capitalization of
no more than 65%. The credit agreements contain definitions of
total funded debt and total capitalization that include
adjustments to the respective amounts reported in Devon’s
consolidated financial statements. In accordance with the
agreements, total funded debt excludes the debentures that are
exchangeable into shares of ChevronTexaco common stock. Also,
total capitalization is adjusted to add back noncash financial
writedowns such as full cost ceiling property impairments or
goodwill impairments. As of December 31, 2003, Devon was in
compliance with this covenant.

Devon’s access to funds from its Credit
Facilities is not restricted under any “material adverse
condition” clauses. It is not uncommon for credit
agreements to include such clauses. These clauses can remove the
obligation of the banks to fund the credit line if any condition
or event would reasonably be expected to have a material and
adverse effect on the borrower’s financial condition,
operations, properties or prospects considered as a whole, the
borrower’s ability to make timely debt payments, or the
enforceability of material terms of the credit agreement. While
Devon’s Credit Facilities and its $3 billion term loan
credit facility include covenants that require Devon to report a
condition or event having a material adverse effect on Devon,
the obligation of the banks to fund the Credit Facilities is not
conditioned on the absence of a material adverse effect.



Ocean Debt

In connection with the Ocean merger, Devon
assumed $1.8 billion of debt. A summary of this debt is as
follows:

Change of control provisions required the
outstanding borrowings under the credit line and note payable to
be fully paid immediately. Additionally, Devon was required to
extend purchase offers for certain senior notes and the senior
subordinated notes. As a result of these purchase offers, which
expired on June 13, 2003, Devon paid $118 million for
the aggregate principal amount tendered. The purchase price for
each offer was 101 percent of the principal amount of the
notes tendered plus accrued and unpaid interest to and including
the purchase date. All notes that were not tendered remain
outstanding except as described below.

Included in the $118 million of debt retired
pursuant to the purchase offer were $13 million of the
8.375% notes and $57 million of the 7.875% notes.
The remaining $195 million of 8.375% notes were called
and redeemed on July 1, 2003. Additionally, the remaining
$43 million of 7.875% senior notes were paid
August 1, 2003, when they were due.

Debt Ratings

Devon receives debt ratings from the major
ratings agencies in the United States. In determining
Devon’s debt rating, the agencies consider a number of
items including, but not limited to, debt levels, planned asset
sales, near-term and long-term production growth opportunities,
capital allocation challenges, liquidity, asset quality, cost
structure, reserve mix, and commodity pricing levels.

Devon’s current debt ratings are BBB with a
stable outlook by Standard & Poor’s, Baa2 with a
negative outlook by Moody’s and BBB with a stable outlook
by Fitch. There are no “rating triggers” in any of
Devon’s contractual obligations that would accelerate
scheduled maturities should Devon’s debt rating fall below
a specified level. Certain of Devon’s agreements related to
its oil and natural gas hedges do contain provisions that could
require Devon to provide cash collateral in situations where
Devon’s liability under the hedge is above a certain dollar
threshold and where Devon’s debt rating is below investment
grade (BBB- or Baa3). However, Devon’s liability under
these agreements would only exceed the threshold level in
circumstances where the market prices for oil or natural gas
were rising. It is



unlikely that Devon’s debt rating would be
subjected to downgrades to non-investment grade levels during
such a period of rising oil and natural gas prices.

Devon’s cost of borrowing under its Credit
Facilities and on the $635 million borrowed under its
$3 billion term loan facility is predicated on its
corporate debt rating. Therefore, even though a ratings
downgrade would not accelerate scheduled maturities, it would
adversely impact Devon’s interest rate on its variable rate
debt. Under the terms of the Credit Facilities and the term loan
credit facility, a one-notch downgrade would increase
Devon’s fully drawn borrowing rates by 25 basis points
for each facility. The average borrowing costs for the Credit
Facilities would increase from LIBOR plus 95 basis points
to LIBOR plus 120 basis points and the borrowing costs for
the term loan facility would increase from LIBOR plus
100 basis points to LIBOR plus 125 basis points. A
ratings downgrade could also adversely impact Devon’s
ability to economically access future debt markets.

As of December 31, 2003, Devon was not aware
of any potential ratings downgrades being contemplated by the
rating agencies.

Contractual Obligations

A summary of Devon’s contractual obligations
as of December 31, 2003, is provided in the following table.

Firm transportation agreements represent
“ship or pay” arrangements whereby Devon has committed
to ship certain volumes of gas for a fixed transportation fee.
Devon has entered into these agreements to aid Devon in moving
its gas production to market. Devon has sufficient production to
utilize the majority of these transmission services.

Devon assumed two offshore platform spar leases
through the 2003 Ocean merger. The spars are being used in the
development of the Nansen and Boomvang fields in the Gulf of
Mexico. The operating leases are for 20-year terms and contain
various options whereby Devon may purchase the lessors’
interests in the spars. Devon has guaranteed that the spars will
have residual values at the end of the operating leases equal to
at least 10% of the fair value of the spars at the inception of
the leases. The total guaranteed value is $20 million in
2022. However, such amount may be reduced under the terms of the
lease agreements.

Devon also has two floating, production, storage
and offloading facilities (FPSO) that are being leased
under operating lease arrangements. One FPSO is being used in
the Panyu project offshore China, and the other is being used in
the Zafiro field offshore Equatorial Guinea. The China lease
expires in September 2009 and the Equatorial Guinea lease
expires in July 2011.

The above table does not include
$200 million of letters of credit that have been issued by
commercial banks on Devon’s behalf which, if funded, would
become borrowings under Devon’s revolving



credit facility. Most of these letters of credit
have been granted by Devon’s financial institutions to
support Devon’s international and Canadian drilling
commitments. The $8.9 billion of long-term debt shown in
the table excludes $1 million of net discounts and a
$27 million fair value adjustment, both of which are
included in the December 31, 2003, book balance of the debt.

Pension Funding and Obligations

Devon’s pension expense is recognized on an
accrual basis over employees’ approximate service periods
and is generally calculated independent of funding decisions or
requirements. Devon recognized expense for its defined benefit
pension plans of $35 million, $16 million and
$7 million in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Devon
estimates that its pension expense will approximate
$24 million in 2004.

As compared to the “projected benefit
obligation,” Devon’s qualified and nonqualified
defined benefit plans were underfunded by $137 million and
$179 million at December 31, 2003 and 2002,
respectively. The decrease in the underfunded amount during 2003
was primarily caused by gains on investments and cash
contributions of $67 million made to the plans by Devon,
partially offset by increases in the benefit obligations. A
detailed reconciliation of the 2003 activity is included in
Note 13 to the accompanying consolidated financial
statements. Of the $137 million underfunded status at the
end of 2003, $91 million is attributable to various
nonqualified defined benefit plans which have no plan assets.
However, Devon has established certain trusts to fund the
benefit obligations of such nonqualified plans. As of
December 31, 2003, these trusts had investments with a
market value of $66 million. The value of these trusts is
included in noncurrent other assets in Devon’s accompanying
consolidated balance sheets.

As compared to the “accumulated benefit
obligation,” Devon’s qualified defined benefit plans
were underfunded by $22 million at December 31, 2003.
The accumulated benefit obligation differs from the projected
benefit obligation in that the former includes no assumption
about future compensation levels. Devon’s current
intentions are to fund this accumulated benefit obligation
deficit during 2004 and provide sufficient funding in subsequent
years to ensure the accumulated benefit obligation remains
funded. The actual amount of contributions required during this
period will depend on investment returns from the plan assets
and any changes in actuarial assumptions made during the same
period.

The calculation of pension expense and pension
liability requires the use of a number of assumptions. Changes
in these assumptions can result in different expense and
liability amounts, and future actual experience can differ from
the assumptions. Devon believes that the two most critical
assumptions affecting pension expense and liabilities are the
expected long-term rate of return on plan assets and the assumed
discount rate.

Devon assumed that its plan assets would generate
a long-term weighted average rate of return of 8.25% and 8.27%
at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Devon
developed these expected long-term rate of return assumptions by
evaluating input from external consultants and economists as
well as long-term inflation assumptions. The expected long-term
rate of return on plan assets is based on a target allocation of
investment types in such assets. The target investment
allocation for Devon’s plan assets is 50% U.S. large
cap equity securities; 15% U.S. small cap equity
securities, equally allocated between growth and value; 15%
international equity securities, equally allocated between
growth and value; and 20% debt securities.

Devon believes that its long-term asset
allocation on average will approximate the targeted allocation.
Devon regularly reviews its actual asset allocation and
periodically rebalances the investments to the targeted
allocation when considered appropriate.

Pension expense increases as the expected rate of
return on plan assets decreases. A decrease in Devon’s
long-term rate of return assumption of 100 basis points
(from 8.25% to 7.25%) would increase the expected 2004 pension
expense by approximately $4 million.

Devon discounted its future pension obligations
using a weighted average rate of 6.23% at December 31,
2003, compared to 6.72% at December 31, 2002. The discount
rate is determined at the end of each year based on the rate at
which obligations could be effectively settled. This rate is
based on high-



quality bond yields, after allowing for call and
default risk. Devon considers high quality corporate bond yield
indices, such as Moody’s Aa, when selecting the discount
rate.

The pension liability and future pension expense
both increase as the discount rate is reduced. Lowering the
discount rate by 25 basis points (from 6.23% to 5.98%)
would increase Devon’s pension liability at
December 31, 2003, by approximately $16 million, and
increase its estimated 2004 pension expense by approximately
$2 million.

At December 31, 2003, Devon had unrecognized
actuarial losses of $119 million. These losses will be
recognized as a component of pension expense in future years.
Devon estimates that approximately $7 million and
$6 million of the unrecognized actuarial losses will be
included in pension expense in 2004 and 2005, respectively. The
$7 million estimated to be recognized in 2004 is a
component of the total estimated 2004 pension expense of
$24 million referred to earlier in this discussion.

Future changes in plan asset returns, assumed
discount rates and various other factors related to the
participants in Devon’s defined benefit pension plans will
impact future pension expense and liabilities. Devon cannot
predict with certainty what these factors will be in the future.

Other Cash Uses

Devon’s common stock dividends were
$39 million, $31 million and $25 million in 2003,
2002 and 2001, respectively. Devon also paid $10 million of
preferred stock dividends in 2003, 2002 and 2001.

During 2001, Devon repurchased
3,754,000 shares of common stock at an aggregate cost of
$190 million or $50.71 per share. Devon also
repurchased shares of its common stock in 2001 under an odd-lot
repurchase program. Pursuant to this program, Devon purchased
and retired 232,000 shares of its common stock for a total
cost of $14 million, or $57.40 per share.

Critical Accounting Policies

Full Cost Ceiling
    Calculations

Devon follows the full cost method of accounting
for its oil and gas properties. The full cost method subjects
companies to quarterly calculations of a “ceiling”, or
limitation on the amount of properties that can be capitalized
on the balance sheet. If Devon’s capitalized costs are in
excess of the calculated ceiling, the excess must be written off
as an expense. The ceiling limitation is imposed separately for
each country in which Devon has oil and gas properties.

Devon’s discounted present value of its
proved oil, natural gas and NGL reserves is a major component of
the ceiling calculation, and represents the component that
requires the most subjective judgments. Estimates of reserves
are forecasts based on engineering data, projected future rates
of production and the timing of future expenditures. The process
of estimating oil, natural gas and NGL reserves requires
substantial judgment, resulting in imprecise determinations,
particularly for new discoveries. Different reserve engineers
may make different estimates of reserve quantities based on the
same data. Certain of Devon’s reserve estimates are
prepared by outside consultants, while other reserve estimates
are prepared by Devon’s engineers. See Note 18 of the
accompanying consolidated financial statements.

The passage of time provides more qualitative
information regarding estimates of reserves, and revisions are
made to prior estimates to reflect updated information. In the
past four years, Devon’s annual revisions to its reserve
estimates have averaged approximately 2% of the previous
year’s estimate. However, there can be no assurance that
more significant revisions will not be necessary in the future.
If future significant revisions are necessary that reduce
previously estimated reserve quantities, it could result in a
full cost property writedown. In addition to the impact of the
estimates of proved reserves on the calculation of the ceiling,
estimates of proved reserves are also a significant component of
the calculation of DD&A.



While the quantities of proved reserves require
substantial judgment, the associated prices of oil, natural gas
and NGL reserves, and the applicable discount rate, that are
used to calculate the discounted present value of the reserves
do not require judgment. The ceiling calculation dictates that
prices and costs in effect as of the last day of the period are
generally held constant indefinitely. Therefore, the future net
revenues associated with the estimated proved reserves are not
based on Devon’s assessment of future prices or costs, but
rather are based on such prices and costs in effect as of the
end of each quarter when the ceiling calculation is performed.
In calculating the ceiling, Devon adjusts the end-of-period
price by the effect of cash flow hedges in place.

The ceiling calculation also dictates that a 10%
discount factor is to be used to calculate the present value of
net cash flows.

Because the ceiling calculation dictates that
prices in effect as of the last day of the applicable quarter
are held constant indefinitely, and requires a 10% discount
factor, the resulting value is not indicative of the true fair
value of the reserves. Oil and natural gas prices have
historically been cyclical and, on any particular day at the end
of a quarter, can be either substantially higher or lower than
Devon’s long-term price forecast that is a barometer for
true fair value. Therefore, oil and gas property writedowns that
result from applying the full cost ceiling limitation, and that
are caused by fluctuations in price as opposed to reductions to
the underlying quantities of reserves, should not be viewed as
absolute indicators of a reduction of the ultimate value of the
related reserves.

Derivative Instruments

Devon enters into oil and gas financial
instruments to manage its exposure to oil and gas price
volatility. Devon has also entered into interest rate swaps to
manage its exposures to interest rate volatility. The interest
rate swaps mitigate either the effects on interest expense for
variable-rate debt instruments, or the debt fair values for
fixed-rate debt. Devon is not involved in any speculative
trading activities of derivatives. All derivatives are accounted
for in accordance with SFAS No. 133 and are recognized
on the balance sheet at their fair value.

A substantial portion of Devon’s derivatives
consists of contracts that hedge the price of future oil and
natural gas production. These derivative contracts are cash flow
hedges that qualify for hedge accounting treatment under
SFAS No. 133. Therefore, while fair values of such
hedging instruments must be estimated as of the end of each
reporting period, the changes in the fair values are not
included in Devon’s consolidated results of operations.
Instead, the changes in fair value of these hedging instruments,
net of tax, are recorded directly to stockholders’ equity
until the hedged oil or natural gas quantities are produced. To
qualify for hedge accounting treatment, Devon designates its
cash flow hedge instruments as such on the date the derivative
contract is entered into or the date of a business combination
which includes cash flow hedge instruments. Additionally, Devon
documents all relationships between hedging instruments and
hedged items, as well as its risk-management objective and
strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. Devon also
assesses, both at the hedge’s inception and on an ongoing
basis, whether the derivatives that are used in hedging
transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in cash
flows of hedged items. If Devon fails to meet the requirements
for using hedge accounting treatment, the changes in fair value
of these hedging instruments would not be recorded directly to
equity but in the consolidated results of operations.

The estimates of the fair values of Devon’s
commodity derivative contracts require substantial judgment. For
these contracts, Devon obtains forward price and volatility data
for all major oil and gas trading points in North America from
independent third parties. These forward prices are compared to
the price parameters contained in the hedge agreements, and the
resulting estimated future cash inflows or outflows over the
lives of the hedge contracts are discounted using Devon’s
current borrowing rates under its revolving credit facilities.
In addition, Devon estimates the option value of price floors
and price caps using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
These pricing and discounting variables are sensitive to market
volatility as well as changes in forward prices, regional price
differentials and interest rates. Fair



values of Devon’s other derivative contracts
require less judgment to estimate and are primarily based on
quotes from independent third parties such as counterparties or
brokers.

Business Combinations

Devon has grown substantially during recent years
through acquisitions of other oil and natural gas companies.
Most of these acquisitions have been accounted for using the
purchase method of accounting, and recent accounting
pronouncements require that all future acquisitions will be
accounted for using the purchase method.

Under the purchase method, the acquiring company
adds to its balance sheet the estimated fair values of the
acquired company’s assets and liabilities. Any excess of
the purchase price over the fair values of the tangible and
intangible net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Goodwill
is assessed for impairment at least annually.

There are various assumptions made by Devon in
determining the fair values of an acquired company’s assets
and liabilities. The most significant assumptions, and the ones
requiring the most judgment, involve the estimated fair values
of the oil and gas properties acquired. To determine the fair
values of these properties, Devon prepares estimates of oil,
natural gas and NGL reserves. These estimates are based on work
performed by Devon’s engineers and that of outside
consultants. The judgments associated with these estimated
reserves are described earlier in this section in connection
with the full cost ceiling calculation.

However, there are factors involved in estimating
the fair values of acquired oil, natural gas and NGL properties
that require more judgment than that involved in the full cost
ceiling calculation. As stated above, the full cost ceiling
calculation applies current price and cost information to the
reserves to arrive at the ceiling amount. By contrast, the fair
value of reserves acquired in a business combination must be
based on Devon’s estimates of future oil, natural gas and
NGL prices. Devon’s estimates of future prices are based on
its own analysis of pricing trends. These estimates are based on
current data obtained with regard to regional and worldwide
supply and demand dynamics such as economic growth forecasts.
They are also based on industry data regarding natural gas
storage availability, drilling rig activity, changes in delivery
capacity, trends in regional pricing differentials and other
fundamental analysis. Forecasts of future prices from
independent third parties are noted when Devon makes its pricing
estimates.

Devon estimates future prices to apply to the
estimated reserve quantities acquired, and estimates future
operating and development costs, to arrive at estimates of
future net revenues. For estimated proved reserves, the future
net revenues are then discounted using a rate determined
appropriate at the time of the business combination based upon
Devon’s cost of capital.

Devon also applies these same general principles
in arriving at the fair value of unproved properties acquired in
a business combination. These unproved properties generally
represent the value of probable and possible reserves. Because
of their very nature, probable and possible reserve estimates
are more imprecise than those of proved reserves. To compensate
for the inherent risk of estimating and valuing unproved
reserves, the discounted future net revenues of probable and
possible reserves are reduced by what Devon considers to be an
appropriate risk-weighting factor in each particular instance.
It is common for the discounted future net revenues of probable
and possible reserves to be reduced by factors ranging from 30%
to 80% to arrive at what Devon considers to be the appropriate
fair values.

Generally, in Devon’s business combinations,
the determination of the fair values of oil and gas properties
requires much more judgment than the fair values of other assets
and liabilities. The acquired companies commonly have long-term
debt that Devon assumes in the acquisition, and this debt must
be recorded at the estimated fair value as if Devon had issued
such debt. However, significant judgment on Devon’s behalf
is usually not required in these situations due to the existence
of comparable market values of debt issued by Devon’s peer
companies.

Except for the 2002 Mitchell merger, Devon’s
mergers and acquisitions have involved other entities whose
operations were predominantly in the area of exploration,
development and production activities



related to oil and gas properties. However, in
addition to exploration, development and production activities,
Mitchell’s business also included substantial marketing and
midstream activities. Therefore, a portion of the Mitchell
purchase price was allocated to the fair value of
Mitchell’s marketing and midstream facilities and
equipment, which consisted primarily of natural gas processing
plants and natural gas pipeline systems.

Because the Mitchell midstream assets primarily
served gas producing properties that were also acquired by Devon
from Mitchell, certain of the assumptions regarding future
operations of the gas producing properties were also integral to
the value of the midstream assets. For example, future
quantities of natural gas estimated to be processed by natural
gas processing plants were based on the same estimates used to
value the proved and unproved gas producing properties. Future
expected prices for marketing and midstream product sales were
also based on price cases consistent with those used to value
the oil and gas producing assets acquired from Mitchell. Based
on historical costs and known trends and commitments, Devon also
estimated future operating and capital costs of the marketing
and midstream assets to arrive at estimated future cash flows.
These cash flows were discounted at rates consistent with those
used to discount future net cash flows from oil and gas
producing assets to arrive at Devon’s estimated fair value
of the marketing and midstream facilities and equipment.

In addition to the valuation methods described
above, Devon performs other quantitative analyses to support the
indicated value in any business combination. These analyses
include information related to comparable companies, comparable
transactions and premiums paid.

In a comparable company analysis, Devon reviews
the public stock market trading multiples for selected publicly
traded independent exploration and production companies with
financial and operating characteristics, such as market
capitalization, location of proved reserves and the
characterization of those reserves that Devon deems to be
similar to those of the party to the proposed business
combination. These comparable company multiples are compared to
the proposed business combination company multiples for
reasonableness.

In a comparable transactions analysis, Devon
reviews certain acquisition multiples for selected independent
exploration and production company transactions and oil and gas
asset packages announced recently. The comparable transaction
multiples are compared to the proposed business combination
transaction multiples for reasonableness.

In a premiums paid analysis, Devon uses a sample
of selected independent exploration and production company
transactions in addition to selected transactions of all
publicly traded companies announced recently, to review the
premiums paid to the price of the target one day,
one week and one month prior to the announcement of
the transaction. Devon uses this information to determine the
mean and median premiums paid and compares them to the proposed
business combination premium for reasonableness.

Valuation of Goodwill

Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite
useful lives are tested for impairment at least annually. This
requires Devon to estimate the fair values of its own assets and
liabilities in a manner similar to the process described above
for a business combination. Therefore, considerable judgment
similar to that described above in connection with estimating
the fair value of an acquired company in a business combination
is also required to assess goodwill for impairment on an annual
basis.

Drilling and Mineral Rights

In 2003, the Securities Exchange Commission
(“SEC”) inquired of the Financial Accounting Standards
Board regarding the application of certain provisions of
SFAS No. 141,

Business Combinations,

(“SFAS No. 141”) and SFAS No. 142,

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,

(“SFAS No. 142”) to oil and gas companies.
SFAS Nos. 141 and 142 became effective for
transactions subsequent to June 30, 2001.
SFAS No. 141 requires that all business combinations
initiated after June 30, 2001 be accounted for using the
purchase method and that acquired intangible assets be
disaggregated and reported separately



from goodwill. Specifically, the SEC’s
inquiry is based on whether costs of contract-based drilling and
mineral use rights (“mineral rights”) should be
recorded and disclosed as intangible assets under the guidance
in SFAS Nos. 141 and 142. The current practice
for Devon and the industry is to present oil and gas related
assets, including mineral rights, as property and equipment
(tangible assets) on the balance sheet. Since June 30,
2001, Devon has entered into business combinations with
Anderson, Mitchell, and Ocean with an aggregate accounting
purchase price of $18.2 billion. The majority of the
purchase price has been allocated to oil and gas property.

An Emerging Issues Task Force Working Group
(“EITF”) has been created to research the accounting
and disclosure treatment of mineral rights for oil and gas
companies. As a result, the EITF has added Issue No. 03-O,
“Whether Mineral Rights are Tangible or Intangible
Assets,” and Issue No. 03-S, “Application of FASB
Statement No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, to
Oil and Gas Companies”. Currently, Devon does not believe
that generally accepted accounting principles require the
classification of mineral rights as intangible assets and
continues to classify these assets as oil and gas properties.
However, the decisions of the EITF may affect how Devon
classifies these assets in the future. If the EITF ultimately
determines that SFAS Nos. 141 and 142 require oil and
gas companies to classify mineral rights as separate intangible
assets, the amounts included in oil and gas properties on the
balance sheet that would be reclassified are not expected to
exceed the following amounts:

Amounts to be reclassified would be impacted by
the provisions of the EITF consensus. The ultimate
reclassification amount could be materially different than the
amounts above as numerous decisions that could be included in
the consensus would impact the composition and amortization of
the intangible assets, if any.

Devon believes that cash flows and results of
operations would not be affected since such intangible assets
would likely continue to be depleted and assessed for impairment
in accordance with Devon’s accounting policies as
prescribed under the full cost method of accounting for oil and
gas properties. Further, Devon does not believe the
classification of the mineral rights as intangible assets would
affect compliance with covenants under its debt agreements.

Impact of Recently Issued Accounting
    Standards Not Yet Adopted

In December 2003, the FASB issued FASB
Interpretation No. 46 (revised December 2003),

Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities,

(“FIN 46R”) which addresses how a business
enterprise should evaluate whether it has a controlling
financial interest in an entity through means other than voting
rights and accordingly should consolidate the entity.
FIN 46R replaces FASB Interpretation No. 46,

Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities,

which was
issued in January 2003. Devon will be required to apply
FIN 46R to variable interests in variable interest entities
(“VIEs”) created after December 31, 2003. For
variable interests in VIEs created before January 1, 2004,
FIN 46R will be applied beginning on January 1, 2005.
For any VIEs that must be consolidated under FIN 46R that
were created before January 1, 2004, the assets,
liabilities and noncontrolling interests of the VIE initially
would be measured at their carrying amounts with any difference
between the net amount added to the consolidated balance sheet
and any previously recognized interest being recognized as the
cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle. If
determining the carrying amounts is not practicable, fair value
at the date FIN 46R first applies may be used to measure
the assets, liabilities and noncontrolling interest of the VIE.
Devon owns no interests in variable interest entities;
therefore, FIN 46R will not affect Devon’s
consolidated financial statements.



SFAS Statement No. 150,

Accounting for
Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of both
Liabilities and Equity,

(“SFAS No. 150”)
was issued in May 2003. SFAS No. 150 establishes
standards for the classification and measurement of certain
financial instruments with characteristics of both liabilities
and equity. SFAS No. 150 also includes required
disclosures for financial instruments within its scope.
SFAS No. 150 was effective for instruments entered
into or modified after May 31, 2003 and otherwise will be
effective as of January 1, 2004, except for mandatorily
redeemable financial instruments. For certain mandatorily
redeemable financial instruments, SFAS No. 150 will be
effective on January 1, 2005. The effective date has been
deferred indefinitely for certain other types of mandatorily
redeemable financial instruments. Devon currently does not have
any financial instruments that are within the scope of
SFAS No. 150.

2004 Estimates

The forward-looking statements provided in this
discussion are based on management’s examination of
historical operating trends, the information which was used to
prepare the December 31, 2003 reserve reports and other
data in Devon’s possession or available from third parties.
Devon cautions that its future oil, natural gas and NGL
production, revenues and expenses are subject to all of the
risks and uncertainties normally incident to the exploration for
and development, production and sale of oil, gas and NGLs. These
risks include, but are not limited to, price volatility,
inflation or lack of availability of goods and services,
environmental risks, drilling risks, regulatory changes, the
uncertainty inherent in estimating future oil and gas production
or reserves, and other risks as outlined below.

Additionally, Devon cautions that its future
marketing and midstream revenues and expenses are subject to all
of the risks and uncertainties normally incident to the
marketing and midstream business. These risks include, but are
not limited to, price volatility, environmental risks,
regulatory changes, the uncertainty inherent in estimating
future processing volumes and pipeline throughput, cost of goods
and services and other risks as outlined below.

Also, the financial results of Devon’s
foreign operations are subject to currency exchange rate risks.
Additional risks are discussed below in the context of line
items most affected by such risks.

Specific Assumptions and Risks Related to
    Price and Production Estimates

Prices for oil, natural gas and NGLs are
determined primarily by prevailing market conditions. Market
conditions for these products are influenced by regional and
worldwide economic conditions, weather and other local market
conditions. These factors are beyond Devon’s control and
are difficult to predict. In addition to volatility in general,
Devon’s oil, gas and NGL prices may vary considerably due
to differences between regional markets, transportation
availability and costs and demand for the various products
derived from oil, natural gas and NGLs. Substantially all of
Devon’s revenues are attributable to sales, processing and
transportation of these three commodities. Consequently,
Devon’s financial results and resources are highly
influenced by price volatility.

Estimates for Devon’s future production of
oil, natural gas and NGLs are based on the assumption that
market demand and prices for oil, gas and NGLs will continue at
levels that allow for profitable production of these products.
There can be no assurance of such stability. Also, Devon’s
international production of oil, natural gas and NGLs is
governed by payout agreements with the governments of the
countries in which Devon operates. If the payout under these
agreements is attained earlier than projected, Devon’s net
production and proved reserves in such areas could be reduced.

Estimates for Devon’s future processing and
transport of oil, natural gas and NGLs are based on the
assumption that market demand and prices for oil, gas and NGLs
will continue at levels that allow for profitable processing and
transport of these products. There can be no assurance of such
stability.

The production, transportation, processing and
marketing of oil, natural gas and NGLs are complex processes
which are subject to disruption due to transportation and
processing availability, mechanical failure, human error,
meteorological events including, but not limited to, hurricanes,
and numerous other



factors. The following forward-looking statements
were prepared assuming demand, curtailment, producibility and
general market conditions for Devon’s oil, natural gas and
NGLs during 2004 will be substantially similar to those of 2003,
unless otherwise noted.

Unless otherwise noted, all of the following
dollar amounts are expressed in U.S. dollars. Amounts
related to Canadian operations have been converted to
U.S. dollars using a projected average 2004 exchange
rate of $0.7600 U.S. dollar to
$1.00 Canadian dollar. The actual 2004 exchange rate
may vary materially from this estimate. Such variations could
have a material effect on the following estimates.

Though Devon has completed several major property
acquisitions and dispositions in recent years, these
transactions are opportunity driven. Thus, the following
forward-looking data excludes the financial and operating
effects of potential property acquisitions or divestitures
during the year 2004.

Geographic Reporting Areas for 2004

The following estimates of production, average
price differentials and capital expenditures are provided
separately for each of the following geographic areas:

Year 2004 Potential Operating Items

Oil, Gas and NGL
Production

Set forth in the following
paragraphs are individual estimates of Devon’s oil, gas and
NGL production for 2004. On a combined basis, Devon estimates
its 2004 oil, gas and NGL production will total between 256 and
261 MMBoe. Of this total, approximately 95% is estimated to
be produced from reserves classified as “proved” at
December 31, 2003.

Oil Production

Devon
expects its oil production in 2004 to total between 78 and
80 MMBbls. Of this total, approximately 97% is estimated to
be produced from reserves classified as “proved” at
December 31, 2003. The expected ranges of production by
area are as follows:

Oil Prices —
Fixed

Through various price swaps,
Devon has fixed the price it will receive in 2004 on a portion
of its oil production. The following table includes information
on this fixed-price production by area. Where necessary, the
prices have been adjusted for certain transportation costs that
are netted against the prices recorded by Devon.



Oil Prices —
Floating

Devon’s 2004 average
prices for each of its areas are expected to differ from the
NYMEX price as set forth in the following table. The NYMEX price
is the monthly average of settled prices on each trading day for
West Texas Intermediate crude oil delivered at Cushing, Oklahoma.

Devon has also entered into costless price
collars that set a floor and ceiling price for a portion of its
2004 oil production that is otherwise subject to floating
prices. The floor and ceiling prices related to domestic and
Canadian oil production are based on the NYMEX price. The floor
and ceiling prices related to international oil production are
based on the Brent price. If the NYMEX or Brent price is outside
of the ranges set by the floor and ceiling prices in the various
collars, Devon and the counterparty to the collars will settle
the difference. Any such settlements will either increase or
decrease Devon’s oil revenues for the period. Because
Devon’s oil volumes are often sold at prices that differ
from the NYMEX or Brent price due to differing quality (i.e.,
sweet crude versus sour crude) and transportation costs from
different geographic areas, the floor and ceiling prices of the
various collars do not reflect actual limits of Devon’s
realized prices for the production volumes related to the
collars.

The international oil prices shown in the
following table have been adjusted to a NYMEX-based price, using
Devon’s estimates of 2004 differentials between NYMEX and
the Brent price upon which the collars are based.

To simplify presentation, Devon’s costless
collars as of December 31, 2003, have been aggregated in
the following table according to similar floor prices and
similar ceiling prices. The floor and ceiling prices shown are
weighted averages of the various collars in each aggregated
group.



Gas Production

Devon
expects its 2004 gas production to total between 936 Bcf
and 948 Bcf. Of this total, approximately 93% is estimated
to be produced from reserves classified as “proved” at
December 31, 2003. The expected ranges of production by
area are as follows:

Gas Prices —
Fixed

Through various price swaps and
fixed-price physical delivery contracts, Devon has fixed the
price it will receive in 2004 on a portion of its natural gas
production. The following table includes information on this
fixed-price production by area. Where necessary, the prices have
been adjusted for certain transportation costs that are netted
against the prices recorded by Devon, and the prices have also
been adjusted for the Btu content of the gas hedged.

Gas Prices —
Floating

For the natural gas
production for which prices have not been fixed, Devon’s
2004 average prices for each of its areas are expected to differ
from the NYMEX price as set forth in the following table. The
NYMEX price is determined to be the first-of-month South
Louisiana Henry Hub price index as published monthly in

Inside FERC.

Devon has also entered into costless price
collars that set a floor and ceiling price for a portion of its
2004 natural gas production that otherwise is subject to
floating prices. If the applicable monthly price indices are
outside of the ranges set by the floor and ceiling prices in the
various collars, Devon and the counterparty to the collars will
settle the difference. Any such settlements will either increase
or decrease Devon’s gas revenues for the period. Because
Devon’s gas volumes are often sold at prices that differ
from the related regional indices, and due to differing Btu
contents of gas produced, the floor and ceiling prices of the
various collars do not reflect actual limits of Devon’s
realized prices for the production volumes related to the
collars.

The prices shown in the following table have been
adjusted to a NYMEX-based price, using Devon’s estimates of
2004 differentials between NYMEX and the specific regional
indices upon which the collars are based. The floor and ceiling
prices related to the domestic collars are based on various
regional first-of-the-month price indices as published monthly
by

Inside FERC.

The floor and ceiling prices related to
the Canadian collars are based on the AECO index as published by
the

Canadian Gas Price Reporter.



To simplify presentation, Devon’s costless
collars have been aggregated in the following table according to
similar floor prices and similar ceiling prices. The floor and
ceiling prices shown are weighted averages of the various
collars in each aggregated group.

In the April 2003 Ocean merger, Devon assumed an
obligation under a forward sale contract to deliver contractual
quantities of 55,600 MMBtu per day in 2004. Under the terms
of this forward sale, the purchaser is obligated to make
additional payments in the event the spot price exceeds
$3.00 per MMBtu in 2004. The spot price is based on a
relevant regional first-of-the-month price index as published
monthly by

Inside FERC

as determined by Devon. As part of
the purchase price allocation, Devon recorded deferred revenues
related to this forward gas sale based on the $3.00 price. These
deferred revenues will be recognized during 2004. If the monthly
spot prices exceed these prices, Devon will receive additional
cash payments from the purchaser, which will also be recorded as
gas revenues. Therefore, if the monthly spot prices for 2004
exceed $3.00 per MMBtu, Devon will recognize gas revenues
on the related quantities at a floating market price, but will
receive actual cash payments equal only to the difference
between the floating market price and $3.00. If the monthly spot
prices for 2004 are equal to or less than $3.00 per MMBtu,
Devon will recognize gas revenues on the related quantities at a
fixed price of $3.00, and will receive no cash consideration for
the delivered quantities of gas.



NGL Production

Devon
expects its 2004 production of NGLs to total between
22 MMBbls and 23 MMBbls. Of this total, 95% is
estimated to be produced from reserves classified as
“proved” at December 31, 2003. The expected
ranges of production by area are as follows:

Marketing and Midstream Revenues and
Expenses

Devon’s marketing and
midstream revenues and expenses are derived primarily from its
natural gas processing plants and natural gas transport
pipelines. These revenues and expenses vary in response to
several factors. The factors include, but are not limited to,
changes in production from wells connected to the pipelines and
related processing plants, changes in the absolute and relative
prices of natural gas and NGLs, provisions of the contract
arrangements and the amount of repair and workover activity
required to maintain anticipated processing levels.

These factors, coupled with uncertainty of future
natural gas and NGL prices, increase the uncertainty inherent in
estimating future marketing and midstream revenues and expenses.
Given these uncertainties, Devon estimates that 2004 marketing
and midstream revenues will be between $1.07 billion and
$1.14 billion, and marketing and midstream expenses will be
between $860 million and $910 million.

Production and Operating
Expenses

Devon’s production and
operating expenses include lease operating expenses,
transportation costs and production taxes. These expenses vary
in response to several factors. Among the most significant of
these factors are additions to or deletions from Devon’s
property base, changes in production tax rates, changes in the
general price level of services and materials that are used in
the operation of the properties and the amount of repair and
workover activity required. Oil, natural gas and NGL prices also
have an effect on lease operating expenses and impact the
economic feasibility of planned workover projects.

Given these uncertainties, Devon estimates that
2004 lease operating expenses will be between $1.05 billion
and $1.12 billion, transportation costs will be between
$220 million and $230 million, and production taxes
will be between 3.1% and 3.6% of consolidated oil, natural gas
and NGL revenues, excluding revenues related to hedges upon
which production taxes are not incurred.

Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization
(“DD&A”)

The 2004 oil
and gas property DD&A rate will depend on various factors.
Most notable among such factors are the amount of proved
reserves that will be added from drilling or acquisition efforts
in 2004 compared to the costs incurred for such efforts, and the
revisions to Devon’s year-end 2003 reserve estimates that,
based on prior experience, are likely to be made during 2004.

Given these uncertainties, oil and gas property
related DD&A expense for 2004 is expected to be between
$2.2 billion and $2.3 billion. Additionally, Devon
expects its DD&A expense related to non-oil and gas property
fixed assets to total between $120 million and
$130 million. Based on these DD&A amounts and the
production estimates set forth earlier, Devon expects its
consolidated DD&A rate will be between $9.00 per Boe
and $9.30 per Boe.

Accretion of Asset Retirement
Obligation

As a result of the
requirements of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 143,

Accounting for Asset Retirement
Obligations,

Devon expects its 2004 accretion of its asset
retirement obligation to be between $40 million and
$45 million.

General and Administrative Expenses
(“G&A”)

Devon’s
G&A includes the costs of many different goods and services
used in support of its business. These goods and services are
subject to general price level increases or decreases. In
addition, Devon’s G&A varies with its level of activity
and the related staffing needs as well as with the amount of
professional services required during any given period. Should
Devon’s needs or the prices of the required goods and
services differ significantly from current expectations, actual
G&A could vary materially from the estimate. Given these
limitations, consolidated G&A in 2004 is expected to be
between $305 million and $325 million.



This estimate does not include the potential
non-cash effect on G&A caused by changes in the value of
investments of deferred compensation plans. Positive returns
from these investments increase Devon’s G&A, while
negative returns decrease G&A.

Reduction of Carrying Value of Oil and Gas
Properties

Devon follows the full cost
method of accounting for its oil and gas properties. Under the
full cost method, Devon’s net book value of oil and gas
properties, less related deferred income taxes and asset
retirement obligations (the “costs to be recovered”),
may not exceed a calculated “full cost ceiling.” The
ceiling limitation is the discounted estimated after-tax future
net revenues from oil and gas properties plus the cost of
properties not subject to amortization. The ceiling is imposed
separately by country. In calculating future net revenues,
current prices and costs are generally held constant
indefinitely. The costs to be recovered are compared to the
ceiling on a quarterly basis. If the costs to be recovered
exceed the ceiling, the excess is written off as an expense. An
expense recorded in one period may not be reversed in a
subsequent period even though higher oil and gas prices may have
increased the ceiling applicable to the subsequent period.

Because the ceiling calculation dictates that
prices in effect as of the last day of the applicable quarter
are held constant indefinitely, and requires a 10% discount
factor, the resulting value is not indicative of the true fair
value of the reserves. Oil and natural gas prices have
historically been cyclical and, on any particular day at the end
of a quarter, can be either substantially higher or lower than
Devon’s long-term price forecast that is a barometer for
true fair value. Therefore, oil and gas property writedowns that
result from applying the full cost ceiling limitation, and that
are caused by fluctuations in price as opposed to reductions to
the underlying quantities of reserves, should not be viewed as
absolute indicators of a reduction of the ultimate value of the
related reserves.

Because of the volatile nature of oil and gas
prices, it is not possible to predict whether Devon will incur a
full cost writedown in future periods.

Interest Expense

Future interest rates, debt outstanding and oil, natural gas and
NGL prices have a significant effect on Devon’s interest
expense. Devon can only marginally influence the prices it will
receive in 2004 from sales of oil, natural gas and NGLs and the
resulting cash flow. These factors increase the margin of error
inherent in estimating future interest expense. Other factors
which affect interest expense, such as the amount and timing of
capital expenditures, are within Devon’s control.

The interest expense in 2004 related to
Devon’s fixed-rate debt, including net accretion of related
discounts, will be approximately $475 million. This
fixed-rate debt removes the uncertainty of future interest rates
from some, but not all, of Devon’s long-term debt.
Devon’s floating rate debt is discussed in the following
paragraphs.

Devon has a 5-year term loan facility due in 2006
that bears interest at floating rates. Devon also has various
debt instruments which have been converted to floating rate debt
through the use of interest rate swaps. Devon’s floating
rate debt is as follows:

Based on Devon’s interest rate projections,
interest expense on its floating rate debt, including net
amortization of premiums, is expected to total between
$45 million and $55 million in 2004.

Devon’s interest expense totals have
historically included payments of facility and agency fees,
amortization of debt issuance costs, the effect of interest rate
swaps not accounted for as hedges, and other miscellaneous items
not related to the debt balances outstanding. Devon expects
between $15 million and



$20 million of such items to be included in
its 2004 interest expense. Also, Devon expects to capitalize
between $25 million and $30 million of interest during
2004.

Based on the information related to interest
expense set forth herein and assuming no material changes in
Devon’s levels of indebtedness or prevailing interest
rates, Devon expects its 2004 interest expense will be between
$510 million and $520 million.

Effects of Changes in Foreign Currency
Rates

Devon’s Canadian subsidiary
has $400 million of fixed-rate senior notes which are
denominated in U.S. dollars. Changes in the exchange rate
between the U.S. dollar and the Canadian dollar during 2004
will increase or decrease the Canadian dollar equivalent balance
of this debt. Such changes in the Canadian dollar equivalent
balance of the debt are required to be included in determining
net earnings for the period in which the exchange rate changes.
Because of the variability of the exchange rate, it is difficult
to estimate the effect which will be recorded in 2004. However,
based on the December 31, 2003,
Canadian-to-U.S. dollar exchange rate of $0.7738 and
Devon’s forecast 2004 rate of $0.7600, Devon expects to
record an expense of approximately $7 million. The actual
2004 effect will depend on the exchange rate as of
December 31, 2004.

Other Revenues

Devon’s other revenues in 2004 are expected to be between
$30 million and $35 million.

Income Taxes

Devon’s financial income tax rate in 2004 will vary
materially depending on the actual amount of financial pre-tax
earnings. The tax rate for 2004 will be significantly affected
by the proportional share of consolidated pre-tax earnings
generated by U.S., Canadian and International operations due to
the different tax rates of each country. There are certain tax
deductions and credits that will have a fixed impact on
2004’s income tax expense regardless of the level of
pre-tax earnings that are produced. Given the uncertainty of its
pre-tax earnings amount, Devon estimates that its consolidated
financial income tax rate in 2004 will be between 25% and 45%.
The current income tax rate is expected to be between 20% and
30%. The deferred income tax rate is expected to be between 5%
and 15%. Significant changes in estimated capital expenditures,
production levels of oil, gas and NGLs, the prices of such
products, marketing and midstream revenues, or any of the
various expense items could materially alter the effect of the
aforementioned tax deductions and credits on 2004’s
financial income tax rates.

Year 2004 Potential Capital Sources, Uses and
Liquidity

Capital Expenditures

Though Devon has completed several major property acquisitions
in recent years, these transactions are opportunity driven.
Thus, Devon does not “budget”, nor can it reasonably
predict, the timing or size of such possible acquisitions, if
any.

Devon’s capital expenditures budget is based
on an expected range of future oil, natural gas and NGL prices
as well as the expected costs of the capital additions. Should
actual prices received differ materially from Devon’s price
expectations for its future production, some projects may be
accelerated or deferred and, consequently, may increase or
decrease total 2004 capital expenditures. In addition, if the
actual material or labor costs of the budgeted items vary
significantly from the anticipated amounts, actual capital
expenditures could vary materially from Devon’s estimates.

Given the limitations discussed, Devon expects
its 2004 capital expenditures for drilling and development
efforts, plus related facilities, to total between
$2.14 billion and $2.54 billion. These amounts include
between $510 million and $550 million for drilling and
facilities costs related to reserves classified as proved as of
year-end 2003. In addition, these amounts include between
$950 million and $1.2 billion for other low
risk/reward projects and between $680 million and
$760 million for new, higher risk/reward projects. Low
risk/reward projects include development drilling that does not
offset currently productive units and for which there is not a
certainty of continued production from a known productive
formation. Higher risk/reward projects include exploratory
drilling to find and produce oil or gas in previously untested
fault blocks or new reservoirs.



The following table shows expected drilling and
facilities expenditures by geographic area.

In addition to the above expenditures for
drilling and development, Devon expects to spend between
$90 million to $100 million on its marketing and
midstream assets, which include its oil pipelines, gas
processing plants, CO


removal facilities and gas
transport pipelines. Devon also expects to capitalize between
$160 million and $170 million of G&A expenses in
accordance with the full cost method of accounting and to
capitalize between $25 million and $30 million of
interest. Devon also expects to pay between $40 million and
$45 million for plugging and abandonment charges, and to
spend between $90 million and $100 million for other
non-oil and gas property fixed assets.

Other Cash Uses

Devon’s management expects the policy of paying a quarterly
common stock dividend to continue. With the February 2004
increase in the quarterly dividend rate to $0.10 per share
and 239 million shares of common stock outstanding in
February 2004, dividends are expected to approximate
$96 million. Also, Devon has $150 million of 6.49%
cumulative preferred stock upon which it will pay
$10 million of dividends in 2004.

Capital Resources and
Liquidity

Devon’s estimated 2004
cash uses, including its drilling and development activities,
are expected to be funded primarily through a combination of
working capital and operating cash flow, with the remainder, if
any, funded with borrowings from Devon’s credit facilities.
The amount of operating cash flow to be generated during 2004 is
uncertain due to the factors affecting revenues and expenses as
previously cited. However, Devon expects its combined capital
resources to be more than adequate to fund its anticipated
capital expenditures and other cash uses for 2004. As of
December 31, 2003, Devon has $800 million available
under its $1 billion of credit facilities, net of
$200 million of outstanding letters of credit. If
significant acquisitions or other unplanned capital requirements
arise during the year, Devon could utilize its existing credit
facilities and/or seek to establish and utilize other sources of
financing.

Item 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
    about Market Risk

The primary objective of the following
information is to provide forward-looking quantitative and
qualitative information about Devon’s potential exposure to
market risks. The term “market risk” refers to the
risk of loss arising from adverse changes in oil, gas and NGL
prices, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. The
disclosures are not meant to be precise indicators of expected
future losses, but rather indicators of reasonably possible
losses. This forward-looking information provides indicators of
how Devon views and manages its ongoing market risk exposures.
All of Devon’s market risk sensitive instruments were
entered into for purposes other than speculative trading.

Commodity Price Risk

Devon’s major market risk exposure is in the
pricing applicable to its oil, gas and NGL production. Realized
pricing is primarily driven by the prevailing worldwide price
for crude oil and spot market prices applicable to its U.S. and
Canadian natural gas and NGL production. Pricing for oil, gas
and NGL production has been volatile and unpredictable for
several years.



Devon periodically enters into financial hedging
activities with respect to a portion of its projected oil and
natural gas production through various financial transactions
which hedge the future prices received. These transactions
include financial price swaps whereby Devon will receive a fixed
price for its production and pay a variable market price to the
contract counterparty, and costless price collars that set a
floor and ceiling price for the hedged production. If the
applicable monthly price indices are outside of the ranges set
by the floor and ceiling prices in the various collars, Devon
and the counterparty to the collars will settle the difference.
These financial hedging activities are intended to support oil
and natural gas prices at targeted levels and to manage
Devon’s exposure to oil and gas price fluctuations. Devon
does not hold or issue derivative instruments for speculative
trading purposes.

Devon’s total hedged positions on future
production as of December 31, 2003 are set forth in the
following tables.

Price Swaps

Through various price swaps, Devon has fixed the
price it will receive on a portion of its oil and natural gas
production in 2004 through 2005. The following tables include
information on this fixed-price production by area. Where
necessary, the gas prices related to these swaps have been
adjusted for certain transportation costs that are netted
against the price recorded by Devon, and the price has also been
adjusted for the Btu content of the gas production that has been
hedged.

Oil Production

Gas Production

Costless Price Collars

Devon has also entered into costless price
collars that set a floor and ceiling price for a portion of its
2004 and 2005 oil production that otherwise are subject to
floating prices. The floor and ceiling prices



related to domestic and Canadian oil production
are based on the NYMEX price. The floor and ceiling prices
related to international oil production are based on the Brent
price. If the NYMEX or Brent price is outside of the ranges set
by the floor and ceiling prices in the various collars, Devon
and the counterparty to the collars will settle the difference.
Any such settlements will either increase or decrease
Devon’s oil revenues for the period. Because Devon’s
oil volumes are often sold at prices that differ from the NYMEX
or Brent price due to differing quality (i.e., sweet crude
versus sour crude) and transportation costs from different
geographic areas, the floor and ceiling prices of the various
collars do not reflect actual limits of Devon’s realized
prices for the production volumes related to the collars.

Devon has also entered into costless price
collars that set a floor and ceiling price for a portion of its
2004 and 2005 natural gas production that otherwise is subject
to floating prices. If the applicable monthly price indices are
outside of the ranges set by the floor and ceiling prices in the
various collars, Devon and the counterparty to the collars will
settle the difference. Any such settlements will either increase
or decrease Devon’s gas revenues for the period. Because
Devon’s gas volumes are often sold at prices that differ
from the related regional indices, and due to differing Btu
contents of gas produced, the floor and ceiling prices of the
various collars do not reflect actual limits of Devon’s
realized prices for the production volumes related to the
collars.

To simplify presentation, Devon’s costless
collars as of December 31, 2003 have been aggregated in the
following tables according to similar floor prices and similar
ceiling prices. The floor and ceiling prices shown are weighted
averages of the various collars in each aggregated group.

The international oil prices shown in the
following tables have been adjusted to a NYMEX-based price,
using Devon’s estimates of future differentials between
NYMEX and the Brent price upon which the collars are based.

The natural gas prices shown in the following
tables have been adjusted to a NYMEX-based price, using
Devon’s estimates of future differentials between NYMEX and
the specific regional indices upon which the collars are based.
The floor and ceiling prices related to the domestic collars are
based on various regional first-of-the-month price indices as
published monthly by

Inside FERC.

The floor and ceiling
prices related to the Canadian collars are based on the AECO
index as published by the

Canadian Gas Price Reporter.

Oil Production



Gas Production



Devon uses a sensitivity analysis technique to
evaluate the hypothetical effect that changes in the market
value of oil and gas may have on the fair value of its commodity
hedging instruments. At December 31, 2003, a 10% increase
in the underlying commodities’ prices would have increased
the net liabilities recorded for Devon’s commodity hedging
instruments by $253 million.

Fixed-Price Physical Delivery
    Contracts

In addition to the commodity hedging instruments
described above, Devon also manages its exposure to oil and gas
price risks by periodically entering into fixed-price contracts.

Devon has fixed-price physical delivery contracts
for the years 2004 through 2011 covering Canadian natural gas
production ranging from 8 Bcf to 16 Bcf per year. From
2012 through 2016, Devon also has Canadian gas volumes subject
to fixed-price contracts, but the yearly volumes are less than
1 Bcf.

Interest Rate Risk

At December 31, 2003, Devon had debt
outstanding of $8.9 billion. Of this amount,
$6.9 billion, or 77%, bears interest at fixed rates
averaging 7.0%. Devon also has a floating-to-fixed interest rate
swap in which Devon will record a fixed rate of 6.4% on a
notional amount of $97 million in 2003 through 2006 and
6.3% on a notional amount of $30 million in 2007.

The remaining $2.0 billion of debt
outstanding bears interest at floating rates. Included in the
floating-rate debt is debt with floating rates and fixed-rate
debt which has been converted to floating-rate debt through
interest rate swaps. The terms of Devon’s various
floating-rate debt facilities (revolving credit facilities and
term-loan credit facility) allow interest rates to be fixed at
Devon’s option for periods of between seven to
180 days. A 10% increase in short-term interest rates on
the floating-rate debt facilities outstanding as of
December 31, 2003 would equal approximately 22 basis
points. Such an increase in interest rates would increase
Devon’s 2004 interest expense by approximately
$1 million assuming borrowed amounts remain outstanding for
all of 2004. Following is a table summarizing the
fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps with the related debt
instrument and notional amounts.

Devon uses a sensitivity analysis technique to
evaluate the hypothetical effect that changes in interest rates
may have on the fair value of its interest rate swap
instruments. At December 31, 2003, a 10% increase in the
underlying interest rates would have decreased the fair value of
Devon’s interest rate swaps by $8 million.

The above sensitivity analysis for interest rate
risk excludes accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued
liabilities because of the short-term maturity of such
instruments.

Foreign Currency Risk

Devon’s net assets, net earnings and cash
flows from its Canadian subsidiaries are based on the
U.S. dollar equivalent of such amounts measured in the
Canadian dollar functional currency. Assets and liabilities of
the Canadian subsidiaries are translated to U.S. dollars
using the applicable exchange rate as of the end of a reporting
period. Revenues, expenses and cash flow are translated using
the average exchange rate during the reporting period.

Devon’s Canadian subsidiary, Devon Canada,
has $400 million of fixed-rate long-term debt that is
denominated in U.S. dollars. Changes in the currency
conversion rate between the Canadian and



U.S. dollars between the beginning and end
of a reporting period increase or decrease the expected amount
of Canadian dollars required to repay the notes. The amount of
such increase or decrease is required to be included in
determining net earnings for the period in which the exchange
rate changes. A 10% decrease in the Canadian-to-U.S. dollar
exchange rate would cause Devon to record a charge of
approximately $40 million in 2004. The $400 million
becomes due in March 2011. Until then, the gains or losses
caused by the exchange rate fluctuations have no effect on cash
flow.



Item 8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary
    Data

INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND
CONSOLIDATED

FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

All financial statement schedules are omitted as
they are inapplicable or the required information has been
included in the consolidated financial statements or notes
thereto.



INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT

The Board of Directors and Stockholders

Devon Energy Corporation:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated
balance sheets of Devon Energy Corporation and subsidiaries as
of December 31, 2003 and 2002 and the related consolidated
statements of operations, stockholders’ equity and
comprehensive income (loss) and cash flows for each of the years
in the three year period ended December 31, 2003. These
consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the
Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our
audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with
auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of
America. Those standards require that we plan and perform the
audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial
statements referred to above present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position of Devon Energy Corporation and
subsidiaries as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, and the
results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the
years in the three year period ended December 31, 2003 in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America.

As described in Note 1 to the consolidated
financial statements, as of January 1, 2001, the Company
changed its method of accounting for derivative instruments and
hedging activities; effective July 1, 2001, adopted the
provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
(“SFAS”) No. 141,

Business Combinations,

and certain provisions of SFAS No. 142,

Goodwill
and Other Intangible Assets;

effective January 1, 2002,
adopted the remaining provisions of SFAS No. 142; and
effective January 1, 2003, adopted SFAS No. 143,

Asset Retirement Obligations.

KPMG LLP

Oklahoma City, Oklahoma

February 4, 2004



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial
statements.



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF
OPERATIONS

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial
statements.



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS — (Continued)

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial
statements.



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’
EQUITY AND

COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial
statements.



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH
FLOWS

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial
statements.



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

1. Summary of Significant Accounting
    Policies

Accounting policies used by Devon Energy
Corporation and subsidiaries (“Devon”) reflect
industry practices and conform to accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America. The more
significant of such policies are briefly discussed below.

Nature of Business and Principles of
    Consolidation

Devon is engaged primarily in oil and gas
exploration, development and production, and the acquisition of
properties. Such activities domestically are concentrated in
four geographic areas:

Devon’s Canadian activities are located
primarily in the Western Canadian Sedimentary Basin, and
Devon’s international activities — outside of
North America — are located primarily in Azerbaijan,
China, Egypt, and areas in West Africa, including Equatorial
Guinea, Gabon and Cote d’Ivoire.

Devon also has marketing and midstream operations
which are responsible for marketing natural gas, crude oil and
NGLs, and the construction and operation of pipelines, storage
and treating facilities and gas processing plants. These
services are performed for Devon as well as for unrelated third
parties.

The accounts of Devon’s wholly owned
subsidiaries are included in the accompanying consolidated
financial statements. All significant intercompany accounts and
transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

Use of Estimates in the Preparation of
    Financial Statements

The preparation of financial statements in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America requires management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities
at the date of the financial statements, and the reported
amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Significant items subject to such estimates and assumptions
include the carrying value of oil and gas properties, goodwill
impairment assessment, asset retirement obligations, deferred
income taxes, valuation of derivative instruments, and
obligations related to employee benefits. Actual amounts could
differ from those estimates.

Property and Equipment

Devon follows the full cost method of accounting
for its oil and gas properties. Accordingly, all costs
incidental to the acquisition, exploration and development of
oil and gas properties, including costs of undeveloped
leasehold, dry holes and leasehold equipment, are capitalized.
Internal costs incurred that are directly identified with
acquisition, exploration and development activities undertaken
by Devon for its own account, and which are not related to
production, general corporate overhead or similar activities,
are also capitalized. Interest costs incurred and attributable
to unproved oil and gas properties under current evaluation and
major development projects of oil and gas properties are also
capitalized.



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Unproved properties are excluded from amortized
capitalized costs until it is determined whether or not proved
reserves can be assigned to such properties. Devon assesses its
unproved properties for impairment quarterly. Significant
unproved properties are assessed individually. Costs of
insignificant unproved properties are transferred to amortizable
costs over average holding periods ranging from three years for
onshore properties to seven years for offshore properties.

Net capitalized costs are limited to the
estimated future net revenues, discounted at 10% per annum,
from proved oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids reserves
plus the cost of properties not subject to amortization. Such
limitations are imposed separately on a country-by-country basis
and are tested quarterly. Capitalized costs are depleted by an
equivalent unit-of-production method, converting gas to oil at
the ratio of six thousand cubic feet of natural gas to one
barrel of oil. Depletion is calculated using the capitalized
costs, including estimated asset retirement costs, plus the
estimated future expenditures (based on current costs) to be
incurred in developing proved reserves, net of estimated salvage
values. No gain or loss is recognized upon disposal of oil and
gas properties unless such disposal significantly alters the
relationship between capitalized costs and proved reserves in a
particular country. All costs related to production activities,
including workover costs incurred solely to maintain or increase
levels of production from an existing completion interval, are
charged to expense as incurred.

Depreciation and amortization of other property
and equipment, including marketing and midstream assets and
leasehold improvements, are provided using the straight-line
method based on estimated useful lives from three to 39 years.

In 2003, the Securities Exchange Commission
(“SEC”) inquired of the Financial Accounting Standards
Board regarding the application of certain provisions of
SFAS No. 141,

Business Combinations,

(“SFAS No. 141”) and SFAS No. 142,

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,

(“SFAS No. 142”) to oil and gas companies.
SFAS Nos. 141 and 142 became effective for transactions
subsequent to June 30, 2001. SFAS No. 141
requires that all business combinations initiated after
June 30, 2001 be accounted for using the purchase method
and that acquired intangible assets be disaggregated and
reported separately from goodwill. Specifically, the SEC’s
inquiry is based on whether costs of contract-based drilling and
mineral use rights (“mineral rights”) should be
recorded and disclosed as intangible assets under the guidance
in SFAS Nos. 141 and 142. The current practice for Devon
and the industry is to present oil and gas related assets,
including mineral rights, as property and equipment (tangible
assets) on the balance sheet. Since June 30, 2001, Devon
has entered into business combinations with Anderson
Exploration, Ltd., Mitchell Energy & Development Corp.,
and Ocean Energy, Inc. with an aggregate accounting purchase
price of $18.2 billion. The majority of the purchase price
has been allocated to oil and gas property.

An Emerging Issues Task Force Working Group
(“EITF”) has been created to research the accounting
and disclosure treatment of mineral rights for oil and gas
companies. As a result, the EITF has added Issue No. 03-O,
“Whether Mineral Rights are Tangible or Intangible
Assets,” and Issue No. 03-S, “Application of FASB
Statement No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, to
Oil and Gas Companies”. Currently, Devon does not believe
that generally accepted accounting principles require the
classification of mineral rights as intangible assets and
continues to classify these assets as oil and gas properties.
However, the decisions of the EITF may affect how Devon
classifies these assets in the future. If the EITF ultimately
determines that SFAS Nos. 141 and 142 require oil and gas
companies to classify



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

mineral rights as separate intangible assets, the
amounts included in oil and gas properties on the balance sheet
that would be reclassified are not expected to exceed the
following amounts:

Amounts to be reclassified would be impacted by
the provisions of the EITF consensus. The ultimate
reclassification amount could be materially different than the
amounts above as numerous decisions that could be included in
the consensus would impact the composition and amortization of
the intangible assets, if any.

Devon believes that cash flows and results of
operations would not be affected since such intangible assets
would likely continue to be depleted and assessed for impairment
in accordance with Devon’s accounting policies as
prescribed under the full cost method of accounting for oil and
gas properties. Further, Devon does not believe the
classification of the mineral rights as intangible assets would
affect compliance with covenants under its debt agreements.

Effective January 1, 2003, Devon adopted
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”)
No. 143,

Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations

(“SFAS No. 143”) using a cumulative effect
approach to recognize transition amounts for asset retirement
obligations, asset retirement costs and accumulated
depreciation. SFAS No. 143 requires liability
recognition for retirement obligations associated with tangible
long-lived assets, such as producing well sites, offshore
production platforms, and natural gas processing plants. The
obligations included within the scope of SFAS No. 143
are those for which a company faces a legal obligation. The
initial measurement of the asset retirement obligation is to
record a separate liability at its fair value with an offsetting
asset retirement cost recorded as an increase to the related
property and equipment on the consolidated balance sheet. The
asset retirement cost is depreciated using a systematic and
rational method similar to that used for the associated property
and equipment.

Devon previously estimated costs of
dismantlement, removal, site reclamation, and other similar
activities in the total costs that are subject to depreciation,
depletion, and amortization. However, Devon did not record a
separate asset or liability for such amounts. Upon adoption,
Devon recorded a cumulative-effect-type adjustment for an
increase to net earnings of $16 million net of deferred
taxes of $10 million. Additionally, Devon established an
asset retirement obligation of $453 million, an increase to
property and equipment of $400 million and a decrease in
accumulated DD&A of $79 million.



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Following is a reconciliation of reported net
income and the related earnings per share amounts assuming the
provisions of SFAS No. 143 had been adopted as of
January 1, 2001.

Following is a summary of the asset retirement
obligation assuming the provisions of SFAS No. 143 had
been adopted as of January 1, 2001.

Marketable Securities and Other
    Investments

Devon reports investments in debt and equity and
other short-term securities at fair value, except for debt
securities in which management has the ability and intent to
hold until maturity. Devon’s only significant investment
security is the investment in approximately 7.1 million
shares of ChevronTexaco Corporation (“ChevronTexaco”)
common stock which is reported at fair value. Except for
unrealized losses that are determined to be “other than
temporary”, the tax effected unrealized gain or loss on the
investment in ChevronTexaco common stock is recognized in other
comprehensive income (loss) and reported as a separate component
of stockholders’ equity.

Goodwill

Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase
price of business combinations over the fair value of the net
assets acquired. Effective July 1, 2001, Devon adopted the
provisions of SFAS No. 141,

Business



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Combinations,

and
certain provisions of SFAS No. 142,

Goodwill and
Other Intangible Assets.

Effective January 1, 2002
Devon adopted the remaining provisions of
SFAS No. 142. Goodwill and intangible assets with
indefinite useful lives are not amortized but are instead tested
for impairment at least annually. As of January 1, 2002,
Devon had unamortized goodwill in the amount of
$2.2 billion, which was subject to the transitional
goodwill impairment assessment provisions of
SFAS No. 142. During 2002, goodwill increased to
$3.6 billion at December 31, 2002 due primarily to the
January 2002 Mitchell merger. As a result of the April 2003
Ocean merger and the effects of changes in the
Canadian-to-U.S. dollar foreign exchange rates, goodwill
increased $1.5 billion and $0.4 billion, respectively,
to $5.5 billion at the end of 2003. Devon performed its
transitional impairment assessment of goodwill as of
January 1, 2002 and its annual assessments of goodwill in
the fourth quarter of 2003 and 2002. Based on these assessments,
no impairment of goodwill was required.

Following is a reconciliation of reported net
income and the related earnings per share amounts assuming the
provisions of SFAS No. 142 had been adopted as of
January 1, 2001.

Revenue Recognition and Gas
    Balancing

Oil, gas and NGL revenues are recognized when the
products are sold. During the course of normal operations, Devon
and other joint interest owners of natural gas reservoirs will
take more or less than their respective ownership share of the
natural gas volumes produced. These volumetric imbalances are
monitored over the lives of the wells’ production
capability. If an imbalance exists at the time the wells’
reserves are depleted, settlements are made among the joint
interest owners under a variety of arrangements.

Devon follows the sales method of accounting for
gas production imbalances. A liability is recorded when
Devon’s excess takes of natural gas volumes exceed its
estimated remaining recoverable reserves. No receivables are
recorded for those wells where Devon has taken less than its
ownership share of gas production.

Marketing and midstream revenues are recorded on
the sales method at the time products are sold or services are
provided to third parties. Revenues and expenses attributable to
Devon’s NGL purchase and processing contracts are reported
on a gross basis since Devon takes title to the products and has
risks and rewards of ownership.



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Major Purchasers

No purchaser accounted for over 10% of revenues
in 2003 and 2002. In 2001, Enron Capital and Trade Resource
Corporation accounted for 16% of Devon’s combined oil, gas
and natural gas liquids sales.

On December 2, 2001, Enron Corp. and certain
of its subsidiaries filed voluntary petitions for reorganization
under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code.
Prior to this date, Devon had terminated substantially all of
its agreements to sell oil, gas or NGLs to Enron related
entities. Devon incurred $3 million of losses in 2001 for
sales to Enron related subsidiaries which were not collected
prior to the bankruptcy filing.

Hedging Activities

Devon enters into oil and gas financial
instruments to manage its exposure to oil and gas price
volatility. Devon has also entered into interest rate swaps to
manage its exposure to interest rate volatility. The interest
rate swaps mitigate either the effects of interest rate
fluctuations on interest expense for variable-rate debt
instruments, or the debt fair values for fixed-rate debt.

In accordance with the transition provisions of
SFAS No. 133,

Accounting for Derivative Instruments
and Certain Hedging Activities,

(“SFAS No. 133”) Devon recorded a net-of-tax
cumulative-effect-type adjustment of $37 million loss in
accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (“AOCI”)
to recognize the fair value of all derivatives that were
designated as cash-flow hedging instruments during 2001.
Additionally, Devon recorded a net-of-tax cumulative-effect-type
adjustment to net earnings of $49 million gain
($0.39 per basic share and $0.38 per diluted share)
related to the fair value of derivative instruments that did not
qualify as hedges. This gain related principally to the option
embedded in Devon’s debentures that are exchangeable into
shares of ChevronTexaco common stock.

All derivatives are recognized as fair value of
financial instruments on the consolidated balance sheets at
their fair value. A substantial portion of Devon’s
derivatives consists of contracts that hedge the price of future
oil and natural gas production. These derivative contracts are
cash flow hedges that qualify for hedge accounting treatment
under SFAS No. 133. Therefore, while fair values of
such hedging instruments must be estimated as of the end of each
reporting period, the changes in the fair values are not
included in Devon’s consolidated results of operations.
Instead, the changes in fair value of these hedging instruments,
net of tax, are recorded directly to stockholders’ equity
until the hedged oil or natural gas quantities are produced. To
qualify for hedge accounting treatment, Devon designates its
cash flow hedge instruments as such on the date the derivative
contract is entered into or the date of a business combination
which includes cash flow hedge instruments. Additionally, Devon
documents all relationships between hedging instruments and
hedged items, as well as its risk-management objective and
strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. Devon also
assesses, both at the hedge’s inception and on an ongoing
basis, whether the derivatives that are used in hedging
transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in cash
flows of hedged items. If Devon fails to meet the requirements
for using hedge accounting treatment, the changes in fair value
of these hedging instruments would not be recorded directly to
equity but in the consolidated results of operations. During
2003, 2002 and 2001, there were no gains or losses reclassified
into earnings as a result of the discontinuance of hedge
accounting treatment for any of Devon’s derivatives.

By using derivative instruments to hedge
exposures to changes in commodity prices and interest rates,
Devon exposes itself to credit risk and market risk. Credit risk
is the failure of the counterparty to perform under the terms of
the derivative contract. To mitigate this risk, the hedging
instruments are placed with counterparties that Devon believes
are minimal credit risks. It is Devon’s policy to only
enter into derivative contracts with investment grade rated
counterparties deemed by management to be competent and
competitive market makers.



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Market risk is the change in the value of a
derivative instrument that results from a change in commodity
prices or interest rates. The market risk associated with
commodity price and interest rate contracts is managed by
establishing and monitoring parameters that limit the types and
degree of market risk that may be undertaken. The oil and gas
reference prices upon which the commodity hedging instruments
are based reflect various market indices that have a high degree
of historical correlation with actual prices received by Devon.

Devon does not hold or issue derivative
instruments for speculative trading purposes. Devon’s
commodity costless price collars and price swaps have been
designated as cash flow hedges. Changes in the fair value of
these derivatives are reported on the balance sheet in AOCI.
These amounts are reclassified to oil and gas sales when the
forecasted transaction takes place.

During 2003, 2002 and 2001, Devon recorded in its
statement of operations a gain of $1 million, a gain of
$28 million and a loss of $2 million, respectively,
for the change in the fair value of derivative instruments that
do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment, as well as the
ineffectiveness of derivatives that do qualify as hedges.

As of December 31, 2003, $150 million
of net deferred losses on derivative instruments accumulated in
AOCI are expected to be reclassified to earnings during the next
12 months assuming no change in the December 31, 2003
commodity prices. Transactions and events expected to occur over
the next 12 months that will necessitate reclassifying
these derivatives’ losses to earnings are primarily the
production and sale of oil and gas which includes the production
hedged under the various derivative instruments. Presently, the
maximum term over which Devon has hedged exposures to the
variability of cash flows for commodity price risk is
24 months.

Stock Options

Devon applies the intrinsic value-based method of
accounting prescribed by Accounting Principles Board Opinion
No. 25,

Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,

and related interpretations, in accounting for its fixed plan
stock options. As such, compensation expense is recorded on the
date of grant only if the current market price of the underlying
stock exceeded the exercise price. SFAS No. 123,

Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,

established
accounting and disclosure requirements using a fair value-based
method of accounting for stock-based employee compensation
plans. As allowed by SFAS No. 123, Devon has elected
to continue to apply the intrinsic value-based method of
accounting described above, and has adopted the disclosure
requirements of SFAS No. 123.



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Had Devon elected the fair value provisions of
SFAS No. 123 and recognized compensation expense over
the vesting period based on the fair value of the stock options
granted as of their grant date, Devon’s 2003, 2002 and 2001
pro forma net earnings and pro forma net earnings per share
would have differed from the amounts actually reported as shown
in the following table.

Income Taxes

Devon accounts for income taxes using the asset
and liability method, whereby deferred tax assets and
liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences
attributable to differences between the financial statement
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their respective
tax bases, as well as the future tax consequences attributable
to the future utilization of existing tax net operating loss and
other types of carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and
liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to
apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary
differences and carryforwards are expected to be recovered or
settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a
change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that
includes the enactment date. U.S. deferred income taxes
have not been provided on undistributed earnings of foreign
operations which are being permanently reinvested.

General and Administrative
    Expenses

General and administrative expenses are reported
net of amounts reimbursed by working interest owners of the oil
and gas properties operated by Devon and net of amounts
capitalized pursuant to the full cost method of accounting.

Net Earnings Per Common Share

Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing
income available to common stockholders by the weighted average
number of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted
earnings per share reflects the potential dilution that could
occur if Devon’s dilutive outstanding stock options were
exercised (calculated using the treasury stock method), if the
preferred stock of a subsidiary were converted to common stock
and if Devon’s zero coupon convertible senior debentures
were converted to common stock.



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The following table reconciles the net earnings
and common shares outstanding used in the calculations of basic
and diluted earnings per share for 2003, 2002 and 2001.

The senior convertible debentures included in the
2003 dilution calculations were not included in the 2002 and
2001 dilution calculations because the inclusion was
anti-dilutive.

Certain options to purchase shares of
Devon’s common stock have been excluded from the dilution
calculations because the options’ exercise price exceeded
the average market price of Devon’s common stock during the
applicable year. The following information relates to these
options.

The excluded options for 2003 expire between
January 12, 2004 and September 9, 2012.



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Foreign Currency Translation
    Adjustments

The assets and liabilities of certain foreign
subsidiaries are prepared in their respective local currencies
and translated into U.S. dollars based on the current
exchange rate in effect at the balance sheet dates, while income
and expenses are translated at average rates for the periods
presented. Translation adjustments have no effect on net income
and are included in AOCI.

Statements of Cash Flows

For purposes of the consolidated statements of
cash flows, Devon considers all highly liquid investments with
original maturities of three months or less to be cash
equivalents.

Commitments and Contingencies

Liabilities for loss contingencies arising from
claims, assessments, litigation or other sources are recorded
when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the
amount can be reasonably estimated.

Environmental expenditures are expensed or
capitalized in accordance with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America. Liabilities for these
expenditures are recorded when it is probable that obligations
have been incurred and the amounts can be reasonably estimated.
Reference is made to Note 14 for a discussion of amounts
recorded for these liabilities.

Impact of Recently Issued Accounting
    Standards Not Yet Adopted

In December 2003, the FASB issued FASB
Interpretation No. 46 (revised December 2003),

Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities,

(“FIN 46R”) which addresses how a business
enterprise should evaluate whether it has a controlling
financial interest in an entity through means other than voting
rights and accordingly should consolidate the entity.
FIN 46R replaces FASB Interpretation No. 46,

Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities,

which was
issued in January 2003. Devon will be required to apply
FIN 46R to variable interests in variable interest entities
(“VIEs”) created after December 31, 2003. For
variable interests in VIEs created before January 1, 2004,
FIN 46R will be applied beginning on January 1, 2005.
For any VIEs that must be consolidated under FIN 46R that
were created before January 1, 2004, the assets,
liabilities and noncontrolling interests of the VIE initially
would be measured at their carrying amounts with any difference
between the net amount added to the consolidated balance sheet
and any previously recognized interest being recognized as the
cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle. If
determining the carrying amounts is not practicable, fair value
at the date FIN 46R first applies may be used to measure
the assets, liabilities and noncontrolling interest of the VIE.
Devon owns no interests in variable interest entities;
therefore, FIN 46R will not affect Devon’s
consolidated financial statements.

SFAS Statement No. 150,

Accounting for
Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of both
Liabilities and Equity,

(“SFAS No. 150”)
was issued in May 2003. SFAS No. 150 establishes
standards for the classification and measurement of certain
financial instruments with characteristics of both liabilities
and equity. SFAS No. 150 also includes required
disclosures for financial instruments within its scope.
SFAS No. 150 was effective for instruments entered
into or modified after May 31, 2003 and otherwise will be
effective as of January 1, 2004, except for mandatorily
redeemable financial instruments. For certain mandatorily
redeemable financial instruments, SFAS No. 150 will be
effective on January 1, 2005. The effective date has been
deferred indefinitely for certain other types of mandatorily
redeemable financial instruments. Devon currently does not have
any financial instruments that are within the scope of
SFAS No. 150.



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

2.

Business Combinations and Pro Forma
    Information

Ocean Energy, Inc.

On April 25, 2003, Devon completed its
merger with Ocean Energy, Inc. (“Ocean”). In the
transaction, Devon issued 0.414 shares of its common stock
for each outstanding share of Ocean common stock (or a total of
approximately 74 million shares). Also, Devon assumed
approximately $1.8 billion of debt (current and long-term)
from Ocean.

Devon acquired Ocean primarily for the
significant production, development projects and exploration
prospects in both the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and
internationally, and the additional producing assets onshore in
the United States and in the shallower shelf regions of the Gulf
of Mexico.

The calculation of the purchase price and the
preliminary allocation to assets and liabilities as of
April 25, 2003, are shown below. The purchase price
allocation is preliminary because certain items such as the
determination of the final tax bases and the fair value of
certain assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date have
not been completed.



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Mitchell Energy & Development
    Corp.

On January 24, 2002, Devon completed its
merger with Mitchell Energy & Development Corp.
(“Mitchell”). Under the terms of this merger, Devon
issued approximately 30 million shares of Devon common
stock and paid $1.6 billion in cash to the Mitchell
stockholders. The cash portion of the acquisition was funded
from borrowings under a $3.0 billion senior unsecured term
loan credit facility (see Note 8).

Devon acquired Mitchell primarily for the
significant development and exploitation projects in each of
Mitchell’s core areas, increased marketing and midstream
operations and increased exposure to the North American natural
gas market.

The calculation of the purchase price and the
allocation to assets and liabilities as of January 24,
2002, are shown below.



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Pro Forma Information

Set forth in the following table is certain
unaudited pro forma financial information for the years ended
December 31, 2003 and 2002. The information has been
prepared assuming the Ocean and Mitchell mergers were
consummated on January 1, 2002. All pro forma information
is based on estimates and assumptions deemed appropriate by
Devon. The pro forma information is presented for illustrative
purposes only. If the transactions had occurred in the past,
Devon’s operating results might have been different from
those presented in the following table. The pro forma
information should not be relied upon as an indication of the
operating results that Devon would have achieved if the
transactions had occurred on January 1, 2002. The pro forma
information also should not be used as an indication of the
future results that Devon will achieve after the transactions.



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

3.

Comprehensive Income or Loss

Devon’s comprehensive income or loss
information is included in the accompanying consolidated
statements of stockholders’ equity and comprehensive income
(loss). A summary of accumulated other comprehensive income or
loss as of December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, and changes
during each of the years then ended, is presented in the
following table.

The 2002 activity for unrealized gain (loss) on
marketable securities includes additional unrealized losses of
$164 million ($103 million net of taxes), offset by
the recognition of a $205 million loss ($128 million
net of taxes) in the statement of operations during 2002. The
recognized loss was due to the impairment of the ChevronTexaco
common stock owned by Devon.

4.

Supplemental Cash Flow Information

Cash payments (refunds) for interest and
income taxes in 2003, 2002 and 2001 are presented below:



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The 2003 Ocean merger, 2002 Mitchell merger and
the 2001 acquisition of Anderson Exploration Ltd. involved
non-cash consideration as presented below:

5.

Accounts Receivable

The components of accounts receivable included
the following:



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

6.

Property and Equipment and Asset Retirement
    Obligations

Property and equipment included the following:

The costs not subject to amortization relate to
unproved properties which are excluded from amortized capital
costs until it is determined whether or not proved reserves can
be assigned to such properties. The excluded properties are
assessed for impairment at least annually. Subject to industry
conditions, evaluation of most of these properties, and the
inclusion of their costs in the amortized capital costs is
expected to be completed within five years.

Depreciation, depletion and amortization of
property and equipment consisted of the following components:



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

As described in Note 1, effective
January 1, 2003, Devon adopted SFAS No. 143 and
began recording asset retirement obligations for estimated
property and equipment dismantlement, abandonment and
restoration costs when the legal obligation is incurred. In
accordance with SFAS No. 143, oil and gas properties
subject to amortization and other property and equipment listed
above include asset retirement costs associated with these asset
retirement obligations. Following is a reconciliation of the
asset retirement obligation from December 31, 2002 to
December 31, 2003.

7.

Investment in ChevronTexaco Corporation Common
    Stock

In the fourth quarter of 2002, Devon recorded a
$205 million other-than-temporary impairment of its
investment in shares of ChevronTexaco common stock. Devon
acquired these shares in its August 1999 acquisition of
PennzEnergy Company. The shares are deposited with an exchange
agent for possible exchange for $760 million of debentures
that are exchangeable into the ChevronTexaco shares. The
debentures, which mature in August 2008, were also assumed by
Devon in the 1999 PennzEnergy acquisition.

At the closing date of the PennzEnergy
acquisition, Devon initially recorded the ChevronTexaco common
shares at their fair value, which was $95.38 per share, or
an aggregate value of $677 million. Since then, as the
ChevronTexaco shares have fluctuated in market value, the value
of the shares on Devon’s balance sheet has been adjusted to
the applicable market value. Through September 30, 2002,
any decreases in the value of the ChevronTexaco common shares
were determined by Devon to be temporary in nature. Therefore,
the changes in value were recorded directly to
stockholders’ equity and were not recorded in Devon’s
results of operations through September 30, 2002.

The determination that a decline in value of the
ChevronTexaco shares is temporary or other than temporary is
subjective and influenced by many factors. Among these factors
are the significance of the decline as a percentage of the
original cost, the length of time the stock price has been below
original cost, the performance of the stock price in relation to
the stock price of its competitors within the industry and the
market in general, and whether the decline is attributable to
specific adverse conditions affecting ChevronTexaco.

Beginning in July 2002, the market value of
ChevronTexaco common stock began a significant decline. The
price per share decreased from $88.50 at June 30, 2002, to
$69.25 per share at September 30, 2002, and to
$66.48 per share at December 31, 2002. The year-end
price of $66.48 represented a 25% decline since June 30,
2002, and a 30% decline from the original valuation in August
1999. As a result of the decline in value during the fourth
quarter of 2002, Devon determined that the decline was other than



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

temporary, as that term is defined by accounting
rules. Therefore, the $205 million cumulative decrease in
the value of the ChevronTexaco common shares from the initial
acquisition in August 1999 to December 31, 2002, was
recorded as a noncash charge to Devon’s results of
operations in the fourth quarter of 2002. Net of the applicable
tax benefit, the charge reduced net earnings by
$128 million.

During 2003, the share price of ChevronTexaco
common stock has increased to $86.39 at December 31, 2003.
As a result, the market value of Devon’s investment in
ChevronTexaco common stock increased $141 million from
December 31, 2002 to December 31, 2003. The changes in
the value of the shares since December 31, 2002, net of
applicable taxes, have been recorded directly to
stockholders’ equity. However, depending on the future
performance of ChevronTexaco’s common stock, Devon may be
required to record additional noncash charges in future periods
if the value of such stock declines, and Devon determines that
such declines are other than temporary.

8.

Long-Term Debt and Related Expenses

A summary of Devon’s long-term debt is as
follows:



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Maturities of long-term debt as of
December 31, 2003, excluding the $1 million of net
discounts and the $27 million fair value adjustment, are as
follows (in millions):

Credit Facilities with Banks

Devon has $1 billion of unsecured long-term
credit facilities (the “Credit Facilities”). The
Credit Facilities include a U.S. facility of
$725 million (the “U.S. Facility”) and a
Canadian facility of $275 million (the “Canadian
Facility”). The $725 million U.S. Facility
consists of a Tranche A facility of $200 million and a
Tranche B facility of $525 million.

The Tranche A facility matures on
October 15, 2004. Devon may borrow funds under the
Tranche B facility until June 2, 2004 (the
“Tranche B Revolving Period”). Devon may request
that the Tranche B Revolving Period be extended an
additional 364 days by notifying the agent bank of such
request between 30 and 60 days prior to the end of the
Tranche B Revolving Period. On June 2, 2004, at the
end of the Tranche B Revolving Period, Devon may convert
the then outstanding balance under the Tranche B facility
to a one-year term loan by paying the Agent a fee of
25 basis points. The applicable borrowing rate would be at
LIBOR plus 112.5 basis points. On December 31, 2003
and 2002, there were no borrowings outstanding under the
$725 million U.S. Facility. The available capacity
under the U.S. Facility as of December 31, 2003, net
of outstanding letters of credit, was approximately
$586 million.

Devon may borrow funds under the
$275 million Canadian Facility until June 2, 2004 (the
“Canadian Facility Revolving Period”). Devon may
request that the Canadian Facility Revolving Period be extended
an additional 364 days by notifying the agent bank of such
request between 30 and 60 days prior to the end of the
Canadian Facility Revolving Period. Debt outstanding as of the
end of the Canadian Facility



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Revolving Period is payable in semiannual
installments of 2.5% each for the following five years, with the
final installment due five years and one day following the end
of the Canadian Facility Revolving Period. On December 31,
2003 and 2002, there were no borrowings under the
$275 million Canadian facility. The available capacity
under the Canadian Facility as of December 31, 2003, net of
outstanding letters of credit, was approximately
$214 million.

Under the terms of the Credit Facilities, Devon
has the right to reallocate up to $100 million of the
unused Tranche B facility maximum credit amount to the
Canadian Facility. Conversely, Devon also has the right to
reallocate up to $100 million of unused Canadian Facility
maximum credit amount to the Tranche B Facility.

Amounts borrowed under the Credit Facilities bear
interest at various fixed rate options that Devon may elect for
periods up to six months. Such rates are generally less than the
prime rate. Devon may also elect to borrow at the prime rate.
The Credit Facilities provide for an annual facility fee of
$1.4 million that is payable quarterly in arrears.

The agreements governing the Credit Facilities
contain certain covenants and restrictions, including a maximum
debt-to-capitalization ratio. At December 31, 2003, Devon
was in compliance with such covenants and restrictions.

Commercial Paper

On August 29, 2000, Devon entered into a
commercial paper program. Devon may borrow up to
$725 million under the commercial paper program. Total
borrowings under the U.S. Facility and the commercial paper
program may not exceed $725 million. The commercial paper
borrowings may have terms of up to 365 days and bear
interest at rates agreed to at the time of the borrowing. The
interest rate is based on a standard index such as the Federal
Funds Rate, London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR), or the money
market rate as found on the commercial paper market. As of
December 31, 2003 and 2002, Devon had no commercial paper
debt outstanding.

$3 Billion Term Loan Credit
    Facility

On October 12, 2001, Devon and its wholly
owned financing subsidiary Devon Financing Corporation, U.L.C.
(“Devon Financing”) entered into a new $3 billion
senior unsecured term loan credit facility. The facility has a
term of five years. Interest on borrowings under this facility
may be based, at the borrower’s option, on LIBOR or on UBS
Warburg LLC’s base rate (which is the higher of UBS
Warburg’s prime commercial lending rate and the weighted
average of rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with
members of the Federal Reserve System plus 0.50%).

This $3 billion facility includes various
rate options which can be elected by Devon, including a rate
based on LIBOR plus a margin. The margin is based on
Devon’s debt rating. Based on Devon’s current debt
rating, the margin is 100 basis points. As of
December 31, 2003 and 2002, the average interest rate on
this facility was 2.2% and 2.5%, respectively.

This $3 billion facility was fully borrowed
upon the closing of the Mitchell merger on January 24,
2002. As of December 31, 2003 and 2002, the remaining
balance outstanding was $0.6 billion and $1.1 billion,
respectively. The primary sources of the repayments were the
issuance of $1.5 billion of debt securities, of which
$1.3 billion was used to pay down the credit facility with
the remainder used to pay down other debt, and $1.4 billion
from the sale of certain oil and gas properties, of which
$1.1 billion was used to pay down the credit facility. The
terms of this facility require repayment of the remaining debt
balance at maturity in October 2006. This credit facility
contains certain covenants and restrictions, including a maximum
allowed debt-to-capitalization ratio as defined in the credit
facility. At December 31, 2003, Devon was in compliance
with such covenants and restrictions.



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Exchangeable Debentures

The exchangeable debentures consist of
$444 million of 4.90% debentures and $316 million
of 4.95% debentures. The exchangeable debentures were
issued on August 3, 1998 and mature August 15, 2008.
The exchangeable debentures were callable beginning
August 15, 2000, initially at 104.0% of principal and at
prices declining to 100.5% of principal on or after
August 15, 2007. The exchangeable debentures are
exchangeable at the option of the holders at any time prior to
maturity, unless previously redeemed, for shares of
ChevronTexaco common stock. In lieu of delivering ChevronTexaco
common stock to an exchanging debenture holder, Devon may, at
its option, pay to such holder an amount of cash equal to the
market value of the ChevronTexaco common stock. At maturity,
holders who have not exercised their exchange rights will
receive an amount in cash equal to the principal amount of the
debentures.

As of December 31, 2003, Devon beneficially
owned approximately 7.1 million shares of ChevronTexaco
common stock. These shares have been deposited with an exchange
agent for possible exchange for the exchangeable debentures.
Each $1,000 principal amount of the exchangeable debentures is
exchangeable into 9.3283 shares of ChevronTexaco common
stock, an exchange rate equivalent to $107.20 per share of
ChevronTexaco stock.

The exchangeable debentures were assumed as part
of the PennzEnergy merger. The fair values of the exchangeable
debentures were determined as of August 17, 1999, based on
market quotations. Under SFAS No. 133, the total fair
value of the debentures has been allocated between the
interest-bearing debt and the option to exchange ChevronTexaco
common stock that is embedded in the debentures. Accordingly, a
discount was recorded on the debentures and is being accreted
using the effective interest method which raised the effective
interest rate on the debentures to 7.76%.

Zero Coupon Convertible
    Debentures

In June 2000, Devon privately sold zero coupon
convertible senior debentures. The debentures were sold at a
price of $464.13 per debenture with a yield to maturity of
3.875% per annum. Each of the 760,000 debentures is
convertible into 5.7593 shares of Devon common stock. Devon
may call the debentures at any time after five years, and a
debenture holder has the right to require Devon to repurchase
the debentures after five, 10 and 15 years, at the issue
price plus accrued original issue discount and interest. The
first put date is June 26, 2005, at an accreted value of
$427 million. Devon has the right to satisfy its obligation
by paying cash or issuing shares of Devon common stock with a
value equal to its obligation. Devon’s proceeds were
approximately $346 million, net of debt issuance costs of
approximately $7 million. Devon used the proceeds from the
sale of these debentures to pay down other domestic long-term
debt.

Other Debentures and Notes

Following are descriptions of the various other
debentures and notes listed in the table presented at the
beginning of this note.

6.75% Senior Notes due February 15,

Devon assumed these senior notes in connection
with the Mitchell merger,. The fair value of these senior notes
approximated the face value. As a result, no premium or discount
was recorded on these senior notes.



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

8.05% Notes due June 15,

In June 1999, Devon issued these notes for
98.758% of face value and Devon received total proceeds of
$122 million after deducting related costs and expenses of
$2 million. The notes are general unsecured obligations of
Devon.

Ocean Debt

In connection with the Ocean merger, Devon
assumed $1.8 billion of debt. The table below summarizes
the debt assumed, the fair value of the debt at April 25,
2003, and the effective interest rate. The premiums and
discounts are being amortized or accreted using the effective
interest method. All of the notes are general unsecured
obligations of Devon.

Change of control provisions required the
outstanding borrowings under the credit facility and note
payable to be fully paid immediately. Additionally, Devon was
required to extend purchase offers for certain senior notes and
the senior subordinated notes. As a result of these purchase
offers, which expired on June 13, 2003, Devon paid
$118 million for the aggregate principal amount tendered.
The purchase price for each offer was 101 percent of the
principal amount of the notes tendered plus accrued and unpaid
interest to and including the purchase date. All notes that were
not tendered remain outstanding except as described below.

Included in the $118 million of debt retired
pursuant to the purchase offer were $13 million of the
8.375% notes and $57 million of the 7.875% notes.
The remaining $195 million of 8.375% notes were called
and redeemed on July 1, 2003. Additionally, the remaining
$43 million of 7.875% senior notes were paid
August 1, 2003, when they were due.

Anderson Debt

In connection with the Anderson acquisition,
Devon assumed $702 million of senior notes. The table below
summarizes the debt assumed which remains outstanding, the fair
value of the debt at October 15, 2001, and the effective
interest rate of the debt assumed after determining the fair
values of the respective



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

notes using October 15, 2001, market
interest rates. The premiums and discounts are being amortized
or accreted using the effective interest method. All of the
notes are general unsecured obligations of Devon.

2.75% Notes due August 1,

On August 4, 2003, Devon issued these notes
which are unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of Devon. The
proceeds from the issuance of these debt securities, net of
discounts and issuance costs, of $498 million were used to
repay amounts outstanding under the $3 billion term loan
credit facility.

10.25% Debentures due November 1,
    2005 and 10.125% Debentures due November 15,

These debentures were assumed as part of the
PennzEnergy acquisition. The fair values of the respective
debentures were determined using August 17, 1999, market
interest rates. As a result, premiums were recorded on these
debentures which lowered their effective interest rates to 8.3%
and 8.9% on the $236 million of 10.25% debentures and
$177 million of 10.125% debentures, respectively. The
premiums are being amortized using the effective interest method.

6.875% Notes due September 30, 2011
    and 7.875% Debentures due September 30, 2031

On October 3, 2001, Devon, through Devon
Financing, sold these notes and debentures which are unsecured
and unsubordinated obligations of Devon Financing. Devon has
fully and unconditionally guaranteed on an unsecured and
unsubordinated basis the obligations of Devon Financing under
the debt securities. The proceeds from the issuance of these
debt securities were used to fund a portion of the Anderson
acquisition. The $3 billion of debt securities were
structured in a manner that results in an expected weighted
average after-tax borrowing rate of approximately 1.65%.

7.95% Notes due April 15,

On March 25, 2002, Devon sold these notes
which are unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of Devon. The
net proceeds received, after discounts and issuance costs, were
$986 million and were partially used to pay down
$820 million on Devon’s $3 billion term loan
credit facility. The remaining $166 million of net proceeds
was used in June 2002 to partially fund the early extinguishment
of $175 million of 8.75% senior subordinated notes due
June 15, 2007. The notes were redeemed at 104.375% of
principal, or approximately $183 million.



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Interest Expense

Following are the components of interest expense
for the years 2003, 2002 and 2001:

Effects of Changes in Foreign Currency
    Exchange Rates

The $400 million of 6.75% fixed-rate senior
notes referred to in the first table of this note are payable by
a Canadian subsidiary of Devon. However, the notes are
denominated in U.S. dollars. Changes in the exchange rate
between the U.S. dollar and the Canadian dollar from the
dates the notes were assumed as part of an acquisition to the
date of repayment increase or decrease the expected amount of
Canadian dollars eventually required to repay the notes. Such
changes in the Canadian dollar equivalent of the debt and
certain cash and other working capital amounts of Devon’s
Canadian subsidiary which are also denominated in
U.S. dollars are required to be included in determining net
earnings for the period in which the exchange rate changed. As a
result of changes in the rate of conversion of Canadian dollars
to U.S. dollars, $69 million and $1 million was
recorded as a reduction of expense in 2003 and 2002,
respectively, and $11 million was recorded as in increase
of expense in 2001.

9.

Income Taxes

At December 31, 2003, Devon had the
following carryforwards available to reduce future income taxes:

All of the carryforward amounts shown above have
been utilized for financial purposes to reduce the deferred tax
liability.



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The earnings (loss) before income taxes and the
components of income tax expense (benefit) for the years 2003,
2002 and 2001 were as follows:

The taxes on the results of discontinued
operations presented in the accompanying statements of
operations were all related to foreign operations.

Total income tax expense (benefit) differed from
the amounts computed by applying the U.S. federal income
tax rate to earnings (loss) from continuing operations before
income taxes and cumulative effect of change in accounting
principle as a result of the following:



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

During 2003, the Canadian government enacted a
statutory tax rate reduction that will be phased in through
2007. As presented in the table above, this rate reduction
resulted in a $218 million benefit being recorded in 2003
related to the lower tax rates being applied to deferred tax
liabilities outstanding as of December 31, 2002.

The tax effects of temporary differences that
gave rise to significant portions of the deferred tax assets and
liabilities at December 31, 2003 and 2002 are presented
below:

As shown in the above table, Devon has recognized
$1.0 billion of deferred tax assets as of December 31,
2003. Such amount consists of $416 million of various
carryforwards available to offset future income taxes. The
carryforwards include federal net operating loss carryforwards,
the majority of which do not begin to expire until 2014, state
net operating loss carryforwards which expire primarily between
2004 and 2022, Canadian carryforwards which expire primarily
between 2005 and 2009, Azerbaijani carryforwards which have no
expiration, Chinese carryforwards which expire primarily between
2004 and 2008 and minimum tax credit carryforwards which have no
expiration. The tax benefits of carryforwards are recorded as an
asset to the extent that management assesses the utilization of
such carryforwards to be “more likely than not.” When
the future utilization of some portion of the carryforwards is
determined not to be “more likely than not,” a
valuation allowance is provided to reduce the recorded tax
benefits from such assets.

Devon expects the tax benefits from the net
operating loss carryforwards to be utilized between 2004 and
2009. Such expectation is based upon current estimates of
taxable income during this period, considering limitations on
the annual utilization of these benefits as set forth by tax
regulations. Significant changes in such estimates caused by
variables such as future oil and gas prices or capital
expenditures could alter the timing of the eventual utilization
of such carryforwards. There can be no assurance that Devon will
generate any specific level of continuing taxable earnings.
However, management believes that



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Devon’s future taxable income will more
likely than not be sufficient to utilize substantially all its
tax carryforwards prior to their expiration.

10.

Preferred Stock of a Subsidiary

At December 31, 2003, a subsidiary of Devon
created in the Ocean merger had 38,000 shares of
convertible preferred stock. In January 2004, these shares of
convertible preferred stock were canceled and converted to
1,098,580 shares of Devon common stock pursuant to an
automatic conversion feature of the preferred stock. The
automatic conversion feature was triggered when the closing
price of Devon common stock equaled or exceeded the forced
conversion price of $52.39 for 20 consecutive trading days.

11.

Stockholders’ Equity

The authorized capital stock of Devon consists of
800 million shares of common stock, par value $.10 per
share (the “Common Stock”), and 4.5 million
shares of preferred stock, par value $1.00 per share. The
preferred stock may be issued in one or more series, and the
terms and rights of such stock will be determined by the Board
of Directors.

There were 16 million exchangeable shares
issued on December 10, 1998, in connection with the
Northstar Energy Corporation combination. As of year-end 2003,
15 million of the exchangeable shares had been exchanged
for shares of Devon’s common stock. The exchangeable shares
have rights identical to those of Devon’s common stock and
are exchangeable at any time into Devon’s common stock on a
one-for-one basis.

Effective August 17, 1999, Devon issued
1.5 million shares of 6.49% cumulative preferred stock,
Series A, to holders of PennzEnergy 6.49% cumulative
preferred stock, Series A. Dividends on the preferred stock
are cumulative from the date of original issue and are payable
quarterly, in cash, when declared by the Board of Directors. The
preferred stock is redeemable at the option of Devon at any time
on or after June 2, 2008, in whole or in part, at a
redemption price of $100 per share, plus accrued and unpaid
dividends to the redemption date.

Devon’s Board of Directors has designated a
certain number of shares of the preferred stock as Series A
Junior Participating Preferred Stock (the “Series A
Junior Preferred Stock”) in connection with the adoption of
the shareholder rights plan described later in this note.
Effective January 22, 2002, the Board voted to increase the
designated shares from one million to two million. At
December 31, 2003, there were no shares of Series A
Junior Preferred Stock issued or outstanding. The Series A
Junior Preferred Stock is entitled to receive cumulative
quarterly dividends per share equal to the greater of $10 or 100
times the aggregate per share amount of all dividends (other
than stock dividends) declared on Common Stock since the
immediately preceding quarterly dividend payment date or, with
respect to the first payment date, since the first issuance of
Series A Junior Preferred Stock. Holders of the
Series A Junior Preferred Stock are entitled to 100 votes
per share (subject to adjustment to prevent dilution) on all
matters submitted to a vote of the stockholders. The
Series A Junior Preferred Stock is neither redeemable nor
convertible. The Series A Junior Preferred Stock ranks
prior to the Common Stock but junior to all other classes of
Preferred Stock.

Stock Option Plans

Devon has outstanding stock options issued to key
management and professional employees under three stock option
plans adopted in 1993, 1997 and 2003 (the “1993 Plan,”
the “1997 Plan” and the “2003 Plan”).
Options granted under the 1993 Plan and 1997 Plan remain
exercisable by the employees owning such options, but no new
options will be granted under these plans. At December 31,
2003, there were 225,000 and 6,382,000 options outstanding under
the 1993 Plan and the 1997 Plan, respectively.



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

On April 25, 2003, Devon’s stockholders
adopted the 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan. The new long-term
incentive plan authorizes the compensation committee of
Devon’s board of directors to grant nonqualified and
incentive stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted
stock awards, performance units and performance bonuses to
selected employees. The plan also authorizes the grant of
nonqualified stock options and restricted stock awards to
directors. A total of 12,500,000 shares of Devon common
stock have been reserved for issuance pursuant to the plan. Of
these shares, no more than 2,500,000 shares may be granted
as restricted stock, performance bonuses and performance units.
During 2003, 653,000 restricted stock awards were granted which
are subject to pro rata vesting over a four-year period. These
awards had an aggregate fair value of $34 million and will
be recorded as compensation expense over the vesting period.

The exercise price of stock options granted under
the 2003 Plan may not be less than the estimated fair market
value of the stock at the date of grant. Options granted are
exercisable during a period established for each grant, which
period may not exceed 8 years from the date of grant. Under
the 2003 Plan, the grantee must pay the exercise price in cash
or in common stock, or a combination thereof, at the time that
the option is exercised. The 2003 Plan is administered by a
committee comprised of non-management members of the Board of
Directors. The 2003 Plan expires on April 25, 2013. As of
December 31, 2003, there were 1,487,000 options outstanding
under the 2003 Plan. There were 10,360,000 options available for
future grants as of December 31, 2003.

In addition to the stock options outstanding
under the 1993 Plan, 1997 Plan and 2003 Plan there were
approximately 4,674,000, 1,123,000, 281,000 and 1,173,000 stock
options outstanding at the end of 2003 that were assumed as part
of the Ocean merger, the Mitchell merger, the Santa Fe
Snyder merger and the PennzEnergy merger, respectively.



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

A summary of the status of Devon’s stock
option plans as of December 31, 2001, 2002 and 2003, and
changes during each of the years then ended, is presented below.

The weighted average fair values of options
granted during 2003, 2002 and 2001 were $16.27, $15.25 and
$13.17, respectively. The fair value of each option grant was
estimated for disclosure purposes on the date of grant using the
Black-Scholes Option Pricing Model with the following
assumptions for 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively: risk-free
interest rates of 2.8%, 3.2% and 3.8%; dividend yields of 0.4%,
0.4% and 0.6%; expected lives of four, five and five years; and
volatility of the price of the underlying common stock of 37.9%,
41.8% and 42.2%.



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The following table summarizes information about
Devon’s stock options which were outstanding, and those
which were exercisable, as of December 31, 2003:

Shareholder Rights Plan

Under Devon’s shareholder rights plan,
stockholders have one right for each share of Common Stock held.
The rights become exercisable and separately transferable ten
business days after a) an announcement that a person has
acquired, or obtained the right to acquire, 15% or more of the
voting shares outstanding, or b) commencement of a tender
or exchange offer that could result in a person owning 15% or
more of the voting shares outstanding.

Each right entitles its holder (except a holder
who is the acquiring person) to purchase either (a) 1/100
of a share of Series A Preferred Stock for $75.00, subject
to adjustment or, (b) Devon Common Stock with a value equal
to twice the exercise price of the right, subject to adjustment
to prevent dilution. In the event of certain merger or asset
sale transactions with another party or transactions which would
increase the equity ownership of a shareholder who then owned
15% or more of Devon, each Devon right will entitle its holder
to purchase securities of the merging or acquiring party with a
value equal to twice the exercise price of the right.

The rights, which have no voting power, expire on
April 16, 2005. The rights may be redeemed by Devon for
$.01 per right until the rights become exercisable.

Dividends

Dividends on Devon’s common stock were paid
in 2003, 2002 and 2001 at a per share rate of $0.05 per
quarter.



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

12.

Financial Instruments

The following table presents the carrying amounts
and estimated fair values of Devon’s financial instrument
assets (liabilities) at December 31, 2003 and 2002.

The following methods and assumptions were used
to estimate the fair values of the financial instruments in the
above table. The carrying values of cash and cash equivalents,
accounts receivable and accounts payable (including income taxes
payable and accrued expenses) included in the accompanying
consolidated balance sheets approximated fair value at
December 31, 2003 and 2002.

Investments

—
The fair values of investments are based on quoted market prices.

Oil and Gas Price Hedge
Agreements

— The fair values
of the oil and gas price hedges are based on either (a) an
internal discounted cash flow calculation, (b) quotes
obtained from the counterparty to the hedge agreement or
(c) quotes provided by brokers.

Interest Rate Swap
Agreements

— The fair values
of the interest rate swaps are based on quotes obtained from the
counterparty to the swap agreement.

Electricity Hedge
Agreements

— The fair values
of the electricity hedges are based on an internal discounted
cash flow calculation.

Foreign Exchange Hedge
Agreements

— The fair values
of the foreign exchange agreements are based on either
(a) an internal discounted cash flow calculation or
(b) quotes obtained from brokers.

Embedded Option in Exchangeable
Debentures

— The fair values
of the embedded options are based on quotes obtained from
brokers.

Long-term
Debt

— The fair values of
the fixed-rate long-term debt have been estimated based on
quotes obtained from brokers or by discounting the principal and
interest payments at rates available for debt of similar terms
and maturity. The fair values of the floating-rate long-term
debt are estimated to approximate the carrying amounts due to
the fact that the interest rates paid on such debt are generally
set for periods of three months or less.

Preferred Stock of a
Subsidiary

— The fair value
of the preferred stock is based upon quotes obtained from
brokers.



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Devon’s total hedged positions as of
December 31, 2003 are set forth in the following tables.

Price Swaps

Through various price swaps, Devon has fixed the
price it will receive on a portion of its oil and natural gas
production in 2004 and 2005. These swaps will result in the
fixed prices included below. Where necessary, the gas prices
related to these swaps have been adjusted for certain
transportation costs that are netted against the price recorded
by Devon, and the price has also been adjusted for the Btu
content of the gas production that has been hedged.

Oil Production

Gas Production

Costless Price Collars

Devon has also entered into costless price
collars that set a floor and ceiling price for a portion of its
2004 and 2005 oil production that otherwise are subject to
floating prices. The floor and ceiling prices related to
domestic and Canadian oil production are based on the NYMEX
price. The floor and ceiling prices related to international oil
production are based on the Brent price. If the NYMEX or Brent
price is outside of the ranges set by the floor and ceiling
prices in the various collars, Devon and the counterparty to the
collars will settle the difference. Any such settlements will
either increase or decrease Devon’s oil revenues for the
period. Because Devon’s oil volumes are often sold at
prices that differ from the NYMEX or Brent price due to
differing quality (i.e., sweet crude versus sour crude) and
transportation costs from different geographic areas, the floor
and ceiling prices of the various collars do not reflect actual
limits of Devon’s realized prices for the production
volumes related to the collars.

Devon has also entered into costless price
collars that set a floor and ceiling price for a portion of its
2004 and 2005 natural gas production that otherwise is subject
to floating prices. If the applicable monthly price indices are
outside of the ranges set by the floor and ceiling prices in the
various collars, Devon and the counterparty to the collars will
settle the difference. Any such settlements will either increase
or decrease Devon’s gas revenues for the period. Because
Devon’s gas volumes are often sold at prices that differ
from the related regional indices, and due to differing Btu
contents of gas produced, the floor and ceiling prices of the
various collars do not reflect actual limits of Devon’s
realized prices for the production volumes related to the
collars.



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

To simplify presentation, Devon’s costless
collars have been aggregated in the following table according to
similar floor prices and similar ceiling prices. The floor and
ceiling prices shown are weighted averages of the various
collars in each aggregated group.

The international oil prices shown in the
following tables have been adjusted to a NYMEX-based price,
using Devon’s estimates of future differentials between
NYMEX and the Brent price upon which the collars are based.

The natural gas prices shown in the following
tables have been adjusted to a NYMEX-based price, using
Devon’s estimates of future differentials between NYMEX and
the specific regional indices upon which the collars are based.
The floor and ceiling prices related to the domestic collars are
based on various regional first-of-the-month price indices as
published monthly by

Inside FERC.

The floor and ceiling
prices related to the Canadian collars are based on the AECO
index as published by the

Canadian Gas Price Reporter.

Oil Production

Gas Production

Interest Rate Swaps

Devon has also entered into a floating-to-fixed
interest rate swap and fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps.
Under the floating-to-fixed interest rate swap, Devon will
record a fixed rate of 6.4% on a notional amount of
$97 million in 2004 through 2006 and 6.3% on a notional
amount of $30 million in 2007. Following is a table
summarizing the fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps with the
related debt instrument and notional amounts.

13.

Retirement Plans

Devon has various non-contributory defined
benefit pension plans, including qualified plans
(“Qualified Plans”) and nonqualified plans
(“Supplemental Plans”). The Qualified Plans provide



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

retirement benefits for U.S. and Canadian
employees meeting certain age and service requirements. Benefits
for the Qualified Plans are based on the employee’s years
of service and compensation and are funded from assets held in
the plans’ trusts.

During 2002, Devon established a funding policy
regarding the Qualified Plans such that it would contribute the
amount of funds necessary so that the Qualified Plans’
assets would be approximately equal to the related accumulated
benefit obligation by the end of 2004. As of December 31,
2003, the Qualified Plans’ total accumulated benefit
obligation was $397 million, which was $22 million
more than the related assets. Devon’s intentions are to
fund this deficit during 2004. The actual amount of
contributions required during this period will depend on
investment returns from the plan assets during the same period
as well as changes in long-term interest rates.

The Supplemental Plans provide retirement
benefits for certain employees whose benefits under the
Qualified Plans are limited by income tax regulations. The
Supplemental Plans’ benefits are based on the
employee’s years of service and compensation. For certain
Supplemental Plans, Devon has established trusts to fund these
plans’ benefit obligations. The total values of these
trusts were $66 million and $53 million at
December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively, and are included
in noncurrent other assets in the consolidated balance sheets.
For the remaining Supplemental Plans for which trusts have not
been established, benefits are funded from Devon’s
available cash and cash equivalents.

Devon also has defined benefit postretirement
plans (“Postretirement Plans”) which provide benefits
for substantially all employees. The Postretirement Plans
provide medical and, in some cases, life insurance benefits and
are, depending on the type of plan, either contributory or
non-contributory. Benefit obligations for the Postretirement
Plans are estimated based on future cost-sharing changes that
are consistent with Devon’s expressed intent to increase,
where possible, contributions from future retirees. Devon’s
funding policy for the Postretirement Plans is to fund the
benefits as they become payable with available cash and cash
equivalents recorded in the consolidated balance sheet.



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Benefit Obligations

Devon uses a measurement date of December 31
for its pension and postretirement benefit plans. The following
table presents the plans’ benefit obligations and the
weighted-average actuarial assumptions used to calculate such
obligations at December 31, 2003 and 2002. The benefit
obligation for pension plans represents the projected benefit
obligation, while the benefit obligation for the postretirement
benefit plans represents the accumulated benefit obligation. The
accumulated benefit obligation differs from the projected
benefit obligation in that the former includes no assumption
about future compensation levels. The accumulated benefit
obligation for pension plans at December 31, 2003 and 2002
was $475 million and $424 million, respectively.

For measurement purposes, a 10% annual rate of
increase in the per capita cost of covered health care benefits
was assumed for 2004. The rate was assumed to decrease on a
pro-rata basis annually to 5% in the year 2008 and remain at
that level thereafter. A one-percentage-point increase in
assumed health care cost trend rates would increase the
December 31, 2003 postretirement benefit obligation by
$2 million, while a one-percentage-point decrease in the
same rate would decrease the postretirement benefit obligation
by $3 million.



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Plan Assets

The following table presents the plans’
assets at December 31, 2003 and 2002.

The plan assets for pension benefits in the table
above excludes the assets held in trusts for the Supplemental
Plans. However, employer contributions for pension benefits in
the table above include $22 million in 2003 and
$20 million in 2002 which were transferred from the trusts
established for the Supplemental Plans.

Devon’s overall investment objective for its
retirement plans’ assets is to achieve long-term growth of
invested capital to ensure payments of retirement benefits
obligations can be funded when required. To assist in achieving
this objective, Devon has established certain investment
strategies, including target allocation percentages and
permitted and prohibited investments, designed to mitigate risks
inherent with investing. At December 31, 2003, the target
investment allocation for Devon’s plan assets is 50%
U.S. large cap equity securities; 15% U.S. small cap
equity securities, equally allocated between growth and value;
15% international equity securities, equally allocated between
growth and value; and 20% debt securities. Derivatives or other
speculative investments considered high-risk are generally
prohibited.

The asset allocation for Devon’s retirement
plans at December 31, 2003 and 2002, and the target
allocation for 2004, by asset category, follows:



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Funded Status

The following table presents the funded status of
the plans and the net amounts recognized in the consolidated
balance sheets at December 31, 2003 and 2002.

During 2003, the change in the minimum pension
liability increased other comprehensive income by
$28 million. During 2002 and 2001, the changes in the
minimum pension liability decreased other comprehensive income
by $85 million and $28 million, respectively.

Certain of Devon’s pension and
postretirement plans have a projected benefit obligation in
excess of plan assets at December 31, 2003 and 2002. The
aggregate benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets for
these plans is included below.

Certain of Devon’s pension plans have an
accumulated benefit obligation in excess of plan assets at
December 31, 2003 and 2002. The aggregate accumulated
benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets for these plans
is included below.

The plan assets included in the tables above
exclude the Supplemental Plan trusts which had a total value of
$66 million and $53 million at December 31, 2003
and 2002, respectively.



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Net Periodic Cost

The following table presents the plans’ net
periodic benefit cost and the weighted-average actuarial
assumptions used to calculate such cost for the years ended
December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001.

The expected rate of return on plan assets was
determined by evaluating input from external consultants and
economists as well as long-term inflation assumptions. The
expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is based on the
target allocation of investment types in such assets.

Assumed health care cost trend rates have a
significant effect on the amounts reported for the other
postretirement benefit plans. A one-percentage-point change in
the assumed health care cost trend rates would affect the total
service and interest cost by less than $1 million.

In December 2003, the

Medicare Prescription
Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003

was signed
into law. Among other things, this new law expands Medicare to
include a prescription drug benefit beginning in 2006. While
this law is expected to decrease the obligation of the other
postretirement benefit plans, this decrease is not reflected in
either the benefit obligation or net periodic benefit cost
amounts above. Recognition is being deferred until further
guidance on accounting for the effects of the new law is issued.



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Expected Cash Flows

Information about the expected cash flows for the
pension and other postretirement benefit plans follows:

Expected employer contributions included in the
table above include amounts related to Devon’s Qualified
Plans, Supplemental Plans and Postretirement Plans. Of the
benefits expected to be paid in 2004, $7 million is
expected to be funded from the trusts established for the
Supplemental Plans and $8 million is expected to be funded
from Devon’s available cash and cash equivalents. Expected
employer contributions and benefit payments for other
postretirement benefits are presented net of employee
contributions.

Other Benefit Plans

Devon has incurred certain postemployment
benefits to former or inactive employees who are not retirees.
These benefits include salary continuance, severance and
disability health care and life insurance. The accrued
postemployment benefit liability was approximately
$6 million at both December 31, 2003 and 2002.

Devon has a 401(k) Incentive Savings Plan which
covers all domestic employees. At its discretion, Devon may
match a certain percentage of the employees’ contributions
to the plan. The matching percentage is determined annually by
the Board of Directors. Devon’s matching contributions to
the plan were $10 million, $8 million and
$5 million for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002
and 2001, respectively.

Devon has defined contribution pension plans for
its Canadian employees. Devon makes a contribution to each
employee which is based upon the employee’s base
compensation and classification. Such contributions are subject
to maximum amounts allowed under the Income Tax Act (Canada).
Devon also has a savings plan for its Canadian employees. Under
the savings plan, Devon contributes a base percentage amount to
all employees and the employee may elect to contribute an
additional percentage amount (up to a maximum amount) which is
matched by additional Devon contributions. During 2003, 2002 and
2001, Devon’s combined contributions to the Canadian
defined contribution plan and the Canadian savings plan were
$8 million, $8 million and $3 million,
respectively.

14.

Commitments and Contingencies

Devon is party to various legal actions arising
in the normal course of business. Matters that are probable of
unfavorable outcome to Devon and which can be reasonably
estimated are accrued. Such accruals are based on information
known about the matters, Devon’s estimates of the outcomes
of such



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

matters and its experience in contesting,
litigating and settling similar matters. None of the actions are
believed by management to involve future amounts that would be
material to Devon’s financial position or results of
operations after consideration of recorded accruals although
actual amounts could differ materially from management’s
estimate.

Environmental Matters

Devon is subject to certain laws and regulations
relating to environmental remediation activities associated with
past operations, such as the Comprehensive Environmental
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (“CERCLA”)
and similar state statutes. In response to liabilities
associated with these activities, accruals have been established
when reasonable estimates are possible. Such accruals primarily
include estimated costs associated with remediation. Devon has
not used discounting in determining its accrued liabilities for
environmental remediation, and no material claims for possible
recovery from third party insurers or other parties related to
environmental costs have been recognized in Devon’s
consolidated financial statements. Devon adjusts the accruals
when new remediation responsibilities are discovered and
probable costs become estimable, or when current remediation
estimates must be adjusted to reflect new information.

Certain of Devon’s subsidiaries acquired in
past mergers are involved in matters in which it has been
alleged that such subsidiaries are potentially responsible
parties (“PRPs”) under CERCLA or similar state
legislation with respect to various waste disposal areas owned
or operated by third parties. As of December 31, 2003,
Devon’s consolidated balance sheet included $9 million
of non-current accrued liabilities, reflected in “Other
liabilities,” related to these and other environmental
remediation liabilities. Devon does not currently believe there
is a reasonable possibility of incurring additional material
costs in excess of the current accruals recognized for such
environmental remediation activities. With respect to the sites
in which Devon subsidiaries are PRPs, Devon’s conclusion is
based in large part on (i) Devon’s participation in
consent decrees with both other PRPs and the Environmental
Protection Agency, which provide for performing the scope of
work required for remediation and contain covenants not to sue
as protection to the PRPs, (ii) participation in groups as
a

de minimis

PRP, and (iii) the availability of
other defenses to liability. As a result, Devon’s monetary
exposure is not expected to be material.

Royalty Matters

Numerous gas producers and related parties,
including Devon, have been named in various lawsuits alleging
violation of the federal False Claims Act. The suits allege that
the producers and related parties used below-market prices,
improper deductions, improper measurement techniques and
transactions with affiliates which resulted in underpayment of
royalties in connection with natural gas and natural gas liquids
produced and sold from federal and Indian owned or controlled
lands. The principal suit in which Devon is a defendant is

United States ex rel. Wright v. Chevron USA, Inc.
et al.

(the

“Wright

case”). The suit
was originally filed in August 1996 in the United States
District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, but was
consolidated in October 2000 with the other suits for pre-trial
proceedings in the United States District Court for the District
of Wyoming. On July 10, 2003, the District of Wyoming
remanded the

Wright

case back to the Eastern District of
Texas to resume proceedings. Devon believes that it has acted
reasonably, has legitimate and strong defenses to all
allegations in the suit, and has paid royalties in good faith.
Devon does not currently believe that it is subject to material
exposure in association with this lawsuit and no liability has
been recorded in connection therewith.

Devon is a defendant in certain private royalty
owner litigation filed in Wyoming regarding deductibility of
certain post production costs from royalties payable by Devon.
The plaintiffs in these lawsuits propose to expand them into
county or state-wide class actions relating specifically to
transportation and related costs associated with Devon’s
Wyoming gas production. A significant portion of



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

such production is, or will be, transported
through facilities owned by Thunder Creek Gas Services, L.L.C.,
of which Devon owns a 75% interest. Devon believes that it has
acted reasonably and paid royalties in good faith and in
accordance with its obligations under its oil and gas leases and
applicable law, and Devon does not believe that it is subject to
material exposure in association with this litigation.

Tax Treatment of Exchangeable
    Debentures

As described more fully in Note 8, Devon has
certain exchangeable debentures, with a principal amount
totaling $760 million, which are exchangeable at the option
of the holders into shares of ChevronTexaco common stock owned
by Devon. The debentures were assumed, and the ChevronTexaco
common stock was acquired, by Devon in the 1999 PennzEnergy
merger.

The Internal Revenue Service is currently
examining the 1998 income tax return of PennzEnergy’s
predecessor. In draft notices, the IRS has disagreed with
certain tax treatments of the exchangeable debentures and
similar exchangeable debentures retired in 1998. The IRS has not
yet formally asserted a claim for additional taxes for 1998
related to the exchangeable debentures, but Devon believes it is
probable that such an assertion will eventually be made.

Based upon the draft notices received from the
IRS, Devon estimates that if the IRS formally asserts a claim
for additional taxes for 1998 as a result of its current
examination, the amount of such claim would approximate
$68 million.

Devon does not agree with the positions that have
been taken by the IRS in its draft documents, and will
vigorously contest any claim of additional taxes. Although the
outcome of this matter cannot be predicted with certainty,
Devon, after consultation with legal counsel, believes that if
the IRS formally asserts a claim for additional taxes regarding
the treatment of the exchangeable debentures, Devon would likely
prevail. Even if the IRS prevailed in this matter, Devon
believes that any related increase in its 1998 taxable income
would increase its tax basis in the ChevronTexaco common stock,
or produce a similar tax benefit, and would therefore result in
offsetting tax deductions in future taxable years upon the
disposal of the ChevronTexaco common stock. Therefore, while the
payment of any such additional taxes would reduce Devon’s
operating cash flow in the year of payment, it would not affect
Devon’s net earnings for any period, and the operating cash
flow effect would reverse in future years.

If the IRS ultimately prevailed in this matter,
any interest owed by Devon on such additional taxes would
negatively impact Devon’s operating cash flow and net
earnings. However, Devon does not believe that such impact would
be material to Devon’s financial condition or results of
operations.

Other Matters

Devon is involved in other various routine legal
proceedings incidental to its business. However, to Devon’s
knowledge as of the date of this report, there were no other
material pending legal proceedings to which Devon is a party or
to which any of its property is subject.

Operating Leases

Devon leases certain office space and equipment
under operating lease arrangements. Total rental expense
included in general and administrative expenses under operating
leases net of sub-lease income was $51 million,
$37 million and $17 million in 2003, 2002 and 2001,
respectively.

Devon assumed two offshore platform spar leases
through the 2003 Ocean merger. The spars are being used in the
development of the Nansen and Boomvang fields in the Gulf of
Mexico. The operating leases are for 20-year terms and contain
various options whereby Devon may purchase the lessors’
interests in the spars. Total rental expense included in lease
operating expenses under these operating leases was



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

$11 million in 2003. Devon has guaranteed
that the spars will have residual values at the end of the
operating leases equal to at least 10% of the fair value of the
spars at the inception of the leases. The total guaranteed value
is $20 million in 2022. However, such amount may be reduced
under the terms of the lease agreements.

Devon also has two floating, production, storage
and offloading facilities (FPSO) that are being leased
under operating lease arrangements. One FPSO is being used in
the Panyu project offshore China, and the other is being used in
the Zafiro field offshore Equatorial Guinea. The China lease
expires in September 2009 and the Equatorial Guinea lease
expires in July 2011. Total rental expense included in lease
operating expenses under these operating leases was
$6 million in 2003.

The following is a schedule by year of future
minimum rental payments required under office and equipment,
spar and FPSO leases that have initial or remaining
noncancelable lease terms in excess of one year as of
December 31, 2003:

15.

Reduction of Carrying Value of Oil and Gas
    Properties

Under the full cost method of accounting, the net
book value of oil and gas properties, less related deferred
income taxes and asset retirement obligations, may not exceed a
calculated “ceiling.” The ceiling limitation is the
discounted estimated after-tax future net revenues from proved
oil and gas properties plus the cost of properties not subject
to amortization. The ceiling is determined separately by
country. In calculating future net revenues, current prices and
costs are generally held constant indefinitely. The net book
value, less deferred tax liabilities and asset retirement
obligations, is compared to the ceiling on a quarterly and
annual basis. Any excess of the net book value, less related
deferred taxes and asset retirement obligations, is written off
as an expense. An expense recorded in one period may not be
reversed in a subsequent period even though higher oil and gas
prices may have increased the ceiling applicable to the
subsequent period.

Under the purchase method of accounting for
business combinations, acquired oil and gas properties are
recorded at estimated fair value as of the date of purchase.
Devon estimates such fair value using its estimates of future
oil, gas and NGL prices. In contrast, the ceiling calculation
dictates that prices in effect as of the last day of the
applicable quarter are held constant indefinitely. Accordingly,
the resulting value from the ceiling calculation is not
necessarily indicative of the fair value of the reserves.

During 2003, 2002 and 2001, Devon reduced the
carrying value of its oil and gas properties by
$68 million, $651 million and $883 million,
respectively, due to the full cost ceiling limitations. The
after-



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

tax effect of these reductions in 2003, 2002 and
2001 was $36 million, $371 million and
$533 million, respectively. The following table summarizes
these reductions by geographic area.

The 2003 reduction in carrying value was related
to properties in Egypt, Russia and Indonesia. The Egyptian
reduction was primarily due to poor results of a development
well that was unsuccessful in the primary objective. Partially
as a result of this well, Devon revised Egyptian proved reserves
downward. The Russian reduction was primarily the result of
additional capital costs incurred as well as an increase in
operating costs. The Indonesian reduction was primarily related
to an increase in operating costs and a reduction in proved
reserves. As a result, Devon’s Egyptian, Russian and
Indonesian costs to be recovered exceeded the related ceiling
value by $26 million, $9 million and $1 million,
respectively. These after-tax amounts resulted in pre-tax
reductions of the carrying values of Devon’s Egyptian,
Russian and Indonesian oil and gas properties of
$45 million, $19 million and $4 million,
respectively, in the fourth quarter of 2003.

Additionally, during 2003, Devon elected to
discontinue certain exploratory activities in Ghana, certain
properties in Brazil and other smaller concessions. After
meeting the drilling and capital commitments on these
properties, Devon determined that these properties did not meet
Devon’s internal criteria to justify further investment.
Accordingly, Devon recorded a $43 million charge associated
with the impairment of these properties. The after-tax effect of
this reduction was $38 million.

The 2002 Canadian reduction was primarily the
result of lower prices. The recorded values of oil and gas
properties added from the Anderson acquisition in 2001 were
based on expected future oil and gas prices that were higher
than the June 30, 2002, prices used to calculate the
Canadian ceiling.

The 2001 domestic and Canadian reductions were
also primarily the result of lower prices. The oil and gas
properties added from the Anderson acquisition and other smaller
acquisitions in 2001 were recorded at fair values that were
based on expected future oil and gas prices higher than the
December 31, 2001 prices used to calculate the ceiling.

Additionally, during 2001, Devon elected to
abandon operations in Thailand, Malaysia, Qatar and on certain
properties in Brazil. After meeting the drilling and capital
commitments on these properties, Devon determined that these
properties did not meet Devon’s internal criteria to
justify further investment. Accordingly, Devon recorded an
$96 million charge associated with the impairment of these
properties. The after-tax effect of this reduction was
$78 million.

16.

Discontinued Operations

On April 18, 2002, Devon sold its Indonesian
operations to PetroChina Company Limited for total cash
consideration of $250 million. On October 25, 2002,
Devon sold its Argentine operations to Petroleo Brasileiro S.A.
for total cash consideration of $90 million. On
January 27, 2003, Devon sold its Egyptian operations to IPR
Transoil Corporation for total cash consideration of
$7 million.



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Under the provisions of SFAS No. 144,

Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived
Assets,

Devon reclassified its Indonesian, Argentine and
Egyptian activities as discontinued operations. This
reclassification affects the 2002 and 2001 presentation of
financial results. Subsequent to the sale of its Egyptian and
Indonesian operations, Devon acquired new Egyptian and
Indonesian assets in the April 2003 Ocean merger. Amounts and
activities related to these new Egyptian and Indonesian
operations are included in Devon’s continuing operations in
2003.

The major classes of assets and liabilities of
these discontinued operations as of December 31, 2002 and
revenues from these discontinued operations in 2002 and 2001 are
presented below:

17.

Segment Information

Devon manages its business by country. As such,
Devon identifies its segments based on geographic areas. Devon
has three reportable segments: its operations in the U.S., its
operations in Canada, and its international operations outside
of North America. Substantially all of these segments’
operations involve oil and gas producing activities. Certain
information regarding such activities for each segment is
included in Note 18.



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Following is certain financial information
regarding Devon’s segments for 2003, 2002 and 2001. The
revenues reported are all from external customers.



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

18.

Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas
    Operations (Unaudited)

The following supplemental unaudited information
regarding the oil and gas activities of Devon is presented
pursuant to the disclosure requirements promulgated by the
Securities and Exchange Commission and SFAS No. 69,

Disclosures About Oil and Gas Producing Activities.

Costs Incurred

The following tables reflect the costs incurred
in oil and gas property acquisition, exploration, and
development activities:



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The preceding Total and International cost
incurred tables exclude $16 million and $85 million in
2002 and 2001, respectively, related to discontinued operations.

As discussed in Note 1, effective
January 1, 2003, Devon adopted SFAS No. 143. Prior to
the adoption of SFAS No. 143, asset retirement costs
were included in costs incurred when expenditures for such costs
were made. Pursuant to the adoption of SFAS No. 143,
such costs are now included in costs incurred when a legal
obligation for incurring such costs has occurred.

Pursuant to the full cost method of accounting,
Devon capitalizes certain of its general and administrative
expenses which are related to property acquisition, exploration
and development activities. Such capitalized expenses, which are
included in the costs shown in the preceding tables, were
$140 million, $97 million and $77 million in the
years 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Also, pursuant to the
full cost method of accounting, Devon capitalizes interest costs
incurred and attributable to unproved oil and gas properties and
major development projects of oil and gas properties.
Capitalized interest expenses, which are included in the costs
shown in the preceding tables, were $50 million,
$4 million and $3 million in the years 2003, 2002 and
2001, respectively.



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Results of Operations for Oil and Gas
    Producing Activities

The following tables include revenues and
expenses associated directly with Devon’s oil and gas
producing activities, including general and administrative
expenses directly related to such producing activities. They do
not include any allocation of Devon’s interest costs or
general corporate overhead and, therefore, are not necessarily
indicative of the contribution to net earnings of Devon’s
oil and gas operations. Income tax expense has been calculated
by applying statutory income tax rates to oil, gas and NGL sales
after deducting costs, including depreciation, depletion and
amortization and after giving effect to permanent differences.



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The preceding Total and International results of
oil and gas producing activities tables exclude $19 million
and $28 million in 2002 and 2001, respectively, related to
discontinued operations.

Quantities of Oil and Gas
    Reserves

Set forth below is a summary of the reserves
which were evaluated by independent petroleum consultants for
each of the years ended 2003, 2002 and 2001.



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

“Prepared” reserves are those estimates
of quantities of reserves which were prepared by an independent
petroleum consultant. “Audited” reserves are those
quantities of revenues which were estimated by Devon employees
and audited by an independent petroleum consultant.

The domestic reserves were evaluated by the
independent petroleum consultants of LaRoche Petroleum
Consultants, Ltd. and Ryder Scott Company, L.P. in each of the
years presented. The Canadian reserves were evaluated by the
independent petroleum consultants of AJM Petroleum Consultants
in 2003 and 2002, and Paddock Lindstrom & Associates
and Gilbert Laustsen Jung Associates, Ltd. in 2001. The
International reserves were evaluated by the independent
petroleum consultants of Ryder Scott Company, L.P. in each of
the years presented.

Set forth below is a summary of the changes in
the net quantities of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas
liquids reserves for each of the three years ended
December 31, 2003.



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The preceding International quantities of
reserves are attributable to production sharing contracts with
various foreign governments.



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The preceding Total and International quantities
of oil and gas reserves tables exclude the following proved
reserves and proved developed reserves related to discontinued
operations.

Standardized Measure of Discounted Future
    Net Cash Flows

The accompanying tables reflect the standardized
measure of discounted future net cash flows relating to
Devon’s interest in proved reserves:



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Future cash inflows are computed by applying
year-end prices (averaging $27.55 per barrel of oil,
adjusted for transportation and other charges, $5.18 per
Mcf of gas and $21.22 per barrel of natural gas liquids at
December 31, 2003) to the year-end quantities of proved
reserves, except in those instances where fixed and determinable
price changes are provided by contractual arrangements in
existence at year-end.

Future development and production costs are
computed by estimating the expenditures to be incurred in
developing and producing proved oil and gas reserves at the end
of the year, based on year-end costs and assuming continuation
of existing economic conditions. Of the $3.7 billion of
future development costs, $779 million, $596 million
and $285 million are estimated to be spent in 2004, 2005
and 2006, respectively.

Future production costs include general and
administrative expenses directly related to oil and gas
producing activities. Future income tax expenses are computed by
applying the appropriate statutory tax rates to the future
pre-tax net cash flows relating to proved reserves, net of the
tax basis of the properties involved. The future income tax
expenses give effect to permanent differences and tax credits,
but do not reflect the impact of future operations.

Future development costs include not only
development costs, but also future dismantlement, abandonment
and rehabilitation costs. Included as part of the
$3.7 billion of future development costs are
$937 million of future dismantlement, abandonment and
rehabilitation costs.



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The preceding Total and International
standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows tables
exclude $21 million and $299 million in 2002 and 2001,
respectively, related to discontinued operations.

Changes Relating to the Standardized
    Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows

Principal changes in the standardized measure of
discounted future net cash flows attributable to Devon’s
proved reserves are as follows:

The preceding table excludes $21 million,
$299 million and $407 million as of December 31,
2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively, related to discontinued
operations.



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

19.

Supplemental Quarterly Financial Information
    (Unaudited)

Following is a summary of the unaudited interim
results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2003
and 2002.

The fourth quarter of 2003 includes a
$218 million income tax benefit due to a statutory rate
reduction of the Canadian tax rate. The per share effect of this
tax benefit was $0.90. The fourth quarter of 2003 also includes
$111 million of reduction of carrying value of oil and gas
properties. The after-tax effect of the reduction in carrying
value was $74 million or $0.31 per share.

The second quarter of 2002 includes
$651 million of reduction of carrying value of oil and gas
properties. The fourth quarter of 2002 includes
$205 million for the impairment of ChevronTexaco
Corporation common stock. The after-tax effect of these expenses
was $371 million and $128 million, respectively. The
per share effects of these quarterly reductions was $2.37 and
$0.82, respectively.

Oil, gas and natural gas liquids sales for the
first, second, third and fourth quarters of 2002 exclude
$35 million, $21 million, $17 million and
$7 million, respectively, related to discontinued
operations.



DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Item 9.

Changes in and Disagreements with
    Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

Not Applicable.

Item 9A.

Controls and Procedures

We maintain disclosure controls and procedures
designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in
our filings under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is
recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time
periods specified in the Securities and Exchange
Commission’s rules and forms. Our principal executive and
financial officers have evaluated our disclosure controls and
procedures and have determined that such disclosure controls and
procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by
this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



PART III

Item 10.

Directors and Executive Officers of the
    Registrant

The information called for by this Item 10
is incorporated hereby by reference to the definitive Proxy
Statement to be filed by Devon pursuant to Regulation 14A
of the General Rules and Regulations under the Securities and
Exchange Act of 1934 not later than April 29, 2004.

Item 11.

Executive Compensation

The information called for by this Item 11
is incorporated herein by reference to the definitive Proxy
Statement to be filed by Devon pursuant to Regulation 14A
of the General Rules and Regulations under the Securities and
Exchange Act of 1934 not later than April 29, 2004.

Item 12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
    Owners and Management

The information called for by this Item 12
is incorporated herein by reference to the definitive Proxy
Statement to be filed by Devon pursuant to Regulation 14A
of the General Rules and Regulations under the Securities and
Exchange Act of 1934 not later than April 29, 2004.

Item 13.

Certain Relationships and Related
    Transactions

None.

Item 14.

Principal Auditor Fees and
    Services

The information called for by this Item 14
is incorporated herein by reference to the definitive Proxy
Statement to be filed by Devon pursuant to Regulation 14A
of the General Rules and Regulations under the Securities and
Exchange Act of 1934 not later than April 29, 2004.



PART IV

Item 15.

Exhibits, Financial Statements and
    Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K

(a)

The following documents are filed as
part of this report:















*

Compensatory plans or arrangements

(b)

Reports on Form 8-K:

On November 6, 2003, Devon reported Third
    Quarter Earnings.

On December 3, 2003, Devon announced the
    resignation of James T. Hackett.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant
has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

DEVON ENERGY CORPORATION

By:

/s/ J. LARRY NICHOLS

J. Larry Nichols,

Chairman of the Board and

Chief Executive Officer

March 4, 2004

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the
capacities and on the dates indicated.





INDEX TO EXHIBITS







*

Compensatory plans or arrangements