Item 1.Business.

MarketAxess operates a leading electronic trading platform that allows investment industry
professionals to efficiently trade corporate bonds and other types of fixed-income instruments. Our
over 800 active institutional investor clients (firms that executed at least one trade in U.S. or
European fixed-income securities through our electronic trading platform during 2010) include
investment advisers, mutual funds, insurance companies, public and private pension funds, bank
portfolios, broker-dealers and hedge funds. Our 78 broker-dealer market-maker clients provide
liquidity on the platform and include most of the leading broker-dealers in global fixed-income
trading. Through our Corporate BondTickerTMservice, we provide fixed-income market
data, analytics and compliance tools that help our clients make trading decisions. In addition, we
provide FIX (Financial Information eXchange) message management tools, connectivity solutions and
ancillary technology services that facilitate the electronic communication of order information
between trading counterparties. Our revenues are primarily generated from the trading of U.S.
high-grade corporate bonds.

Our multi-dealer trading platform allows our institutional investor clients to simultaneously
request competing, executable bids or offers from our broker-dealer clients and execute trades with
the broker-dealer of their choice from among those that choose to respond. We offer our
broker-dealer clients a solution that enables them to efficiently reach our institutional investor
clients for the distribution and trading of bonds. In addition to U.S. high-grade corporate bonds,
European high-grade corporate bonds and emerging markets bonds, including both investment-grade and
non-investment grade debt, we also offer our clients the ability to trade crossover and high-yield
bonds, agency bonds, asset-backed and preferred securities and credit default swaps (“CDS”).

The majority of our revenues are derived from monthly distribution fees and commissions for
trades executed on our platform that are billed to our broker-dealer clients on a monthly basis. We
also derive revenues from technology products and services, information and user access fees,
investment income and other income. Our expenses consist of employee compensation and benefits,
depreciation and amortization, technology and communication expenses, professional and consulting
fees, occupancy, marketing and advertising and general and administrative expenses.

Traditionally, bond trading has been a manual process, with product and price discovery
conducted over the telephone between two or more parties. This traditional process has a number of
shortcomings resulting primarily from the lack of a central trading facility for these securities,
which creates difficulty matching buyers and sellers for particular issues. Many corporate bond
trading participants use e-mail and other electronic means of communication for trading corporate
bonds. While this has addressed some of the shortcomings associated with traditional corporate bond
trading, we believe that the process is still hindered by limited liquidity, limited price
transparency, significant transaction costs, compliance and regulatory challenges, and difficulty
in executing numerous trades at one time.

Through our disclosed multi-dealer Request For Quote (“RFQ”) trading functionality, our
institutional investor clients can determine prices available for a security, a process called
price discovery, as well as trade securities directly with our broker-dealer clients. The price
discovery process includes the ability to view indicative prices from the broker-dealer clients’
inventory available on our platform, access to real-time pricing information and analytical tools
(including spread-to-Treasury data, search capabilities and independent third-party credit
research) available on our Corporate BondTickerTMservice and the ability to request
executable bids and offers simultaneously from up to 64 of our broker-dealer clients during the
trade process. On average, institutional investor clients
receive several bids or offers from broker-dealer clients in response to trade inquiries.
However, some trade inquiries may not receive any bids or offers.

-3-




Our services relating to trade execution include single and multiple-dealer inquiries; list
trading, which is the ability to request bids and offers on multiple bonds at the same time; and
swap trading, which is the ability to request an offer to purchase one bond and a bid to sell
another bond, in a manner such that the two trades will be executed simultaneously, with payment
based on the price differential of the bonds. Once a trade is completed on our platform, the
broker-dealer client and institutional investor client may settle the trade with the assistance of
our automated post-trade messaging, which facilitates the communication of trade acknowledgment and
allocation information between our institutional investor and broker-dealer clients.

Typically, we are not a party to the trades that occur on our platform between institutional
investor clients and broker-dealer clients; rather, we serve as an intermediary between
broker-dealers and institutional investors, enabling them to meet, agree on a price and then
transact with each other. However, we also execute certain bond transactions between and among
institutional investor and broker-dealer clients on a riskless principal basis by serving as
counterparty to both the buyer and the seller in matching back-to-back trades, which are then
settled through a third-party clearing organization. These are primarily voice-assisted trades, a
service that we introduced as an adjunct to RFQ trading during late 2008 in response to the adverse
effect of the credit crisis on dealer liquidity in corporate bonds. We act as intermediary on a
riskless principal basis in these bond transactions by serving as counterparty to the two clients
involved.

Our broker-dealer clients accounted for approximately 97% of the underwriting of newly-issued
U.S. high-grade corporate bonds and approximately 68% of the underwriting of newly issued European
high-grade corporate bonds in 2010. We believe these broker-dealers also represent the principal
source of secondary market liquidity in the other markets in which we operate. Secondary market
liquidity refers to the ability of market participants to buy or sell a security quickly and in
large volume subsequent to the original issuance of the security, without substantially affecting
the price of the security. In addition to trading fixed-income securities by traditional means,
including the telephone and e-mail, our broker-dealer clients use proprietary single-dealer systems
and other trading platforms as well as our electronic trading platform. We believe that the
traditional means of trading remain the manner in which the majority of bonds are traded between
institutional investors and broker-dealers.

Our volume in U.S. high-grade corporate bonds represented approximately 8.4% of the total U.S.
high-grade corporate bond volume, excluding convertible bonds, for 2010 as reported by the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”) Trade Reporting and Compliance Engine (“TRACE”),
which includes inter-dealer and retail trading as well as trading between institutional investors
and broker-dealers.

Industry Background

Fixed-income securities are issued by corporations, governments and other entities, and pay a
pre-set absolute or relative rate of return. As of September 30, 2010 there were approximately
$35.7 trillion of fixed-income securities outstanding in the U.S. market, including $7.4 trillion
of U.S. corporate bonds.

The U.S. and European credit markets experienced a period of significant turmoil beginning
during the third quarter of 2007, especially in short-term funding and floating rate note
instruments. A widespread retrenchment in the credit markets resulted in increased credit spreads
and significantly higher credit spread volatility across a wide range of asset classes. The U.S.
credit markets demonstrated significant improvement throughout 2009 and 2010, with net inflows to
taxable bond funds and corporate and international bond exchange-traded funds, and an increase in
the volume of new issues of high-grade corporate bonds compared to the second half of 2008. Credit
yield spreads in U.S. corporate bonds declined to 1.1% over U.S. Treasuries as of December 31, 2010
from a peak of 5.4% in December 2008. The trading volume of U.S. high-grade corporate bonds as
reported by FINRA Trade Reporting and Compliance Engine (“TRACE”) increased from $2.0 trillion for
the year ended December 31, 2008 to $2.9 trillion for each of the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2010. After
demonstrating improved conditions during 2009, European credit markets deteriorated throughout 2010
due in part to continuing sovereign debt credit concerns.

U.S. High-Grade Corporate Bond Market

The total amount of U.S. corporate bonds outstanding has grown from $5.3 trillion as of
December 31, 2006 to $7.4 trillion as of September 30, 2010. The estimated average daily trading volume of
U.S. corporate bonds (investment grade and high yield), as measured by TRACE, has increased from
approximately $14.1 billion in 2006 to $16.8 billion in 2010.

-4-




The U.S. corporate bond market consists of three broad categories of securities:
investment-grade debt (so-called “high-grade”), which typically refers to debt rated BBB- or better
by Standard & Poor’s or Baa3 or better by Moody’s Investor Service; debt rated below
investment-grade (so-called “high-yield”), which typically refers to debt rated lower than BBB- by
Standard & Poor’s or Baa3 by Moody’s Investor Service; and debt convertible into equity (so-called
“convertible debt”).

The U.S. high-grade corporate bond market, which represents the largest subset of the U.S.
corporate bond market, has undergone significant change over the last decade, which has been driven
by a number of factors, including:

•Improved price transparency— In 2002, FINRA adopted TRACE reporting, which requires
FINRA members to report secondary market transactions in certain fixed-income securities to
FINRA. The list of TRACE-eligible bonds includes 29,000 unique securities, representing the
majority of the daily trading volume of high-grade bonds.

•Introduction of electronic trading platforms— Electronic trading platforms act as
central facilities to bring together buyers and sellers. The actions of participants on
these platforms are facilitated by an electronic medium that improves some of the manual
processes that might otherwise be required, such as searching for securities with specific
characteristics, the coordination of multiple bilateral telephone calls or electronic
communications, the sorting and analysis of competing bids or offers, and the entry of
orders into the trading system after verbal or e-mail trade agreement. As a result, these
platforms typically provide a lower-cost and more efficient means of enhanced distribution
and trade execution than previously possible.

•Introduction of credit derivatives— Credit derivatives can provide increased
flexibility and liquidity for investors and lenders to diversify their credit exposures. The
notional amount of outstanding CDS transactions grew rapidly between 2002 and 2007.
However, activity in the CDS market has since fallen substantially due to concern over the
risks associated with these products, in particular the counterparty credit risks, and
uncertainty regarding the effect of changes to the market resulting from implementation of
the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), which
was enacted during 2010.

•Total amount of debt issued— During 2006 and 2007, the gross amount of new bonds issued
averaged approximately $950 billion. During 2008, high-grade corporate bond issuance
declined to $664 billion as risk aversion among corporate bond investors limited the ability
of issuers across a wide range of industries, in particular the financial services industry,
to issue new corporate bonds. The credit markets demonstrated significant improvement
throughout 2009 and 2010 and new issues of high-grade corporate bonds increased to
approximately $752 billion in 2010.





-5-






European High-Grade Corporate Bond Market

The European high-grade corporate bond market consists of a broad range of products, issuers
and currencies. We define the European high-grade corporate bond market generally to consist of
bonds intended to be distributed to European investors, primarily bonds issued by European
corporations, excluding bonds that are issued by a corporation domiciled in an emerging markets
country and excluding most government bonds that trade in Europe. Examples include:

•bonds issued by European corporations, denominated in any currency;

•bonds generally denominated in Euros, U.S. dollars or Pounds Sterling, excluding
bonds that are issued by a corporation domiciled in an emerging market;

•bonds issued by supra-national organizations (entities that include a number of
central banks or government financial authorities, such as the World Bank), agencies and
governments located in Europe, generally denominated in Euros, U.S. dollars or Pounds
Sterling, provided that such currency is not the currency of the country where the bond
was issued; and

•floating-rate notes issued by European corporations.

We believe that the European high-grade corporate bond market is impacted by many of the same
factors as the U.S. high-grade corporate bond market. In addition, we believe the following factors
are unique to the European high-grade corporate bond market:

•Sovereign credit issues—The global financial crisis has led to a significant rise
in sovereign debt relative to GDP. In the Euro area, gross public sector debt surged to
84% of GDP in 2010 from 66% of GDP in 2007. Increased government deficits and debt
levels along with ratings downgrades sparked fears of default among Euro zone nations,
leading to increased yields on government bonds, making a more difficult trading
environment for European corporate bonds.

•Regulatory environment— Certain European Union countries have eased restrictions
that required institutional investors to invest primarily in domestic securities. This
has provided European institutional investors with increased flexibility to invest in
securities issued by entities domiciled in other countries within the European Union.
In 2007, the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (“MiFID”) came into effect.
MiFID is designed to further harmonize the financial markets of the member states of the
European Union and introduces new pre- and post-trade transparency requirements.

•Common liquidity pool— The larger capital pool created by the common currency and
changes in the regulatory environment have facilitated bond issuance by European
corporations.

Emerging Markets Bond Market

We define the emerging markets bond market generally to include U.S. dollar, Euro or local
currency denominated bonds issued by sovereign entities or corporations domiciled in a developing
country. These issuers are typically located in Latin America, Asia, or Central and Eastern Europe.
Examples of countries we classify as emerging markets include: Brazil, Colombia, Mexico, Peru, the
Philippines, Russia, Turkey and Venezuela.

The institutional investor base for emerging markets bonds includes many crossover investors
from the high-yield and high-grade investment areas. Institutional investors have been drawn to
emerging markets bonds by their high returns and high growth potential. Demand for emerging markets
bonds declined significantly in the fourth quarter of 2008 as the turmoil in the credit markets and
the world-wide recession impacted the emerging markets. Emerging markets bond prices as measured
by the JPMorgan emerging markets sovereign external debt and corporate bond indices fell steeply in
2008 but demonstrated significant improvement during 2009 and 2010. Emerging markets sovereign
external debt and bond indices grew 12.0% and 12.5%, respectively, during 2010.

Crossover and High-Yield Bond Market

We define the high-yield bond market generally to include all debt rated lower than BBB- by
Standard & Poor’s or Baa3 by Moody’s Investor Service. We define the crossover market to include
any debt issue rated below investment grade by one agency but investment grade by the other. The
total amount of high-yield corporate bonds yearly issuance was $146.6 billion for the year ended
December 31, 2006 but declined to $43.0 billion during 2008, primarily due to the risk aversion
among corporate bond investors that
severely limited the ability of high-yield issuers to raise new debt. The high-yield corporate
bond markets demonstrated significant improvement throughout 2009 and 2010, with new issuance for
the year ended December 31, 2010 increasing to $273.0 billion.

-6-




FINRA publicly disseminates real-time price information on approximately 12,000 high-yield
corporate bond issues and certain other transactions on a delayed basis. Trades in bonds rated BB
and lower are subject to immediate dissemination if the trade size is less than $1 million, or
greater than $1 million and trades an average of once or more a day. The average daily trading
volume of high-yield bonds reported by FINRA for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $5.2 billion.

Agency Bond Market

We define the agency bond market to include debt issued by a U.S. government-sponsored
enterprise. Some prominent issuers of agency bonds are the Federal National Mortgage Association
(“Fannie Mae”) and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (“Freddie Mac”). The total amount of U.S.
agency bonds outstanding was approximately $2.6 trillion as of September 30, 2010. The Federal
Reserve Bank of New York reported average daily trading volume for 2010 of $16.8 billion in federal
agency and government sponsored enterprise coupon securities (excluding mortgage-backed
securities).

Credit Default Swap Market

Although the European regulators have not yet introduced legislation concerning regulation of
the European derivatives markets, the European Commission has issued three consultation papers
intended to help define certain terms in the new OTC derivatives landscape. Our expectation is that
the EU will, in line with the U.S., mandate central clearing of standardized CDS contracts and
increase transparency through enhanced trade reporting requirements. However, it is not yet clear
whether there will be any requirement in the EU to trade standardized CDS contracts on regulated
exchanges or trading platforms.

Asset-Backed Securities

Asset-backed securities are ownership interests in a pool of receivables sold by originators
into a special purpose vehicle. These securities are typically secured by pools of homogeneous assets with
relatively predictable cash flows. The assets are legally separated from the seller, which limits
the investor’s exposure to the credit quality of the seller. In 2010, $107 billion in U.S.
asset-backed securities were issued, a decrease from $151 billion in 2009. The total amount of
U.S. asset-backed securities outstanding at the end of 2010 was $2.2 trillion.

Preferred Securities

Preferred securities are equity ownership securities that carry additional rights above and
beyond those conferred by common shares. The additional rights typically include preference in
dividends and seniority in assets vis-à-vis common stock in the event of liquidation. Other
typical features include convertibility into common stock, callable at the option of the
corporation and no voting rights. We estimate that the average daily
trading volume of preferred securities was approximately
$640 million in 2010.

-7-




Our Competitive Strengths

Our electronic trading platform provides solutions to some of the shortcomings of traditional
bond trading methods. The benefits of our solution are demonstrable throughout the trading cycle:

•Pre-trade— gathering real-time and historical pricing information, identifying
interested buyers and sellers in a particular security, and obtaining research and
analysis;

•Trade— single and multiple security trade execution; and

•Post-trade— trade detail matching, account allocation and automated audit trail.

We believe that we are well positioned to strengthen our market position in electronic trading
in our existing products and to extend our presence into new products and services by capitalizing
on our competitive strengths, including:

Significant Trading Volumes with Participation by Leading Broker-Dealers and Institutional
Investors

Our electronic trading platform provides access to the liquidity provided through the
participation on our platform of 78 broker-dealer market making clients, including substantially
all of the leading broker-dealers in global fixed-income trading, and over 800 active institutional
investor firms. We believe these broker-dealers represent the principal source of secondary market
liquidity for U.S. high-grade corporate bonds, European high-grade corporate bonds, emerging
markets bonds and the other markets in which we operate. Our broker-dealer clients are motivated to
continue to utilize our platform due to the presence on the platform of our large network of
institutional investor clients. We believe that our net addition of 30 new broker-dealer market
making clients during 2009 and 2010 has improved and will continue to improve the liquidity on our
electronic trading platform for institutional investors, further motivating them to use our
platform. The number of our active institutional investor clients for the past five years has been
as follows:



-8-




Our total trading
volume increased from $339.6 billion in 2006 to $402.3 billion in 2010.
We believe our trading volumes in 2008 and 2009 reflect the turmoil and resultant lack of liquidity
in the credit markets beginning in the third quarter of 2007.
Our total trading volume over the past five years is indicated below:Our volume in U.S. high-grade corporate bonds grew from approximately 8.5% of total U.S.
high-grade corporate bond volume, excluding convertible bonds, in 2006 as reported by FINRA TRACE,
which includes inter-dealer and retail trading as well as trading between institutional investors
and broker-dealers, to approximately 9.4% in 2007. However, following the credit market turmoil, our estimated
market share declined to approximately 6.2% for the full year 2009. Our volume in U.S. high-grade
floating rate note bonds declined from $46.0 billion in 2007 to $6.6 billion in 2009. The U.S.
credit markets demonstrated significant improvement throughout 2009 and 2010. Our estimated share
of total U.S. high-grade corporate bond volume for 2010 was approximately 8.4%. Our estimated
market share from 2006 to 2010 is shown in the chart below:-9-




Execution Benefits to Clients

Benefits to Institutional Investor Clients

We believe we provide numerous benefits to our institutional investor clients over traditional
fixed-income trading methods, including:

Competitive Prices.By enabling institutional investors to simultaneously request bids or
offers from our broker-dealer clients, we believe our electronic trading platform creates an
environment that motivates our broker-dealer clients to provide competitive prices and gives
institutional investors confidence that they are obtaining a competitive price. For typical
MarketAxess multi-dealer corporate bond inquiries, the range of competitive spread-to-Treasury
responses is, on average, approximately 10 basis points (a basis point is 1/100 of 1% in yield). As
an example of the potential cost savings to institutional investors, a one basis point savings on a
$1 million face amount trade of a bond with 10 years to maturity translates to aggregate savings of
approximately $775.00.

Transparent Pricing on a Range of Securities.The commingled multi-dealer inventory of bonds
posted by our broker-dealer clients on our platform consists of a daily average of more than $70
billion in indicative bids and offers. Subject to applicable regulatory requirements, institutional
investors can search bonds in inventory based on any combination of issuer, issue, rating,
maturity, spread-to-Treasury, size and dealer providing the listing, in a fraction of the time it
takes to do so manually. Institutional investor clients can also request executable bids and offers
on our electronic trading platform on any debt security in a database of U.S. and European
corporate bonds, although there can be no assurance as to the number of broker-dealers who will
choose to provide an executable price. Our platform transmits bid and offer requests in real-time
to broker-dealer clients, who may respond with executable prices within a time period specified by
the institutional investor. Institutional investors may also elect to display live requests for
bids or offers anonymously to all other users of our electronic trading platform, in order to
create broader visibility of their inquiry among market participants and increase the likelihood
that the request results in a trade. We believe that broader participation in client inquiries
will result in more trade matches and lower transaction costs.

Improved Cost Efficiency.We believe that we provide improved efficiency by reducing the time
and labor required to conduct broad product and price discovery. Single-security and multi-security
(bid or offer lists) inquiries can be efficiently conducted with multiple broker-dealers. In
addition, our Corporate BondTickerTMeliminates the need for manually-intensive phone
calls or e-mail communication to gather, sort and analyze information concerning historical
transaction prices.

Benefits to Broker-Dealer Clients

We also provide substantial benefits to our broker-dealer clients over traditional
fixed-income trading methods, including:

Greater Sales Efficiency.We offer our broker-dealer clients broad connectivity with their
institutional investor clients. Through this connectivity, our broker-dealer clients are able to
efficiently display their indications of interest to buy and sell various securities. We also
enable broker-dealers to broaden their distribution by participating in transactions to which they
otherwise may not have had access. In addition, the ability to post prices and electronically
execute on straightforward trades enables bond sales professionals at broker-dealer firms to focus
their efforts on more profitable activities, such as higher value-added trades and more complex
transactions.

More Efficient Inventory Management.The posting of inventory to, and the ability to respond
to inquiries from, a broad pool of institutional investors, creates an increased opportunity for
broker-dealers to identify demand for their inventory, particularly in less liquid securities. As a
result, we believe they can achieve enhanced bond inventory turnover, which may limit credit
exposure.

Benefits to Both Institutional Investor and Broker-Dealer Clients

We offer additional benefits over traditional fixed-income trading methods that are shared by
both institutional investor and broker-dealer clients, including:

Greater Trading Accuracy.Our electronic trading platform includes verification mechanisms at
various stages of the execution process which result in greater accuracy in the processing,
confirming and clearing of trades between institutional investor and broker-dealer clients. These
verification mechanisms are designed to ensure that our broker-dealer and institutional investor
clients are sending accurate trade messages by providing multiple opportunities to verify they are
trading the correct bond, at the agreed-upon price and size. Our platform assists our institutional
investor clients in automating the transmittal of order tickets from the portfolio manager to the
trader, and from the trader to back-office personnel. This automation provides more timely
execution and a reduction in the likelihood of errors that can result from manual entry of
information into different systems.

-10-




Efficient Risk Monitoring and Compliance.Institutional investors and their regulators are
increasingly focused on ensuring that best execution is achieved for fixed-income trades. Our
electronic trading platform offers both institutional investors and broker-dealers an automated
audit trail for each stage in the trading cycle. This enables compliance personnel to review
information relating to trades more easily and with greater reliability. Trade information
including time, price and spread-to-Treasury is stored securely and automatically on our electronic
trading platform. This data represents a valuable source of information for our clients’ compliance
personnel. Importantly, we believe the automated audit trail, together with the competitive pricing
that is a feature of our electronic trading platform, gives fiduciaries the ability to demonstrate
that they have achieved best execution on behalf of their clients.

Other Service Offerings

In addition to services directly related to the execution of trades, we offer our clients
several other services, including:

Information Services.The information and analytical tools we provide to our clients help
them make investment and trading decisions. Our Corporate BondTickerTMprovides access
to real-time and historical price, yield and MarketAxess estimated spread-to-Treasuries for
publicly disseminated FINRA TRACE-eligible bonds. Corporate BondTickerTMcombines
publicly-available TRACE data with the prices for trades executed on our U.S. high-grade electronic
trading platform, integrating the two data sources and providing real-time TRACE data with
associated analytical tools that are not otherwise available. Corporate BondTickerTMprovides end-of-day CDS pricing data combined with CDS analytics and screening tools that
incorporate cash bond and equity market data. In addition, Corporate BondTickerTMprovides indicative prices for secondary loans, through arrangements with certain of our
broker-dealer clients, and independent third-party credit research. Our electronic trading platform
allows institutional investors to compile, sort and use information to discover investment
opportunities that might have been difficult or impossible to identify using a manual
information-gathering process or other electronic services.

We offer a comprehensive set of reports designed to review and monitor credit trading activity
for institutional investor clients. These reports utilize extensive TRACE information and are
accessible by means of a flexible interface to run and save reports in a variety of formats for
both compliance and management reporting. For example, the best execution report provides a view
of the savings generated by trading on our electronic trading platform and offers a quantitative
measure of the value of price discovery from multiple dealers. The report allows clients to
monitor performance against their own best execution policy. Our compliance product provides a
printed history of each inquiry submitted through the MarketAxess trading platform.

Straight-Through Processing.Straight-through processing (“STP”) refers to the integration of
systems and processes to automate the trade process from end-to-end — trade execution,
confirmation and settlement — without the need for manual intervention. Our electronic trading
platform provides broker-dealers and institutional investors with the ability to automate portions
of their transaction processing requirements, improving accuracy and efficiency. Through electronic
messaging, institutional investors can submit inquiries to, and receive electronic notices of
execution from us, in industry standard protocols, complete with all relevant trade details.
Institutional investors can download trade messages, allocate trades to sub-accounts on whose
behalf the trades were made and send the allocations to broker-dealers for confirmation.

Technology Products and Services.We provide integration, testing and management solutions for
FIX-related products and services designed to optimize the electronic trading of fixed-income,
equity and other exchange-based products. We also provide technology consulting and customized
development services to our clients that leverage our trading technology expertise and our existing
technology solutions. In addition, we provide gateway adapters to connect order management and
trading systems to fixed-income trading venues.

Robust, Scalable Technology

We have developed proprietary technology that is highly secure, fault-tolerant and provides
adequate capacity for our current operations, as well as for substantial growth. Our highly
scalable systems are designed to accommodate additional volume, products and clients with
relatively little modification and low incremental costs.

Proven Innovator with an Experienced Management Team

Since our inception, we have been an innovator in the fixed-income securities markets. Our
management team is comprised of executives with an average of more than 20 years’ experience in the
securities industry. We have consistently sought to benefit participants in the markets we serve by
attempting to replicate the essential features of fixed-income trading, including the existing
relationships between broker-dealers and their institutional investor clients, while applying
technology to eliminate weaknesses in
traditional trading methods. In 2010, Credit magazine recognized MarketAxess as “Best
e-trading platform for corporate bonds and CDS” both in the U.S. and in Europe. MarketAxess was
also recognized by Financial News as “Best OTC Trading System” and “Best Fixed-Income Trading
Platform” in the Awards for Excellence in Trading & Technology — Europe 2010.

-11-




Some of the innovations we have introduced to electronic trading include:

•the first multi-dealer disclosed trading platform for U.S. high-grade corporate
bonds;

•the first electronic Treasury benchmarking for U.S. high-grade corporate bond trades;

•Corporate BondTickerTM, our information services product, combining FINRA
TRACE bond data with MarketAxess data and analytical tools;

•bid and offer list technology for corporate bond trading, enabling institutional
investors to request executable prices for multiple securities simultaneously;

•the first disclosed client to multi-dealer trading platform for CDS indices; and

•public Market Lists for corporate bonds, giving institutional investors the ability
to display their bid and offer lists anonymously to the entire MarketAxess trading
community.

Our Strategy

Our objective is to provide the leading global electronic trading platform for fixed-income
securities, connecting broker-dealers and institutional investors more easily and efficiently,
while offering a broad array of information, trading and technology services to market participants
across the trading cycle. The key elements of our strategy are:

Enhance the Liquidity of Securities Traded on Our Platform and Broaden Our Client Base in Our
Existing Markets

We intend to further enhance the liquidity of securities traded on our leading electronic,
multi-dealer to client fixed-income platform. Our ability to innovate and efficiently add new
functionality and product offerings to the MarketAxess platform will help us deepen our market
share with our existing clients, as well as expand our client base, which we believe will in turn
lead to even further increases in the liquidity of the securities provided by our broker-dealer
clients and available on our platform. We will seek to increase the number of active European and
other international institutional investor clients using our U.S. electronic trading platform,
subject to regulatory requirements.

Leverage our Existing Technology and Client Relationships to Expand into New Sectors of the
Fixed-Income Securities Market

We intend to leverage our technology, as well as our strong broker-dealer and institutional
investor relationships, to deploy our electronic trading platform into additional product segments
within the fixed-income securities markets and deliver fixed-income securities-related technical
services and products. Due in part to our highly scalable systems, we believe we will be able to
enter new markets efficiently. As an example, we have developed technology and trading protocols
to trade CDS in anticipation of implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act and, subject to such
rulemaking, we currently expect to establish and operate a swap execution facility and/or a security-based
swap execution facility.

Leverage our Existing Technology and Client Relationships to Expand into New Client Segments

We intend to leverage our technology and client relationships to deploy our electronic trading
platform into new client segments. As an example, we have expanded the base of broker-dealers on
our platform to include both regional and diversity dealers.

Continue to Strengthen and Expand our Trade-Related Service Offerings

We plan to continue building our existing service offerings so that our electronic trading
platform is more fully integrated into the workflow of our broker-dealer and institutional investor
clients. We also plan to continue to add functionality to enhance the ability of
our clients to achieve a fully automated, end-to-end straight-through processing solution
(automation from trade initiation to settlement). We are continually considering the introduction
of new trading techniques.

-12-




Expand our Data and Information Services Offerings

We regularly add new content and analytical capabilities to Corporate BondTickerTMin order to improve the value of the information we provide to our clients. We intend to continue
to widen the user base of our data products and to continue adding new content and analytical
capabilities. As the use of our electronic trading platform continues to grow, we believe that the
amount and value of our proprietary trading data will also increase, further enhancing the value of
our information services offerings to our clients.

Expand our Technology Services Offerings

We intend to leverage our technology expertise and our client relationships to provide
technology solutions to our clients that enhance their electronic trading capabilities and
facilitate the electronic communication of order information with their trading counterparties.

Pursue Select Acquisitions and Strategic Alliances

We plan to continue to increase and supplement our internal growth by entering into strategic
alliances, or acquiring businesses or technologies, that will enable us to enter new markets,
provide new products or services, or otherwise enhance the value of our platform to our clients.

MarketAxess Electronic Trading Platform

Key Trading Functionalities

The key trading functionalities are detailed below.

Single Inquiry Trading Functionality

We currently offer institutional investors the ability to request bids or offers in a single
inquiry from up to 50 of our broker-dealer clients for U.S. high-grade corporate bonds, from up to
six of our broker-dealer clients for European high-grade corporate bonds and from up to eight of
our broker-dealer clients in emerging markets bonds. Institutional investors can obtain bids or
offers on any security posted in inventory or included in the database available on our platform.

ASAP and Holding Bin Trading Functionalities

We provide both ASAP (“as soon as possible”) and Holding Bin trading protocols. In the
Holding Bin trading protocol, institutional investor clients set the time when they would like all
of the broker-dealers’ prices or spreads returned to them, in order to have the ability to see all
executable prices available at the same time. In the ASAP trading protocol, institutional investor
clients see each broker-dealer’s price or spread as soon as it is entered by the broker-dealer.

List Trading Functionality

We currently offer institutional investors the ability to request bids or offers on a list of
up to 40 bonds depending on the market. This facilitates efficient trading for institutional
investors such as investment advisors, mutual funds and hedge funds. Institutional investors are
able to have multiple lists executable throughout the trading day, enabling them to manage their
daily cash flows, portfolio duration, and credit and sector exposure.

Swap Trading Functionality

We currently offer institutional investors the ability to request an offer to purchase one
bond and a bid to sell another bond, in a manner such that the two trades will be executed
simultaneously, with payment based on the price or yield differential of the securities.

-13-




Market Lists

We offer institutional investors the ability to display live requests for bids and offers
anonymously to the entire MarketAxess trading community through our Market List functionality,
thereby creating broader visibility of their inquiry among market participants and increasing the
likelihood that the request results in a trade.

Click-to-Trade

We have enhanced our trading system to provide pre-trade price discovery and fast-track
execution for European bonds. Click-to-trade functionality streams attributable pricing in European
credit and rates instruments, submitted by our pool of European dealers. Investor clients are able
to initiate an inquiry with a single click on the stacks of distinctly displayed dealer bids and
offers. Click-to-trade is offered alongside our existing Request for Quote product. Although
currently limited to European credit and rate instruments, click-to-trade functionality may be
applied to trading of other market sectors.

Markets

U.S. High-Grade Corporate Bonds

Our U.S. high-grade corporate bond business consists of U.S. dollar-denominated
investment-grade debt issued by corporations for distribution in the U.S. Both domestic and foreign
institutional investors have access to U.S. high-grade corporate bond trading on our electronic
trading platform. We use the terms high-grade debt and investment-grade debt interchangeably in
this annual report on Form 10-K. Our 2010 trading volume in the U.S. high-grade corporate bond
market was $243.4 billion.

In the U.S. high-grade corporate bond market, 61 broker-dealers utilize our platform,
including each of the top 20 broker-dealers as ranked by 2010 investment grade new-issue
underwriting volume. Our broker-dealer clients accounted for approximately 97% of the underwriting
of newly-issued U.S. high-grade corporate bonds in 2010.

We offer our institutional investor clients access to a broad inventory of U.S. high-grade
corporate bonds, which is provided and updated daily by our broker-dealer clients. Our electronic
trading platform allows institutional investors to view bids and offers from one or more of our
broker-dealer clients while permitting each party to know the identity of its counter-party
throughout the trading process. Our disclosed inquiry trading functionality combines the strength
of existing offline client/dealer relationships with the efficiency and transparency of an
electronic trading platform. This enables institutional investors to instantly direct trade
inquiries and negotiations to their traditional broker-dealer or to any of the substantial majority
of the world’s leading broker-dealers who provide liquidity in these securities. Through our Market
List functionality, we also offer institutional investors the ability to display their live
requests for bid and offer lists anonymously to the entire MarketAxess trading community as a means
of creating broader visibility of their inquiry among market participants and increasing the
likelihood that the request results in a trade.

Institutional investors have access to the commingled inventory of our broker-dealer clients,
representing indicative bids and offers. Each line item of inventory represents an indicative bid
and/or offer on a particular bond issue by a particular broker-dealer client. Institutional
investor clients are not restricted to trading only the bonds posted as inventory, although many of
the trades conducted on our platform are made from the posted inventory. To transact in a specific
bond that does not appear in inventory, institutional investors can easily search our database and
submit an online inquiry to their chosen broker-dealers, who can respond with live, executable
prices. While, on average, institutional investor clients receive several bids or offers from
broker-dealers in response to trade inquiries, some inquiries may not receive any bids or offers.

Eurobonds

MarketAxess Europe Limited, our wholly-owned U.K. subsidiary, offers European secondary
trading functionality in U.S. dollar- and Euro-denominated European corporate bonds to our
broker-dealer and institutional investor clients. We also offer our clients the ability to trade in
other European high-grade corporate bonds, including bonds issued in Pounds Sterling, floating rate
notes, European government bonds and bonds denominated in non-core currencies. We offered the first
platform in Europe with a multi-dealer disclosed counterparty trading capability for corporate
bonds. In 2009, MarketAxess Europe Limited received FSA regulatory approval to trade on a riskless
principal basis. In November 2010, we launched a click-to-trade protocol for the European market.

-14-




In the Eurobond credit market, defined as including European high-grade, high yield and
government bonds, 25 broker-dealers utilize our platform, including 17 of the top 20 broker-dealers
as ranked by 2010 European investment grade new-issue underwriting volume. On a typical day,
institutional investors on our European corporate bond trading platform have access to over 65,000
lines of streaming pre-trade price indications on over 10,000 individual instruments covered on
both the bid and offer side of the market. In a single inquiry, institutional investors can request
bids or offers from up to six of the broker-dealers who participate on the European platform. While
many of the trades conducted on our platform are made from the posted inventory, institutional
investor clients are not restricted to trading only the bonds posted as inventory. To transact in a
specific bond that does not appear in inventory, institutional investors can easily search our
database and submit an online inquiry to their chosen broker-dealers, who can respond with live,
executable prices. While, on average, institutional investor clients receive several bids or offers
from broker-dealers in response to trade inquiries, some inquiries may not receive any bids or
offers. Our 2010 trading volume in the Eurobond market was $50.3 billion.

Emerging Markets Bonds

Forty-six of our U.S. broker-dealer clients use our platform to trade emerging markets bonds.
Three hundred seventy-one active institutional investor clients (firms that executed at least one
trade through our electronic trading platform between January 2010 and December 2010) utilize our
electronic trading platform to trade emerging markets bonds. These institutional investor clients
are located in both the U.S. and Europe. The emerging markets countries whose bonds were most
frequently traded on our platform in 2010 were Brazil, Mexico, Venezuela, Argentina and Russia.

In 2007, we introduced local markets emerging market debt trading, which allows our
institutional investor clients to transact Euroclear-eligible local currency denominated bonds
issued by sovereign entities or corporations in countries that include Mexico, Brazil and
Argentina.

Crossover and High-Yield Bonds

Sixty-four of our U.S. broker-dealer clients use our platform to trade crossover and
high-yield bonds. Trading in crossover and high-yield bonds uses many of the same features
available in our U.S. high-grade corporate bond offering.

Agency Bonds

Thirty-four of our U.S. broker-dealer clients use our platform to trade agency bonds. Trading
in agency bonds uses many of the same features available in our U.S. high-grade corporate bond
offering.

Credit Default Swaps

We offer CDS index trading on our platform and also offer the capacity to trade lists of
single-name CDS. In addition to the trading features, the index trading platform also offers STP
connectivity for dealers and institutional investor clients. In 2009, we conformed our platform to
the new standardized credit default swap calculation methodologies. Ten of our U.S. broker-dealer
clients are activated to use our platform to trade CDS.

Asset-Backed Securities

In
January 2011, we introduced trading in consumer asset-backed securities. Consumer asset-backed
securities generally consist of credit card, auto and student loan receivables. Fourteen of our
U.S. broker-dealer clients use our platform to trade asset-backed securities. Trading in
asset-backed securities uses many of the same features available in our U.S. high-grade corporate
bond offering.

Preferred Securities

In November 2010, we introduced trading in preferred securities. Fourteen of our U.S.
broker-dealer clients use our platform to trade preferred securities. Trading in preferred
securities uses many of the same features available in our U.S. high-grade corporate bond offering.

-15-




Information and Analytical Tools

Corporate BondTickerTM

Corporate BondTickerTMprovides real-time FINRA TRACE data and enhances it with
MarketAxess trade data and analytical tools to provide professional market participants with a
comprehensive set of corporate bond price information. The data include trade time and sales
information, including execution prices, as well as MarketAxess-estimated spread-to-Treasuries, for
trades disseminated by the FINRA TRACE system. The data also include actual execution prices and
spread-to-Treasury levels for U.S. high-grade corporate bond trades executed on the MarketAxess
platform.

Corporate BondTickerTMallows institutional investors to search for and sort bonds
based upon specific criteria, such as volume, time/date of transaction, spread change, issuer or
security. This search function allows institutional investors to compile information relating to
potential securities trades in a fraction of the time that it takes to manually compile this
information from disparate sources or other electronic databases, including direct TRACE feeds.
Corporate BondTickerTMalso offers end-of-day CDS pricing data provided by Credit Market
Analysis Ltd. End-of-day screening tools combine the CDS data with market data from cash bonds and
equities to provide relative value analysis to our clients. In addition, Corporate
BondTickerTMprovides independent third-party credit research as well as indicative
prices for secondary markets in loans and CDS.

TRACE facilitates the mandatory reporting of over-the-counter secondary market transactions in
eligible fixed-income securities. All broker-dealers that are FINRA member firms have an obligation
to report transactions in corporate bonds to TRACE under a set of rules approved by the SEC. FINRA then publicly disseminates a portion of this
data, which is available free of charge on a delayed basis through the FINRA website or available
immediately for a set fee.

Corporate BondTickerTMis integrated directly into the MarketAxess electronic
trading platform and can be seamlessly accessed, either when viewing securities inventory or when
launching an inquiry. Corporate BondTickerTMis also available through the Internet for
non-trading professional market participants, including, among others, research analysts and rating
agencies, who can log in and access the information via an easy-to-use browser-based interface.

We provide Corporate BondTickerTMas an ancillary service to our trading clients
and also to other industry participants. We derive revenues from our Corporate
BondTickerTMservice by charging for seat licenses per user at our broker-dealer and
institutional investor clients, through distribution agreements with other information service
providers and through bulk data sales to third parties. Seat license fees are waived for clients
that transact a sufficient volume of trades through MarketAxess.

Additional analytical capabilities of our information services offerings aim to provide
clients with more information regarding bond prices and market activity, including asset swap
spreads, turnover percentage and liquidity ratios. These statistics measure a security’s trading
activity relative to its amount outstanding and relative to the overall market, respectively,
providing an additional perspective on relative liquidity. In addition, we provide pricing measures
to help institutional investors better assess the relative value of a corporate bond, providing
more consistent relative pricing information for institutional investors, such as offering spread
data versus the interest rate swap curve and versus the U.S. Treasury curve. Users are also able to
download a variety of MarketAxess-compiled trade reports containing a comprehensive review of
trading activity. Corporate BondTickerTMis currently the source of corporate bond
trading information forThe Wall Street Journal.

We also offer a comprehensive set of reports designed to review and monitor credit trading
activity for institutional investor clients. It utilizes extensive TRACE information and has a
flexible interface to run and save reports in a variety of formats for both compliance and
management reporting. For example, the best execution report provides a view of the savings
generated by trading on our electronic trading platform and offers a quantitative measure of the
value of price discovery from multiple dealers. The report allows clients to monitor performance
against their own best execution policy. Our compliance product provides a printed history of each
inquiry submitted through the MarketAxess trading platform.

My Portfolio

Institutional investors are able to upload their corporate bond portfolio to our electronic
trading platform utilizing the “My Portfolio” trading feature. Institutional investors who utilize
“My Portfolio” benefit from the ability to automatically match inventory on our platform to bonds
held in their portfolio, allowing them to more efficiently launch an inquiry and transact in these
securities. Users of this feature can also directly access Corporate BondTickerTMto
obtain the trading history of the securities in their portfolio.

-16-




Straight-Through Processing

Straight-through processing refers to the integration of systems and processes to automate the
trade process from end-to-end — trade execution, confirmation and settlement — without the need
for manual intervention. There are two elements of straight-through processing: internal
straight-through processing and external straight-through processing. Internal straight-through
processing relates to the trade and settlement processes that are internal to an industry
participant. For example, in the case of an institutional investor, this includes authorization of
orders, placement of orders with broker-dealers, receipt of execution details and allocation of
trades. External straight-through processing refers to connecting seamlessly to all external
counterparts in the trading and settlement process.

Automation by way of straight-through processing improves efficiency throughout the trade
cycle. We provide broker-dealers and institutional investors with a range of tools that facilitate
straight-through processing, including order upload, easy-to-use online allocation tools and pre-
and post-trade messaging features that enable institutional investors to communicate electronically
between front- and back-office systems, thereby integrating the order, portfolio management and
accounting systems of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients in real time. Our
straight-through processing tools can be customized to meet specific needs of clients. We continue
to build industry partnerships to assist our clients in creating connectivity throughout the trade
cycle. Through these partnerships, we are increasingly providing solutions that can quickly be
deployed within our clients’ trading operations.

Usage of our straight-through processing tools increased significantly during the last several
years. The number of investor client STP connections increased from 134 as of December 31, 2007 to
245 as of December 31, 2010.

Dealer API

We offer Application Programming Interface (“API”) services to our broker-dealer clients for
pre-trade, trade negotiation and post-trade services. This allows for straight-through processing,
which improves efficiency and reduces errors in processing.

Technology Services

Through our Greenline subsidiary, we provide integration, testing and management solutions for
FIX-related products and services. The FIX protocol is a messaging standard developed specifically
for the real-time electronic exchange of securities transaction information. Greenline’s CertiFIX
product enables firms to provide a reliable FIX certification environment for their trading
counterparties. The VeriFIX product is a testing suite that allows firms to thoroughly test
counterparty FIX interfaces, protocol formats and supported messages. Greenline’s MagniFIX product
allows firms to monitor their enterprise-wide FIX installations on a real-time basis. In addition,
Greenline provides strategic consulting and custom development for its clients.

We also provide technology consulting and customized development services to our clients that
leverage our trading technology expertise and our existing technology solutions. Fees for such
services are based on the complexity and extent of the services provided. In addition, we provide
gateway adapters to connect order management and trading systems to fixed-income trading venues.

Sales and Marketing

We promote our products and services using a variety of direct and indirect sales and
marketing strategies. Our sales force is responsible for client acquisition activity and for
increasing use of our platform by our existing clients. Their goal is to train and support existing
and new clients on how to use the system and to educate them as to the benefits of utilizing an
electronic fixed-income trading platform. We employ various strategies, including advertising,
direct marketing, promotional mailings and participation in industry conferences, to increase
awareness of our brand and our electronic trading platform. For example, we have worked withThe
Wall Street Journalto establish Corporate BondTickerTMas the source of information for
its daily corporate bond and high-yield tables.

-17-




Competition

The electronic trading industry is highly competitive and we expect competition to intensify
in the future. We face five main areas of competition:

•Telephone— We compete with bond trading business conducted over the telephone
between broker-dealers and their institutional investor clients. Institutional investors
have historically purchased fixed-income securities by telephoning bond sales
professionals at one or more broker-dealers and inquiring about the price and
availability of individual bonds. This remains the manner in which the majority of
corporate bonds are still traded between institutional investors and broker-dealers.

•E-mail— We compete with bond trading business conducted via e-mail between
broker-dealers and their institutional investor clients. E-mail provides an efficient
means of initiating product and price discovery with a large universe of potential
trading partners.

•Other electronic trading platforms— There are numerous other electronic trading
platforms currently in existence. These include: Thomson TradeWeb, a multi-dealer to
institutional investor trading platform that has historically focused on government bond
trading; Bloomberg, which provides electronic trading functionality; and the New York
Stock Exchange. In addition, some broker-dealers operate proprietary electronic trading
systems that enable institutional investors to trade directly with a broker-dealer over
an electronic medium. We believe that we are currently the only platform primarily
focused on multi-party disclosed trading of credit products between broker-dealers and
institutional investors, though others have sought or may seek to expand their product
offerings to compete in this market. Additionally, as we expand our business into new
products, we will likely come into more direct competition with other electronic trading
platforms or firms offering traditional services.

•Market data and information vendors— Several large market data and information
providers currently have a data and analytics relationship with virtually every
institutional firm. Some of these entities, including Bloomberg, currently offer varying
forms of electronic trading of fixed-income securities, mostly on a single-dealer basis.
Some of these entities have announced their intention to expand their electronic trading
platforms or to develop new platforms. These entities are currently direct competitors
to our information services business and already are or may in the future become direct
competitors to our electronic trading platform.

•Technology vendors— We compete with numerous providers of FIX message management
tools and connectivity solutions. The market for our technology products and services
is fragmented and includes FIX engine providers, testing, monitoring, certification and
professional services firms and in-house technology and development groups at virtually
every institutional firm.

Competitors, including companies in which some of our broker-dealer clients have invested,
have developed electronic trading platforms or have announced their intention to explore the
development of electronic trading platforms that compete or will compete with us. Furthermore, our
broker-dealer clients have made, and may in the future make investments in or enter into agreements
with other businesses that directly or indirectly compete with us.

In general, we compete on the basis of a number of key factors, including:

•broad network of broker-dealer and institutional investor clients using our
electronic trading platform;

•liquidity provided by the participating broker-dealers;

•magnitude and frequency of price improvement;

•enhancing the quality and speed of execution;

•compliance benefits;

-18-




•total transaction costs;

•technology capabilities, including the reliability and ease of use of our electronic
trading platform; and

•range of products and services offered.

We believe that we compete favorably with respect to these factors and continue to proactively
build technology solutions that serve the needs of the credit markets.

Our competitive position is also enhanced by the familiarity and integration of our
broker-dealer and institutional investor clients with our electronic trading platform and other
systems. We have focused on the unique aspects of the credit markets we serve in the development of
our platform, working closely with our clients to provide a system that is suited to their needs.

Our broker-dealer clients have invested in building API’s with us for inventory contributions,
electronic trading, government bond benchmark pricing and post-trade messaging. We believe that we
have successfully built deep roots with our broker-dealer clients, increasing our level of service
to them while at the same time increasing their commitment to our services.

Furthermore, 245 of our institutional investor clients have built interfaces to enable them to
communicate electronically between our platform and their order, portfolio management and
accounting systems. We believe that this increases the reliance of these institutional investor
clients on our services and creates significant competitive barriers to entry.

Technology

The design and quality of our technology products are critical to our growth and our ability
to execute our business strategy. Our electronic trading platform has been designed with secure,
scalable client-server architecture that makes broad use of distributed computing to achieve speed,
reliability and fault tolerance. The platform is built on industry-standard technologies and has
been designed to handle many multiples of our current trading volume.

All critical server-side components, primarily our networks, application servers and
databases, have backup equipment running in the event that the main equipment fails. This offers
fully redundant system capacity to maximize uptime and minimize the potential for loss of
transaction data in the event of an internal failure. We also seek to minimize the impact of
external failures by automatically recovering connections in the event of a communications failure.
The majority of our broker-dealer clients have redundant dedicated high-speed communication paths
to our network in order to provide fast data transfer. Our security measures include
industry-standard communications encryption.

We have designed our application with an easy-to-use, Windows-based interface. Our clients are
able to access our electronic trading platform through a secure, single sign-on. Clients are also
able to execute transactions over our platform directly from their order management systems. We
provide users an automatic software update feature that does not require manual intervention.

Intellectual Property

We rely upon a combination of copyright, patent, trade secret and trademark laws, written
agreements and common law to protect our proprietary technology, processes and other intellectual
property. Our software code, elements of our electronic trading platform, website and other
proprietary materials are protected by copyright laws. We received five patents in 2009 covering
our most significant trading protocols and other aspects of our trading system technology, we
received two additional patents in 2010 and other patents are pending.

The written agreements upon which we rely to protect our proprietary technology, processes and
intellectual property include agreements designed to protect our trade secrets. Examples of these
written agreements include third party nondisclosure agreements, employee nondisclosure and
inventions assignment agreements, and agreements with customers, contractors and strategic
partners. Other written agreements upon which we rely to protect our proprietary technology,
processes and intellectual property take many forms and contain provisions related to patent,
copyright, trademark and trade secret rights.

We have obtained U.S. federal registration of the MarketAxess®name and logo, and
the same mark and logo have been registered in several foreign jurisdictions. We have pending
registrations for the MarketAxess®name and logo in several other foreign jurisdictions.
In addition, we have obtained U.S. federal registration for the marks AutoSpotting®,
BondLink®, FrontPage®, Actives®,
DealerAxess®and associated designs and have a number of other registered
trademarks, service marks and trademark applications. Corporate BondTickerTMis a
trademark we use, but it has not been registered.

-19-




In addition to our efforts to register our intellectual property, we believe that factors such
as the technological and creative skills of our personnel, new product and service developments,
frequent enhancements and reliability with respect to our services are essential to establishing
and maintaining a technology and market leadership position.

Government Regulation

The securities industry and financial markets in the U.S. and elsewhere are subject to
extensive regulation. As a matter of public policy, regulatory bodies in the U.S. and the rest of
the world are charged with safeguarding the integrity of the securities and other financial markets
and with protecting the interests of investors participating in those markets. Our active
broker-dealer subsidiaries fall within the scope of their regulations.

Regulation of the U.S. Securities Industry and Broker-Dealers

In the U.S., the SEC is the governmental agency responsible for the administration of the
federal securities laws. One of our U.S. subsidiaries, MarketAxess Corporation, is registered with
the SEC as a broker-dealer. It is also a member of FINRA, a self-regulatory organization to which
most broker-dealers belong. In addition, MarketAxess Corporation is a member of the Securities
Investor Protection Corporation, which provides certain protection for clients’ accounts in the
event of a liquidation of a broker-dealer to the extent any such accounts are held by the
broker-dealer.

Additionally, MarketAxess Corporation is registered with certain states and the District of
Columbia as a broker-dealer. The individual states and the District of Columbia are responsible for
the administration of their respective “blue sky” laws, rules and regulations.

On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law, marking the greatest change to
financial supervision since the 1930’s. U.S. financial regulators are in the midst of an intense
period of rulemaking that is required to implement the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, and market
participants will need to make strategic decisions in an environment of regulatory uncertainty.
Among the most significant aspects of the derivatives section of the Dodd-Frank Act are mandatory
clearing of certain derivatives transactions (“swaps”) through regulated central clearing
organizations and mandatory trading of those swaps through either regulated exchanges or swap
execution facilities, in each case, subject to certain key exceptions. As with other parts of the
Dodd-Frank Act, many of the details of the new regulatory regime relating to swaps are left to the
regulators to determine through rulemaking. Subject to such rulemaking, we currently expect to establish and
operate a swap execution facility and/or a security-based swap execution facility.

Regulation of the Non-U.S. Securities Industries and Investment Service Providers

The securities industry and financial markets in the U.K., the European Union and elsewhere
are subject to extensive regulation. MarketAxess Europe Limited may fall within the scope of those
regulations depending on the extent to which it is characterized as providing a regulated
investment service.

Our principal regulator in the U.K. is the Financial Services Authority (“FSA”). Our
subsidiary, MarketAxess Europe Limited, is registered as a Multilateral Trading Facility (“MTF”)
dealer with the FSA.

The securities industry in the member states of the European Union is regulated by agencies in
each member state. European Union measures provide for the mutual recognition of regulatory
agencies and of prudential supervision making possible the grant of a single authorization for
providers of investment services, which, in general, is valid throughout the European Union. As an
FSA-approved MTF, MarketAxess Europe Limited receives the benefit of this authorization.

Our Canadian subsidiary, MarketAxess Canada Limited, is registered as an Alternative Trading
System dealer under the Securities Act of Ontario and is a member of the Investment Industry
Regulatory Organization of Canada.

-20-




Employees

As of December 31, 2010, we had 229 employees, 189 of whom were based in the U.S. and 40 of
whom were based outside of the U.S., principally in the U.K. None of our employees is represented
by a labor union. We consider our relationships with our employees to be good and have not
experienced any interruptions of operations due to labor disagreements.

Company Information

Our Internet website address is www.marketaxess.com. Through our Internet website, we will
make available, free of charge, the following reports as soon as reasonably practicable after
electronically filing them with, or furnishing them to, the SEC: our annual report on Form 10-K;
our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q; our current reports on Form 8-K; and amendments to those
reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Our
Proxy Statements for our Annual Meetings are also available through our Internet website. Our
Internet website and the information contained therein or connected thereto are not intended to be
incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. You may also obtain copies of our reports
without charge by writing to:

MarketAxess Holdings Inc.299 Park AvenueNew York, NY 10171Attn: Investor Relations

Our Board of Directors has standing Audit, Compensation, Investment, and Nominating and
Corporate Governance Committees. Each of these committees has a written charter approved by our
Board of Directors. Our Board of Directors has also adopted a set of Corporate Governance
Guidelines. Copies of each committee charter, along with the Corporate Governance Guidelines, are
also posted on our website.

You may read and copy any document we file with the SEC at the SEC’s public reference room at
100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for
information on the public reference room. The SEC maintains an Internet website that contains
annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and information statements and other information that
issuers (including the Company) file electronically with the SEC. The SEC’s internet website is
www.sec.gov.

We have obtained federal registration of the MarketAxess®name and logo, as well as for the
marks Auto-Spotting®, BondLink®, Actives®, FrontPage®and DealerAxess®. We also have a number of
other registered trademarks, service mark applications and trademark applications. Other
trademarks and service marks appearing in this annual report on Form 10-K are the property of their
respective holders.

-21-






