Item 1.Business.

MarketAxess Holdings Inc. (the “Company” or “MarketAxess”) operates a leading electronic trading
platform that allows investment industry professionals to efficiently trade corporate bonds and other types of fixed-income instruments. Our approximately 1,000 active institutional investor clients (firms that executed at least one trade in U.S. or
European fixed-income securities through our electronic trading platform during 2012) include investment advisers, mutual funds, insurance companies, public and private pension funds, bank portfolios, broker-dealers and hedge funds. Our 87
broker-dealer market-maker clients provide liquidity on the platform and include most of the leading broker-dealers in global fixed-income trading. Through our Corporate BondTickerTMservice, we provide fixed-income market data, analytics and compliance tools that help our clients make trading
decisions. In addition, we provide FIX (Financial Information eXchange) message management tools, connectivity solutions and ancillary technology services that facilitate the electronic communication of order information between trading
counterparties. Our revenues are primarily generated from the trading of U.S. high-grade corporate bonds.

Our multi-dealer
trading platform allows our institutional investor clients to simultaneously request competing, executable bids or offers from our broker-dealer clients and execute trades with the broker-dealer of their choice from among those that choose to
respond. We offer our broker-dealer clients a solution that enables them to efficiently reach our institutional investor clients for the distribution and trading of bonds. In addition to U.S. high-grade corporate bonds, European high-grade corporate
bonds and emerging markets bonds, including both investment-grade and non-investment grade debt, we also offer our clients the ability to trade crossover and high-yield bonds, agency bonds, asset-backed and preferred securities and credit default
swaps (“CDS”).

The majority of our revenues are derived from monthly distribution fees and commissions for trades
executed on our platform that are billed to our broker-dealer clients on a monthly basis. We also derive revenues from technology products and services, information and user access fees, investment income and other income. Our expenses consist of
employee compensation and benefits, depreciation and amortization, technology and communication costs, professional and consulting fees, occupancy, marketing and advertising and general and administrative expenses.

Traditionally, bond trading has been a manual process, with product and price discovery conducted over the telephone between two or more
parties. This traditional process has a number of shortcomings resulting primarily from the lack of a central trading facility for these securities, which creates difficulty matching buyers and sellers for particular issues. Many corporate bond
trading participants use e-mail and other electronic means of communication for trading corporate bonds. While this has addressed some of the shortcomings associated with traditional corporate bond trading, we believe that the process is still
hindered by limited liquidity, limited price transparency, significant transaction costs, compliance and regulatory challenges, and difficulty in executing numerous trades at one time.

Through our disclosed multi-dealer Request For Quote (“RFQ”) trading functionality, our institutional
investor clients can determine prices available for a security, a process called price discovery, as well as trade securities directly with our broker-dealer clients. The price discovery process includes the ability to view indicative prices from
the broker-dealer clients’ inventory available on our platform, access to real-time pricing information and analytical tools (including spread-to-Treasury data, search capabilities and independent third-party credit research) available on our
Corporate BondTickerTMservice and the ability to request
executable bids and offers simultaneously from up to 58 of our broker-dealer clients during the trade process. On average, institutional investor clients receive several bids or offers from broker-dealer clients in response to trade inquiries.
However, some trade inquiries may not receive any bids or offers.



-3-




Our services relating to trade execution include single and multiple-dealer inquiries; list
trading, which is the ability to request bids and offers on multiple bonds at the same time; and swap trading, which is the ability to request an offer to purchase one bond and a bid to sell another bond, in a manner such that the two trades will be
executed simultaneously, with payment based on the price differential of the bonds. Once a trade is completed on our platform, the broker-dealer client and institutional investor client may settle the trade with the assistance of our automated
post-trade messaging, which facilitates the communication of trade acknowledgment and allocation information between our institutional investor and broker-dealer clients.

Typically, we are not a party to the trades that occur on our platform between institutional investor clients and broker-dealer clients; rather, we serve as an intermediary between broker-dealers and
institutional investors, enabling them to meet, agree on a price and then transact with each other. However, we also execute certain bond transactions between and among institutional investor and broker-dealer clients on a riskless principal basis
by serving as counterparty to both the buyer and the seller in matching back-to-back trades, which are then settled through a third-party clearing organization.

Our broker-dealer clients accounted for approximately 95% of the underwriting of newly-issued U.S. corporate bonds and approximately 72% of the underwriting of newly issued European corporate bonds in
2012. We believe these broker-dealers also represent the principal source of secondary market liquidity in the other markets in which we operate. Secondary market liquidity refers to the ability of market participants to buy or sell a security
quickly and in large volume subsequent to the original issuance of the security, without substantially affecting the price of the security. In addition to trading fixed-income securities by traditional means, including the telephone and e-mail, our
broker-dealer clients use proprietary single-dealer systems and other trading platforms as well as our electronic trading platform. We believe that the traditional means of trading remain the manner in which the majority of bonds are traded between
institutional investors and broker-dealers.

Our volume in U.S. high-grade corporate bonds represented approximately 12.4% of
the total U.S. high-grade corporate bond volume, excluding convertible bonds, for 2012, as reported by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”) Trade Reporting and Compliance Engine (“TRACE”), which includes
inter-dealer and retail trading as well as trading between institutional investors and broker-dealers.

On October 26,
2012, we entered into an agreement to acquire all of the outstanding shares of Xtrakter Limited (“Xtrakter”) from Euroclear S.A./N.V. Xtrakter is a U.K.-based provider of regulatory transaction reporting, financial market data and trade
matching services to the European securities markets. The acquisition of Xtrakter will provide us with an expanded set of technology solutions ahead of incoming regulatory mandates in Europe.

The aggregate purchase price is £26.0 million (approximately $40.5 million) in cash, plus transaction costs, and is subject to
a post-closing adjustment based on the net working capital of Xtrakter on the closing date. The purchase price will be funded from available cash on hand. We received Financial Service Authority (“FSA”) approval of the change in control on
February 18, 2013 and expect to complete the acquisition of Xtrakter on or about February 28, 2013.

Industry Background

Fixed-income securities are issued by corporations, governments and other entities, and pay a pre-set absolute or relative rate of return.
As of September 30, 2012, the most recent date available, there were approximately $37.7 trillion principal amount of fixed-income securities outstanding in the U.S. market, including $8.6 trillion principal amount of U.S. corporate bonds,
according to the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association (“SIFMA”). The estimated average daily trading volume of U.S. corporate bonds (investment grade and high-yield), as measured by TRACE, was $16.3 billion in 2012.

The U.S. and European credit markets experienced a period of significant turmoil beginning during the third quarter of 2007,
especially in short-term funding and floating rate note instruments. A widespread retrenchment in the credit markets resulted in increased credit spreads and significantly higher credit spread volatility across a wide range of asset
classes. The U.S. credit markets demonstrated significant improvement since 2008. In addition, primary dealer holdings of corporate bonds due in more than one year as reported by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York declined from approximately
$218 billion as of December 31, 2007 to $57 billion as of December 31, 2012. The trading volume of U.S. high-grade corporate bonds as reported by TRACE has remained approximately $2.9 trillion for each of the four calendar years in the
period ended December 31, 2012, after declining to $2.0 trillion for the year ended December 31, 2008. After demonstrating improved conditions during 2009, the European credit markets have deteriorated due in part to continuing sovereign
debt credit concerns.



-4-




U.S. High-Grade Corporate Bond Market

The U.S. corporate bond market consists of three broad categories of securities: investment-grade debt (so-called “high-grade”),
which typically refers to debt rated BBB- or better by Standard & Poor’s or Baa3 or better by Moody’s Investor Service; debt rated below investment-grade (so-called “high-yield”), which typically refers to debt rated
lower than BBB- by Standard & Poor’s or Baa3 by Moody’s Investor Service; and debt convertible into equity (so-called “convertible debt”). We use the terms high-grade debt and investment-grade debt interchangeably in
this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

The U.S. high-grade corporate bond market, which represents the largest subset of the U.S.
corporate bond market, has undergone significant change over the last decade, which has been driven by a number of factors, including:



•Improved price transparency— In 2002, FINRA adopted TRACE reporting, which requires FINRA members to report secondary market transactions
in certain fixed-income securities to FINRA. The list of TRACE-eligible bonds includes 30,000 unique securities, representing the majority of the daily trading volume of high-grade bonds.



•Introduction of electronic trading platforms— Electronic trading platforms act as central facilities to bring together buyers and sellers.
The actions of participants on these platforms are facilitated by an electronic medium that improves some of the manual processes that might otherwise be required, such as searching for securities with specific characteristics, the coordination of
multiple bilateral telephone calls or electronic communications, the sorting and analysis of competing bids or offers, and the entry of orders into the trading system after verbal or e-mail trade agreement. As a result, these platforms typically
provide a lower-cost and more efficient means of enhanced distribution and trade execution than previously possible.



•Introduction of credit derivatives— Credit derivatives can provide increased flexibility and liquidity for investors and lenders to
diversify their credit exposures. The notional amount of outstanding CDS transactions grew rapidly between 2002 and 2007. However, activity in the CDS market has since fallen substantially due to concern over the risks associated with these
products, in particular the counterparty credit risks, and uncertainty regarding the effect of changes to the market resulting from implementation of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”),
which was enacted during 2010.



•Total amount of debt issued— High-grade corporate bond issuance of $664 billion during 2008 was 33% below the 2007 level, as risk aversion
among corporate bond investors limited the ability of issuers across a wide range of industries, in particular those in the financial services industry, to issue new corporate bonds. New issues of high-grade corporate bonds were relatively stable
over the three years ended December 31, 2011. U.S. high-grade issuance exceeded $1.0 trillion in 2012.







-5-




European High-Grade Corporate Bond Market

The European high-grade corporate bond market consists of a broad range of products, issuers and currencies. We define the European
high-grade corporate bond market generally to consist of bonds intended to be distributed to European investors, primarily bonds issued by European corporations, excluding bonds that are issued by corporations domiciled in an emerging markets
country and excluding most government bonds that trade in Europe. Examples include:



•bonds issued by European corporations, denominated in any currency;



•bonds generally denominated in Euros, U.S. dollars or Pounds Sterling, excluding bonds that are issued by corporations domiciled in an emerging market;



•bonds issued by supra-national organizations (entities that include a number of central banks or government financial authorities, such as the World
Bank), agencies and governments located in Europe, generally denominated in Euros, U.S. dollars or Pounds Sterling, provided that such currency is not the currency of the country where the bond was issued; and



•floating-rate notes issued by European corporations.

We believe that the European high-grade corporate bond market is impacted by many of the same factors as the U.S. high-grade corporate bond market. In addition, we believe the following factors are unique
to the European high-grade corporate bond market:



•Sovereign credit issues—The global financial crisis has led to a significant rise in sovereign debt relative to GDP. Increased government
deficits and debt levels along with ratings downgrades continue to spark fears of default among Euro zone nations, leading to increased yields on government bonds, making a more difficult trading environment for European corporate bonds.



•Common liquidity pool— The larger capital pool created by the common currency and changes in the regulatory environment have facilitated
bond issuance by European corporations.

Emerging Markets Bond Market

We define the emerging markets bond market generally to include U.S. dollar, Euro or local currency denominated bonds issued by sovereign
entities or corporations domiciled in a developing country. These issuers are typically located in Latin America, Asia, or Central and Eastern Europe. Examples of countries we classify as emerging markets include: Argentina, Brazil, Colombia,
Mexico, Peru, the Philippines, Russia, Turkey and Venezuela.

The institutional investor base for emerging markets bonds
includes many crossover investors from the high-yield and high-grade investment areas. Institutional investors have been drawn to emerging markets bonds by their high returns and high growth potential. The average daily trading volume of emerging
markets external and local markets debt as reported by the Emerging Markets Trade Association for the quarter ended September 30, 2012 was $6.8 billion and $14.0 billion, respectively.

Crossover and High-Yield Bond Market

We define the high-yield bond market generally to include all debt rated lower than BBB- by Standard & Poor’s or Baa3 by Moody’s Investor Service. We define the crossover market to
include any debt issue rated below investment grade by one agency but investment grade by the other. The total amount of high-yield corporate bonds yearly issuance as reported by SIFMA declined by 68% to $43.0 billion during 2008 from $136.0 billion
in 2007, primarily due to the risk aversion among corporate bond investors that severely limited the ability of high-yield issuers to raise new debt. The high-yield corporate bond markets demonstrated significant improvement beginning in 2009, with
new issuance for the year ended December 31, 2012 increasing to $328.7 billion as reported by SIFMA.

FINRA publicly
disseminates real-time price information on over 5,000 high-yield corporate bond issues and disseminates price information about certain other transactions on a delayed basis. Trades in bonds rated BB and lower are subject to immediate dissemination
if the trade size is less than $1 million, or greater than $1 million and the bond trades an average of once or more a day.



-6-




The average daily trading volume of high-yield bonds as measured by TRACE for the year ended December 31, 2012 was approximately $4.3 billion.

Agency Bond Market

We define the agency bond market to include debt issued by a U.S. government-sponsored enterprise. Some prominent issuers of agency bonds are the Federal National Mortgage Association (“Fannie
Mae”) and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (“Freddie Mac”). The total amount of U.S. agency bonds outstanding was approximately $2.4 trillion as of December 31, 2012 as reported by SIFMA. The average daily trading volume of
agency bonds (excluding mortgage-backed securities) as measured by TRACE for the year ended December 31, 2012 was approximately $10.8 billion.

Credit Default Swap Market

Although the European regulators have not yet introduced legislation concerning regulation of the European derivatives markets, the
European Parliament and the EU Council of Ministers endorsed an agreement that will, among other things, require central clearing of standardized OTC derivatives and the reporting of all derivatives (OTC or otherwise) to trade repositories. However,
it is not yet clear whether there will be any requirement in the EU to trade standardized derivative contracts on regulated exchanges or trading platforms.

Asset-Backed Securities

Asset-backed securities are ownership
interests in a pool of receivables sold by originators into a special purpose vehicle. These securities are typically secured by pools of homogeneous assets with relatively predictable cash flows. The assets are legally separated from the seller,
which limits the investor’s exposure to the credit quality of the seller. In 2012, approximately $180.0 billion in U.S. consumer-based asset-backed securities (defined as including auto, credit cards, equipment and student loans) and non-agency
residential and commercial mortgage-backed securities were issued. New issuance declined from over $1.0 trillion in 2007 as the asset-backed securities market was significantly impacted by the credit and housing market crisis. The total amount of
consumer-based asset-backed and non-agency residential and commercial mortgage-backed securities outstanding at December 31, 2012 was $2.5 trillion, as reported by SIFMA.

Preferred Securities

Preferred securities are equity ownership
securities that carry additional rights above and beyond those conferred by common shares. The additional rights typically include preference in dividends and seniority in assets vis-à-vis common stock in the event of liquidation. Other
typical features include convertibility into common stock, callable at the option of the corporation and no voting rights.



-7-




Our Competitive Strengths

Our electronic trading platform provides solutions to some of the shortcomings of traditional bond trading methods. The benefits of our solution are demonstrable throughout the trading cycle:



•Pre-trade— gathering real-time and historical pricing information, identifying interested buyers and sellers in a particular security, and
obtaining research and analysis;



•Trade— single and multiple security trade execution; and



•Post-trade— trade detail matching, account allocation and automated audit trail.

We believe that we are well positioned to strengthen our market position in electronic trading in our existing products and to extend our
presence into new products and services by capitalizing on our competitive strengths, including:

Significant Trading
Volumes with Participation by Leading Broker-Dealers and Institutional Investors

Our electronic trading platform
provides access to the liquidity provided through the participation on our platform of 87 broker-dealer market-making clients, including substantially all of the leading broker-dealers in global fixed-income trading, and approximately 1,000 active
institutional investor firms. We believe these broker-dealers represent the principal source of secondary market liquidity for U.S. high-grade corporate bonds, European high-grade corporate bonds, emerging markets bonds and the other markets in
which we operate. Our broker-dealer clients are motivated to continue to utilize our platform due to the presence on the platform of our large network of institutional investor clients. We believe that our net addition of 38 new broker-dealer
market-making clients since the third quarter of 2008 has improved and will continue to improve the liquidity on our electronic trading platform for institutional investors, further motivating them to use our platform. The number of our active
institutional investor clients for the past five years has been as follows:







-8-




Our total trading volume increased from $226.4 billion in 2008 to $589.6 billion in 2012. We
believe that our trading volumes in 2008 and 2009 reflect the turmoil and resultant lack of liquidity in the credit markets beginning in the third quarter of 2007. Our total trading volume over the past five years is indicated below:





Our volume in U.S. high-grade corporate bonds was approximately 6.6% of total U.S. high-grade
corporate bond volume, excluding convertible bonds, in 2008 as reported by TRACE, which includes inter-dealer and retail trading as well as trading between institutional investors and broker-dealers. Following the credit market turmoil, our
estimated market share declined to approximately 6.2% for the full year 2009. Our estimated share of total U.S. high-grade corporate bond volume for 2012 was approximately 12.4%, double the estimated market share in 2009, due in part to improved
U.S. credit market conditions, increased client order flow and higher order execution rates. Our estimated market share from 2008 to 2012 is shown in the chart below:







-9-




Execution Benefits to Clients

Benefits to Institutional Investor Clients

We believe we provide numerous benefits to our institutional investor clients over traditional fixed-income trading methods, including:

Competitive Prices.By enabling institutional investors to simultaneously request bids or offers from our broker-dealer clients, we
believe our electronic trading platform creates an environment that motivates our broker-dealer clients to provide competitive prices and gives institutional investors confidence that they are obtaining a competitive price. For typical MarketAxess
multi-dealer corporate bond inquiries, the range of competitive spread-to-Treasury responses is, on average, approximately 10 basis points (a basis point is 1/100 of 1% in yield). As an example of the potential cost savings to institutional
investors, a one basis point savings on a $1 million face amount trade of a bond with 10 years to maturity translates to aggregate savings of approximately $800.00.

Transparent Pricing on a Range of Securities.The commingled multi-dealer inventory of bonds posted by our broker-dealer clients on our platform consists of a daily average of more than $45 billion
in indicative bids and offers. Subject to applicable regulatory requirements, institutional investors can search bonds in inventory based on any combination of issuer, issue, rating, maturity, spread-to-Treasury, size and dealer providing the
listing, in a fraction of the time it takes to do so manually. Institutional investor clients can also request executable bids and offers on our electronic trading platform on any debt security in a database of U.S. and European corporate bonds,
although there can be no assurance as to the number of broker-dealers who will choose to provide an executable price. Our platform transmits bid and offer requests in real-time to broker-dealer clients, who may respond with executable prices within
the time period specified by the institutional investor. Institutional investors may also elect to display live requests for bids or offers anonymously to all other users of our electronic trading platform, in order to create broader visibility of
their inquiry among market participants and increase the likelihood that the request results in a trade. We believe that broader participation in client inquiries will result in more trade matches and lower transaction costs.

Improved Cost Efficiency.We believe that we provide improved efficiency by reducing the time and labor
required to conduct broad product and price discovery. Single-security and multi-security (bid or offer lists) inquiries can be efficiently conducted with multiple broker-dealers. In addition, our Corporate BondTickerTMeliminates the need for manually-intensive phone calls or e-mail
communication to gather, sort and analyze information concerning historical transaction prices.

Benefits to Broker-Dealer
Clients

We also provide substantial benefits to our broker-dealer clients over traditional fixed-income trading methods,
including:

Greater Sales Efficiency.We offer our broker-dealer clients broad connectivity with our institutional
investor clients. Through this connectivity, our broker-dealer clients are able to efficiently display their indications of interest to buy and sell various securities. We also enable broker-dealers to broaden their distribution by participating in
transactions to which they otherwise may not have had access. In addition, the ability to post prices and electronically execute on straightforward trades enables bond sales professionals at broker-dealer firms to focus their efforts on more
profitable activities, such as higher value-added trades and more complex transactions.

More Efficient Inventory
Management.The posting of inventory to, and the ability to respond to inquiries from, a broad pool of institutional investors, creates an increased opportunity for broker-dealers to identify demand for their inventory, particularly in less
liquid securities. As a result, we believe they can achieve enhanced bond inventory turnover, which may limit credit exposure.

Benefits to Both Institutional Investor and Broker-Dealer Clients

We offer additional benefits over traditional fixed-income trading methods that are shared by both institutional investor and
broker-dealer clients, including:

Greater Trading Accuracy.Our electronic trading platform includes verification
mechanisms at various stages of the execution process which result in greater accuracy in the processing, confirming and clearing of trades between institutional investor and broker-dealer clients. These verification mechanisms are designed to
ensure that our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients are sending accurate trade messages by providing multiple opportunities to verify they are trading the correct bond, at the agreed-upon price and size. Our platform assists our
institutional investor clients in automating the transmittal of order tickets from the portfolio manager to the trader, and from the trader to back-office personnel. This automation provides more timely execution and a reduction in the likelihood of
errors that can result from manual entry of information into different systems.



-10-




Efficient Risk Monitoring and Compliance.Institutional investors and their
regulators are increasingly focused on ensuring that best execution is achieved for fixed-income trades. Our electronic trading platform offers both institutional investors and broker-dealers an automated audit trail for each stage in the trading
cycle. This enables compliance personnel to review information relating to trades more easily and with greater reliability. Trade information including time, price and spread-to-Treasury is stored securely and automatically on our electronic trading
platform. This data represents a valuable source of information for our clients’ compliance personnel. Importantly, we believe the automated audit trail, together with the competitive pricing that is a feature of our electronic trading
platform, gives fiduciaries the ability to demonstrate that they have achieved best execution on behalf of their clients.

Other Service Offerings

In addition to services directly related to the execution of trades, we offer our clients several other services, including:

Information Services.The information and analytical tools we provide to our clients help them make investment
and trading decisions. Our Corporate BondTickerTMprovides
access to real-time and historical price, yield and MarketAxess estimated spread-to-Treasuries for publicly disseminated TRACE-eligible bonds. Corporate BondTickerTMcombines publicly-available TRACE data with the prices for trades executed on our U.S. high-grade electronic trading
platform, integrating the two data sources and providing real-time TRACE data with associated analytical tools that are not otherwise available. Our electronic trading platform allows institutional investors to compile, sort and use information to
discover investment opportunities that might have been difficult or impossible to identify using a manual information-gathering process or other electronic services.

We offer a comprehensive set of reports designed to review and monitor credit trading activity for institutional investor clients. These reports utilize extensive TRACE information and are accessible by
means of a flexible interface to run and save reports in a variety of formats for both compliance and management reporting. For example, the best execution report provides a view of the savings generated by trading on our electronic trading platform
and offers a quantitative measure of the value of price discovery from multiple dealers. The report allows clients to monitor performance against their own best execution policy. Our compliance product provides a printed history of each inquiry
submitted through the MarketAxess trading platform.

Straight-Through Processing.Straight-through processing
(“STP”) refers to the integration of systems and processes to automate the trade process from end-to-end — trade execution, confirmation and settlement — without the need for manual intervention. Our electronic trading platform
provides broker-dealers and institutional investors with the ability to automate portions of their transaction processing requirements, improving accuracy and efficiency. Through electronic messaging, institutional investors can submit inquiries to,
and receive electronic notices of execution from us, in industry standard protocols, complete with all relevant trade details. Institutional investors can download trade messages, allocate trades to the sub-accounts on whose behalf the trades were
made and send the allocations to broker-dealers for confirmation.

Technology Products and Services.We provide
integration, testing and management solutions for FIX-related products and services designed to optimize the electronic trading of fixed-income, equity and other exchange-based products. We also provide technology consulting and customized
development services to our clients that leverage our trading technology expertise and our existing technology solutions. In addition, we provide gateway adapters to connect order management and trading systems to fixed-income trading venues.

Robust, Scalable Technology

We have developed proprietary technology that is highly secure, fault-tolerant and provides adequate capacity for our current operations, as well as for substantial growth. Our highly scalable systems are
designed to accommodate additional volume, products and clients with relatively little modification and low incremental costs.

Proven Innovator with an Experienced Management Team

Since our inception, we have been an innovator in the fixed-income securities markets. The members of our management team average more
than 20 years of experience in the securities industry. We have consistently sought to benefit participants in the markets we serve by attempting to replicate the essential features of fixed-income trading, including the existing relationships
between broker-dealers and their institutional investor clients, while applying technology to eliminate weaknesses in traditional trading methods. In 2012, MarketAxess was named “Best OTC Derivatives Platform” in Wall Street Letter’s
Annual Institutional Trading, and was listed among Risk magazine’s “25 Firms of the Future.” Most recently, MarketAxess was recognized as one of the “100 Fastest Growing Companies” by Fortune.



-11-




Some of the innovations we have introduced to electronic trading include:



•the first multi-dealer disclosed trading platform for U.S. high-grade corporate bonds;



•the first electronic Treasury benchmarking for U.S. high-grade corporate bond trades;



•Corporate
BondTickerTM, our information services product, combining
TRACE bond data with MarketAxess data and analytical tools;



•bid and offer list technology for corporate bond trading, enabling institutional investors to request executable prices for multiple securities
simultaneously;



•the first disclosed client to multi-dealer trading platform for CDS indices; and



•public Market Lists for corporate bonds, giving institutional investors the ability to display their bid and offer lists anonymously to the entire
MarketAxess trading community.

Our Strategy

Our objective is to provide the leading global electronic trading platform for fixed-income securities, connecting broker-dealers and institutional investors more easily and efficiently, while offering a
broad array of information, trading and technology services to market participants across the trading cycle. The key elements of our strategy are:

Enhance the Liquidity of Securities Traded on Our Platform and Broaden Our Client Base in Our Existing Markets

We intend to further enhance the liquidity of securities traded on our leading electronic, multi-dealer to client fixed-income platform. Our ability to innovate and efficiently add new functionality and
product offerings to the MarketAxess platform will help us deepen our market share with our existing clients, as well as expand our client base, which we believe will, in turn, lead to even further increases in the liquidity of the securities
provided by our broker-dealer clients and available on our platform. We will seek to increase the amount of cross-regional activity by our institutional investor clients on our electronic trading platform, subject to regulatory requirements.

Leverage our Existing Technology and Client Relationships to Expand into New Sectors of the Fixed-Income Securities
Market

We intend to leverage our technology, as well as our strong broker-dealer and institutional investor
relationships, to deploy our electronic trading platform into additional product segments within the fixed-income securities markets and deliver fixed-income securities-related technical services and products. Due in part to our highly scalable
systems, we believe we will be able to enter new markets efficiently. As an example, we have developed technology and trading protocols to trade CDS in anticipation of implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act and, subject to such rulemaking, we
currently expect to establish and operate a swap execution facility and/or a security-based swap execution facility.

Leverage our Existing Technology and Client Relationships to Expand into New Client Segments

We intend to leverage our technology and client relationships to deploy our electronic trading platform into new client segments. As an
example, we have expanded the base of broker-dealers on our platform to include both regional and diversity dealers.

Continue to Strengthen and Expand our Trade-Related Service Offerings

We plan to continue building our existing service offerings so that our electronic trading platform is more fully integrated into the
workflow of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients. We also plan to continue to add functionality to enhance the ability of our clients to achieve a fully automated, end-to-end straight-through processing solution (automation from
trade initiation to settlement). We are continually considering the introduction of new trading techniques.



-12-




Expand our Data and Information Services Offerings

We regularly add new content and analytical capabilities to Corporate BondTickerTMin order to improve the value of the information we provide to our
clients. We intend to continue to widen the user base of our data products and to continue adding new content and analytical capabilities. As the use of our electronic trading platform continues to grow, we believe that the amount and value of our
proprietary trading data will also increase, further enhancing the value of our information services offerings to our clients.

Expand our Technology Services Offerings

We intend to leverage our technology expertise and our client relationships to provide technology solutions to our clients that enhance their electronic trading capabilities and facilitate the electronic
communication of order information with their trading counterparties.

Pursue Select Acquisitions and Strategic
Alliances

We plan to continue to increase and supplement our internal growth by entering into strategic alliances, or
acquiring businesses or technologies, that will enable us to enter new markets, provide new products or services, or otherwise enhance the value of our platform to our clients.

On October 26, 2012, we entered into an agreement to acquire all of the outstanding shares of Xtrakter from Euroclear S.A./N.V.
Xtrakter is a U.K.-based provider of regulatory transaction reporting, financial market data and trade matching services to the European securities markets. The acquisition of Xtrakter will provide us with an expanded set of technology solutions
ahead of incoming regulatory mandates in Europe.

MarketAxess Electronic Trading Platform

Key Trading Functionalities

The key trading functionalities are detailed below.

Single Inquiry Trading
Functionality

We currently offer institutional investors the ability to request bids or offers in a single inquiry from an
unlimited number of our broker-dealer clients for U.S. high-grade corporate bonds, from up to six of our broker-dealer clients for European high-grade corporate bonds and from up to 12 of our broker-dealer clients in emerging markets bonds.
Institutional investors can obtain bids or offers on any security posted in inventory or included in the database available on our platform.

ASAP and Holding Bin Trading Functionalities

We provide both ASAP
(“as soon as possible”) and Holding Bin trading protocols. In the Holding Bin trading protocol, institutional investor clients set the time when they would like all of the broker-dealers’ prices or spreads returned to them, in order
to have the ability to see all executable prices available at the same time. In the ASAP trading protocol, institutional investor clients see each broker-dealer’s price or spread as soon as it is entered by the broker-dealer.

List Trading Functionality

We currently offer institutional investors the ability to request bids or offers on a list of up to 40 bonds depending on the market. This facilitates efficient trading for institutional investors such as
investment advisors, mutual funds and hedge funds. Institutional investors are able to have multiple lists executable throughout the trading day, enabling them to manage their daily cash flows, portfolio duration, and credit and sector exposure.



-13-




Swap Trading Functionality

We currently offer institutional investors the ability to request an offer to purchase one bond and a bid to sell another bond, in a
manner such that the two trades will be executed simultaneously, with payment based on the price or yield differential of the securities.

Market Lists

We offer institutional investors the ability to display live
requests for bids and offers anonymously to the entire MarketAxess trading community through our Market List functionality, thereby creating broader visibility of their inquiry among market participants and increasing the likelihood that the request
results in a trade.

Inventory and Axes

The price discovery process includes the ability to view indications of interest from both broker-dealer clients and, beginning in 2012, institutional investor clients inventory on our platform. Through
the aggregated indication of interest inventory, clients can search for bonds of interest and engage in electronic transactions.

Click-to-Trade

We have enhanced our trading system to provide pre-trade
price discovery and fast-track execution for European bonds. Click-to-trade functionality streams attributable pricing in European credit and rates instruments, submitted by our pool of European dealers. Investor clients are able to initiate an
inquiry with a single click on the stacks of distinctly displayed dealer bids and offers. Click-to-trade is offered alongside our existing Request for Quote product. Although currently limited to European credit and rate instruments, click-to-trade
functionality may be applied to trading of other market sectors.

Central Limit Order Book

We have offered central limit order book (“CLOB”) style trading for bonds and CDS in the past. While the characteristics of the
corporate bond market have not been conducive to continuous trading (as in equity markets), we believe there is a sub-set of actively traded bonds and CDS that could benefit from CLOB trading. We expect to re-introduce CLOB trading in 2013.

Client-to-Dealer Trading

U.S. High-Grade Corporate Bonds

Our U.S. high-grade corporate bond
business consists of U.S. dollar-denominated investment-grade debt issued by corporations for distribution in the U.S. Both domestic and foreign institutional investors have access to U.S. high-grade corporate bond trading on our electronic trading
platform. Our 2012 trading volume in the U.S. high-grade corporate bond market was $367.7 billion.

In the U.S. high-grade
corporate bond market, 58 broker-dealers utilize our platform, including all of the top 20 broker-dealers as ranked by 2012 U.S. corporate bond new-issue underwriting volume. Our broker-dealer clients accounted for approximately 95% of the
underwriting of newly-issued U.S. corporate bonds in 2012.

We offer our institutional investor clients access to a broad
inventory of U.S. high-grade corporate bonds, which is provided and updated daily by our broker-dealer clients. Our electronic trading platform allows institutional investors to view bids and offers from one or more of our broker-dealer clients
while permitting each party to know the identity of its counter-party throughout the trading process. Our disclosed inquiry trading functionality combines the strength of existing offline client/dealer relationships with the efficiency and
transparency of an electronic trading platform. This enables institutional investors to instantly direct trade inquiries and negotiations to their traditional broker-dealer or to any of the substantial majority of the world’s leading
broker-dealers who provide liquidity in these securities. Through our Market List functionality, we also offer institutional investors the ability to display their live requests for bid and offer lists anonymously to the entire MarketAxess trading
community as a means of creating broader visibility of their inquiry among market participants and increasing the likelihood that the request results in a trade.



-14-




Institutional investors have access to the commingled inventory of our broker-dealer
clients, representing indicative bids and offers. Each line item of inventory represents an indicative bid and/or offer on a particular bond issue by a particular broker-dealer client. Institutional investor clients are not restricted to trading
only the bonds posted as inventory, although many of the trades conducted on our platform are made from the posted inventory. To transact in a specific bond that does not appear in inventory, institutional investors can easily search our database
and submit an online inquiry to their chosen broker-dealers, who can respond with live, executable prices. While, on average, institutional investor clients receive several bids or offers from broker-dealers in response to trade inquiries, some
inquiries may not receive any bids or offers.

Eurobonds

MarketAxess Europe Limited, our wholly-owned U.K. subsidiary, offers European secondary trading functionality in U.S. dollar- and
Euro-denominated European corporate bonds to our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients. We also offer our clients the ability to trade in other European high-grade corporate bonds, including bonds issued in Pounds Sterling, floating rate
notes, European government bonds and bonds denominated in non-core currencies. We offered the first platform in Europe with a multi-dealer disclosed counterparty trading capability for corporate bonds. In 2009, MarketAxess Europe Limited received
FSA regulatory approval to trade on a riskless principal basis. In 2010, we launched a click-to-trade protocol for the European market.

In the Eurobond credit market, defined as including European high-grade, high-yield and government bonds, 23 broker-dealers utilize our platform, including 17 of the top 20 broker-dealers as ranked by
2012 European corporate new-issue underwriting volume. On a typical day, institutional investors on our European corporate bond trading platform have access to over 120,000 lines of streaming pre-trade price indications on over 14,000 individual
instruments covered on both the bid and offer side of the market. In a single inquiry, institutional investors can request bids or offers from up to six of the broker-dealers who participate on the European platform. While many of the trades
conducted on our platform are made from the posted inventory, institutional investor clients are not restricted to trading only the bonds posted as inventory. To transact in a specific bond that does not appear in inventory, institutional investors
can easily search our database and submit an online inquiry to their chosen broker-dealers, who can respond with live, executable prices. While, on average, institutional investor clients receive several bids or offers from broker-dealers in
response to trade inquiries, some inquiries may not receive any bids or offers. Our 2012 trading volume in the Eurobond market was $34.5 billion.

Emerging Markets Bonds

Fifty-nine of our U.S. broker-dealer clients use
our platform to trade emerging markets bonds. Four hundred ninety-three active institutional investor clients utilized our electronic trading platform to trade emerging markets bonds in 2012. These institutional investor clients are predominantly
located in the U.S. and Europe. The emerging markets countries whose bonds were most frequently traded on our platform in 2012 were Brazil, Mexico, Venezuela, Russia and Argentina.

We also allow our institutional investor clients to transact Euroclear-eligible local currency denominated bonds issued by sovereign
entities or corporations in countries that include Argentina, Brazil and Mexico.

Crossover and High-Yield Bonds

Fifty-nine of our U.S. broker-dealer clients use our platform to trade crossover and high-yield bonds. Trading in
crossover and high-yield bonds uses many of the same features available in our U.S. high-grade corporate bond offering.

Agency Bonds

Forty-one of our U.S. broker-dealer clients use our platform to trade agency bonds. Trading in agency bonds uses many of the same features available in our U.S. high-grade corporate bond offering.

Credit Default Swaps

We offer trading on our platform for CDS indices, index options and single-names in both the U.S. and Europe through our traditional RFQ protocol. We are streaming executable dealer markets in CDS and
European indices. Ten of our broker-dealer clients are providing streaming, executable CDS index prices. We have incorporated the request-for-market protocol and the streaming markets/click-to-trade protocol into an updated single-screen user
interface, giving clients full flexibility in their means of execution. With these features, we believe that we have developed much of the core technology needed to meet the anticipated regulatory requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act.



-15-




Asset-Backed Securities

In 2011, we introduced trading in consumer-based asset-backed securities and non-agency residential and commercial mortgage-backed
securities. Twelve of our U.S. broker-dealer clients use our platform to trade asset-backed securities. Trading in asset-backed securities uses many of the same features available in our U.S. high-grade corporate bond offerings.

Preferred Securities

In November 2010, we introduced trading in preferred securities. Seventeen of our U.S. broker-dealer clients use our platform to trade preferred securities. Trading in preferred securities uses many of
the same features available in our U.S. high-grade corporate bond offering.

Dealer-to-Dealer Trading

Through our DealerAxess®platform, our broker-dealer clients can access liquidity provided by over 100 global, regional and specialist dealers. In addition to fully-disclosed RFQ trading, we
offer an anonymous RFQ trading protocol for inter-dealer trading, helping dealers more efficiently manage their bond inventory. We offer trading across a wide range of fixed income products including high-grade, high-yield, emerging markets and U.S.
agency bonds. Dealers active on our client-to-dealer platform benefit from existing trade routing rules and books, straight-through processing connectivity and trading APIs. Bond trades on
DealerAxess®executed pursuant to the anonymous protocol are conducted with MarketAxess as riskless principal
and cleared and settled by an independent clearing broker.

Information and Analytical Tools

Corporate BondTickerTM

Corporate BondTickerTMprovides real-time TRACE data and enhances it with MarketAxess trade data and analytical tools in order to provide professional market participants with a comprehensive set of corporate bond price
information. The data include trade time and sales information, including execution prices, as well as MarketAxess-estimated spread-to-Treasuries, for trades disseminated by the TRACE system. The data also include actual execution prices and
spread-to-Treasury levels for U.S. high-grade corporate bond trades executed on the MarketAxess platform.

Corporate BondTickerTMallows institutional investors to search for and sort bonds based upon specific criteria, such as volume, time/date of
transaction, spread change, issuer or security. This search function allows institutional investors to compile information relating to potential securities trades in a fraction of the time that it takes to manually compile this information from
disparate sources or other electronic databases, including direct TRACE feeds.

TRACE facilitates the mandatory reporting of
over-the-counter secondary market transactions in eligible fixed-income securities. All broker-dealers that are FINRA member firms have an obligation to report transactions in corporate bonds to TRACE under a set of rules approved by the SEC. FINRA
then publicly disseminates a portion of this data, which is available free of charge on a delayed basis through the FINRA website or available immediately for a set fee.

Corporate BondTickerTMis integrated directly into the MarketAxess electronic trading platform and can be seamlessly accessed, either when
viewing securities inventory or when launching an inquiry. Corporate BondTickerTMis also available through the Internet for non-trading professional market participants, including, among others, research analysts and rating agencies, who can log in and access the information via an
easy-to-use browser-based interface.

We provide Corporate BondTickerTMas an ancillary service to our trading clients and also to other
industry participants. We derive revenues from our Corporate BondTickerTMservice by charging for seat licenses per user at our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients, through distribution agreements with other information service providers and through bulk data
sales to third parties. Seat license fees are waived for clients that transact a sufficient volume of trades through MarketAxess.



-16-




Additional analytical capabilities of our information services
offerings aim to provide clients with more information regarding bond prices and market activity, including asset swap spreads, turnover percentage and liquidity ratios. These statistics measure a security’s trading activity relative to its
amount outstanding and relative to the overall market, respectively, providing an additional perspective on relative liquidity. In addition, we provide pricing measures to help institutional investors better assess the relative value of a corporate
bond, providing more consistent relative pricing information for institutional investors, such as offering spread data versus the interest rate swap curve and versus the U.S. Treasury curve. Users are also able to download a variety of
MarketAxess-compiled trade reports containing a comprehensive review of trading activity. Corporate
BondTickerTMis currently the source of corporate bond
trading information forThe Wall Street Journal.

We also offer a comprehensive set of reports designed to review and
monitor credit trading activity for institutional investor clients. These reports utilize extensive TRACE information and have a flexible interface to run and save in a variety of formats for both compliance and management reporting. For example,
the best execution report provides a view of the savings generated by trading on our electronic trading platform and offers a quantitative measure of the value of price discovery from multiple dealers. The report allows clients to monitor
performance against their own best execution policy. Our compliance product provides a printed history of each inquiry submitted through the MarketAxess trading platform.

My Portfolio

Institutional investors are able to
upload their corporate bond portfolio to our electronic trading platform utilizing the “My Portfolio” trading feature. Institutional investors who utilize “My Portfolio” benefit from the ability to automatically match inventory
on our platform to bonds held in their portfolio, allowing them to more efficiently launch an inquiry and transact in these securities. Users of this feature can also directly access Corporate BondTickerTMto obtain the trading history of the securities in their portfolio.

Straight-Through Processing

Straight-through processing refers to the integration of systems and processes to automate the trade process from end-to-end — trade execution, confirmation and settlement — without the need for
manual intervention. There are two elements of straight-through processing: internal straight-through processing and external straight-through processing. Internal straight-through processing relates to the trade and settlement processes that are
internal to an industry participant. For example, in the case of an institutional investor, this includes authorization of orders, placement of orders with broker-dealers, receipt of execution details and allocation of trades. External
straight-through processing refers to connecting seamlessly to all external counterparts in the trading and settlement process.

Automation by way of straight-through processing improves efficiency throughout the trade cycle. We provide broker-dealers and
institutional investors with a range of tools that facilitate straight-through processing, including order upload, easy-to-use online allocation tools and pre- and post-trade messaging features that enable institutional investors to communicate
electronically between front- and back-office systems, thereby integrating the order, portfolio management and accounting systems of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients in real time. Our straight-through processing tools can be
customized to meet specific needs of clients. We continue to build industry partnerships to assist our clients in creating connectivity throughout the trade cycle. Through these partnerships, we are increasingly providing solutions that can quickly
be deployed within our clients’ trading operations.

Usage of our straight-through processing tools increased
significantly during the last several years. The number of investor client STP connections increased from 180 as of December 31, 2008 to 325 as of December 31, 2012.

Dealer API

We offer Application Programming Interface
(“API”) services to our broker-dealer clients for pre-trade, trade negotiation and post-trade services. This allows for straight-through processing, which improves efficiency and reduces errors in processing.

Technology Services

Through our Greenline Financial Technologies, Inc. (“Greenline”) subsidiary, we provide integration, testing and management solutions for FIX-related products and services. The FIX protocol is a
messaging standard developed specifically for the real-time electronic exchange of securities transaction information. Greenline’s CertiFIX product enables firms to provide a reliable FIX certification environment for their trading
counterparties. The VeriFIX product is a testing suite that allows firms to thoroughly test counterparty FIX interfaces, protocol formats and supported messages. Greenline’s MagniFIX product allows firms to monitor their enterprise-wide FIX
installations on a real-time basis. In addition, Greenline provides strategic consulting and custom development for its clients.



-17-




We also provide technology consulting and customized development services to our clients
that leverage our trading technology expertise and our existing technology solutions. Fees for such services are based on the complexity and extent of the services provided. In addition, we provide gateway adapters to connect order management and
trading systems to fixed-income trading venues.

Sales and Marketing

We promote our products and services using a variety of direct and indirect sales and marketing strategies. Our sales
force is responsible for client acquisition activity and for increasing use of our platform by our existing clients. Their goal is to train and support existing and new clients on how to use the system and to educate them as to the benefits of
utilizing an electronic fixed-income trading platform. We employ various strategies, including advertising, direct marketing, promotional mailings and participation in industry conferences, to increase awareness of our brand and our electronic
trading platform. For example, we have worked withThe Wall Street Journalto establish Corporate
BondTickerTMas the source of information for its daily
corporate bond and high-yield tables.

Competition

The electronic trading industry is highly competitive and we expect competition to intensify in the future. We face five main areas of competition:



•Telephone— We compete with bond trading business conducted over the telephone between broker-dealers and their institutional investor
clients. Institutional investors have historically purchased fixed-income securities by telephoning bond sales professionals at one or more broker-dealers and inquiring about the price and availability of individual bonds. This remains the manner in
which the majority of corporate bonds are still traded between institutional investors and broker-dealers.



•E-mail— We compete with bond trading business conducted via e-mail between broker-dealers and their institutional investor clients. E-mail
provides an efficient means of initiating product and price discovery with a large universe of potential trading partners.



•Other electronic trading platforms— There are numerous other electronic trading platforms currently in existence. Among others, Thomson
TradeWeb and Bloomberg operate- multi-dealer to institutional investor trading platforms for both fixed income securities and derivatives. The New York Stock Exchange also offers exchange-style trading for corporate bonds. In addition, some
broker-dealers and institutional investors operate proprietary electronic trading systems that enable institutional investors to trade directly with a broker-dealer, and/or with other institutional investors over an electronic medium. Additionally,
as we expand our business into new products, we will likely come into more direct competition with other electronic trading platforms or firms offering traditional services.



•Market data and information vendors— Several large market data and information providers currently have a data and analytics relationship
with virtually every institutional firm. Some of these entities, including Bloomberg, currently offer varying forms of electronic trading of fixed-income securities, mostly on a single-dealer basis. Some of these entities have announced their
intention to expand their electronic trading platforms or to develop new platforms. These entities are currently direct competitors to our information services business and already are or may in the future become direct competitors to our electronic
trading platform.



•Technology vendors— We compete with numerous providers of FIX message management tools and connectivity solutions. The market for our
technology products and services is fragmented and includes FIX engine providers, testing, monitoring, certification and professional services firms and in-house technology and development groups at virtually every institutional firm.

Competitors, including companies in which some of our broker-dealer clients have invested, have developed
electronic trading platforms or have announced their intention to explore the development of electronic trading platforms that compete or will compete with us. Furthermore, our broker-dealer clients have made, and may in the future continue to make
investments in or enter into agreements with other businesses that directly or indirectly compete with us.



-18-




In general, we compete on the basis of a number of key factors, including:



•broad network of broker-dealer and institutional investor clients using our electronic trading platform;



•liquidity provided by the participating broker-dealers;



•magnitude and frequency of price improvement;



•enhancing the quality and speed of execution;



•compliance benefits;



•total transaction costs;



•technology capabilities, including the reliability and ease of use of our electronic trading platform; and



•range of products and services offered.

We believe that our ability to grow volumes and revenues will largely depend on our performance with respect to these factors.

Our competitive position is also enhanced by the familiarity and integration of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients with our electronic trading platform and other systems. We have focused
on the unique aspects of the credit markets we serve in the development of our platform, working closely with our clients to provide a system that is suited to their needs.

Our broker-dealer clients have invested in building API’s with us for inventory contributions, electronic trading, government bond benchmark pricing and post-trade messaging. We believe that we have
successfully built deep roots with our broker-dealer clients, increasing our level of service to them while at the same time increasing their commitment to our services.

Furthermore, 325 of our institutional investor clients have built interfaces to enable them to communicate electronically between our platform and their order, portfolio management and accounting systems.
We believe that this increases the reliance of these institutional investor clients on our services and creates significant competitive barriers to entry.

Technology

The design and quality of our technology products are critical
to our growth and our ability to execute our business strategy. Our electronic trading platform has been designed with secure, scalable client-server architecture that makes broad use of distributed computing to achieve speed, reliability and fault
tolerance. The platform is built on industry-standard technologies and has been designed to handle many multiples of our current trading volume.

All critical server-side components, primarily our networks, application servers and databases, have backup equipment running in the event that the main equipment fails. This offers fully redundant system
capacity to maximize uptime and minimize the potential for loss of transaction data in the event of an internal failure. We also seek to minimize the impact of external failures by automatically recovering connections in the event of a
communications failure. The majority of our broker-dealer clients have redundant dedicated high-speed communication paths to our network in order to provide fast data transfer. Our security measures include industry-standard communications
encryption.

We have designed our application with an easy-to-use, Windows-based interface. Our clients are able to access our
electronic trading platform through a secure, single sign-on. Clients are also able to execute transactions over our platform directly from their order management systems. We provide users an automatic software update feature that does not require
manual intervention.

Intellectual Property

We rely upon a combination of copyright, patent, trade secret and trademark laws, written agreements and common law to protect our proprietary technology, processes and other intellectual property. Our
software code, elements of our electronic trading platform, website and other proprietary materials are protected by copyright laws. We have been issued 11 patents, including five patents issued in 2009 covering our most significant trading
protocols and other aspects of our trading system technology, and additional patents are pending.



-19-




The written agreements upon which we rely to protect our proprietary technology, processes
and intellectual property include agreements designed to protect our trade secrets. Examples of these written agreements include third party nondisclosure agreements, employee nondisclosure and inventions assignment agreements, and agreements with
customers, contractors and strategic partners. Other written agreements upon which we rely to protect our proprietary technology, processes and intellectual property take many forms and contain provisions related to patent, copyright, trademark and
trade secret rights.

We have obtained U.S. federal registration of the MarketAxess®name and logo, and the same mark and logo have been registered in several foreign jurisdictions. In addition, we
have obtained U.S. federal registration for the marks AutoSpotting®, FrontPage®, Actives®, DealerAxess®and associated
designs and have a number of other registered trademarks and service marks. Corporate BondTickerTMis a trademark we use, but it has not been registered.

In addition to our
efforts to register our intellectual property, we believe that factors such as the technological and creative skills of our personnel, new product and service developments, frequent enhancements and reliability with respect to our services are
essential to establishing and maintaining a technology and market leadership position.

Government Regulation

The securities industry and financial markets in the U.S. and elsewhere are subject to extensive regulation. As a matter of public policy,
regulatory bodies in the U.S. and the rest of the world are charged with safeguarding the integrity of the securities and other financial markets and with protecting the interests of investors participating in those markets. Our active broker-dealer
subsidiaries fall within the scope of their regulations.

Regulation of the U.S. Securities Industry and Broker-Dealers

In the U.S., the SEC is the governmental agency responsible for the administration of the federal securities laws. One
of our U.S. subsidiaries, MarketAxess Corporation, is registered with the SEC as a broker-dealer. It is also a member of FINRA, a self-regulatory organization to which most broker-dealers belong. In addition, MarketAxess Corporation is a member of
the Securities Investor Protection Corporation, which provides certain protection for clients’ accounts in the event of a liquidation of a broker-dealer to the extent any such accounts are held by the broker-dealer.

Additionally, MarketAxess Corporation is registered with certain states and the District of Columbia as a broker-dealer. The individual
states and the District of Columbia are responsible for the administration of their respective “blue sky” laws, rules and regulations.

In July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law. U.S. financial regulators are in the midst of an intense period of rulemaking that is required to implement the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, and
market participants will need to make strategic decisions in an environment of regulatory uncertainty. Among the most significant aspects of the derivatives section of the Dodd-Frank Act are mandatory clearing of certain derivatives
transactions (“swaps”) through regulated central clearing organizations and mandatory trading of those swaps through either regulated exchanges or swap execution facilities, in each case, subject to certain key exceptions. As with
other parts of the Dodd-Frank Act, many of the details of the new regulatory regime relating to swaps are left to the regulators to determine through rulemaking. While we expect that the CFTC and SEC will adopt rules that detail the new
regulatory regime regarding the swaps market place in 2013, no assurance can be given regarding when, or whether, such rules will be finalized and implemented. Subject to such rulemaking, we currently expect to establish and operate a swap execution
facility and/or a security-based swap execution facility.

Regulation of the Non-U.S. Securities Industries and
Investment Service Providers

The securities industry and financial markets in the U.K., the European Union and
elsewhere are subject to extensive regulation. MarketAxess Europe Limited may fall within the scope of those regulations depending on the extent to which it is characterized as providing a regulated investment service.

Our principal regulator in the U.K. is the FSA. Our subsidiary, MarketAxess Europe Limited, is registered as a Multilateral Trading
Facility (“MTF”) dealer with the FSA. Xtrakter Limited is registered, and upon consummation of the pending acquisition will continue to be registered, as an Approved Reporting Mechanism with the FSA. Xtrakter also has “recognized
status” in France, the Netherlands and Belgium in connection with the submission of transaction reports to regulators.



-20-




The securities industry in the member states of the European Union is regulated by agencies
in each member state. European Union measures provide for the mutual recognition of regulatory agencies and of prudential supervision making possible the grant of a single authorization for providers of investment services, which, in general, is
valid throughout the European Union. As an FSA approved MTF, MarketAxess Europe Limited receives the benefit of this authorization.

Similar to the U.S., regulatory bodies in Europe and elsewhere are developing new rules for derivatives trading. For example, the European Parliament and the EU Council of Ministers endorsed an agreement
that will, among other things, require central clearing of standardized OTC derivatives and the reporting of all derivatives (OTC or otherwise) to trade repositories. However, it is not yet clear whether there will be any requirement in the EU to
trade standardized CDS contracts on regulated exchanges or trading platforms.

Our Canadian subsidiary, MarketAxess Canada
Limited, is registered as an Alternative Trading System dealer under the Securities Act of Ontario and is a member of the Investment Industry Regulatory Organization of Canada.

Employees

As of December 31, 2012, we had 240 employees, 194 of whom
were based in the U.S. and 46 of whom were based outside of the U.S., principally in the U.K. None of our employees is represented by a labor union. We consider our relationships with our employees to be good and have not experienced any
interruptions of operations due to labor disagreements.

Company Information

MarketAxess was incorporated in Delaware in April 2000. Our Internet website address is www.marketaxess.com. Through our Internet website,
we will make available, free of charge, the following reports as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing them with, or furnishing them to, the SEC: our annual report on Form 10-K; our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q; our current
reports on Form 8-K; and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Our Proxy Statements for our Annual Meetings are also available through our Internet website.
Our Internet website and the information contained therein or connected thereto are not intended to be incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. You may also obtain copies of our reports without charge by writing to:

MarketAxess Holdings Inc.

299 Park Avenue

New York, NY 10171

Attn: Investor Relations

Our Board of Directors has standing Audit, Compensation, Investment, and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees. Each of these committees has a written charter approved by our Board of Directors.
Our Board of Directors has also adopted a set of Corporate Governance Guidelines. Copies of each committee charter, along with the Corporate Governance Guidelines, are also posted on our website.

You may read and copy any document we file with the SEC at the SEC’s public reference room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580,
Washington, DC 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for information on the public reference room. The SEC maintains an Internet website that contains annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and information statements and other
information that issuers (including the Company) file electronically with the SEC. The SEC’s internet website is www.sec.gov.

We have obtained federal registration of the MarketAxess®name and
logo, as well as for the marks Auto-Spotting®, BondLink®, Actives®, FrontPage®and DealerAxess®. We also have a number of other registered trademarks, service mark applications and trademark applications. Other trademarks and service marks appearing in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K are the property of their respective holders.



-21-




