Item 1.Business.

MarketAxess Holdings Inc. (the “Company” or “MarketAxess”) operates a leading electronic trading platform that enables fixed-income market participants to efficiently trade corporate bonds and other types of fixed-income instruments using our patented trading technology. Our over 1,000 active participant firms include broker-dealer clients, investment advisers, mutual funds, insurance companies, public and private pension funds, bank portfolios and hedge funds. Our approximately 90 broker-dealer market-maker clients provide liquidity on the platform and include most of the leading broker-dealers in global fixed-income trading. We also execute certain bond transactions between and among institutional investor and broker-dealer clients on a matched principal (often called “riskless principal”) basis by serving as counterparty to both the buyer and the seller in trades which then settle through a third-party clearing broker. We provide fixed-income market data, analytics and compliance tools that help our clients make trading decisions. We also provide trade matching and regulatory transaction reporting services to the securities markets. In addition, we provide technology solutions and professional consulting services to fixed-income industry participants.

Our multi-dealer trading platform allows our institutional investor clients to simultaneously request competing, executable bids or offers from our broker-dealer clients and execute trades with the broker-dealer of their choice from among those that choose to respond. We offer our broker-dealer clients a solution that enables them to efficiently reach our institutional investor clients for the distribution and trading of bonds. Our trading platform provides access to global liquidity in U.S. high-grade corporate bonds, emerging markets and high-yield bonds, European bonds, U.S. agency bonds, credit derivatives and other fixed-income securities.

Through our Open TradingTMinitiative, we have designed a series of protocols to allow our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients to interact in an all-to-all trading environment.  These innovative technology solutions are designed to increase the number of potential trading counterparties on our electronic trading platform and create a menu of solutions to address different trade sizes and bond liquidity characteristics.

The majority of our revenues are derived from commissions for trades executed on our platform and distribution fees that are billed to our broker-dealer clients on a monthly basis. We also derive revenues from information and post-trade services, technology products and services, investment income and other income. Our expenses consist of employee compensation and benefits, depreciation and amortization, technology and communication expenses, professional and consulting fees, occupancy, marketing and advertising and other general and administrative expenses.

Traditionally, bond trading has been a manual process, with product and price discovery conducted over the telephone between two or more parties. This traditional process has a number of shortcomings resulting primarily from the lack of a central trading facility for these securities, which makes it difficult to matchbuyers and sellers for particular issues. Many corporate bond trading participants use e-mail and other electronic means of communication for trading corporate bonds. While this has addressed some of the shortcomings associated with traditional corporate bond trading, we believe that the process is still hindered by limited liquidity, limited price transparency, significant transaction costs, compliance and regulatory challenges, and difficulty in executing numerous trades at one time.

Through our disclosed multi-dealer Request For Quote (“RFQ”) trading functionality, our institutional investor clients can determine prices available for a security, a process called price discovery, as well as trade securities directly with our broker-dealer clients. The price discovery process includes the ability to view indicative prices from the broker-dealer clients’ inventory available on our platform, access to real-time pricing information and analytical tools (including spread-to-Treasury data, search capabilities and independent third-party credit research) available on our Corporate BondTickerTMservice and the ability to request executable bids and






offers simultaneously from all of our participating broker-dealer clients during the trade process. On average, institutional investor clients receive several bids or offers from broker-dealer clients in response to trade inquiries. However, some trade inquiries may not receive any bids or offers.

Our services relating to trade execution include single and multiple-dealer inquiries; list trading, which is the ability to request bids and offers on multiple bonds at the same time; and swap trading, which is the ability to request an offer to purchase one bond and a bid to sell another bond, in a manner such that the two trades will be executed simultaneously, with payment based on the price differential of the bonds. Once a trade is completed on our platform, the broker-dealer client and institutional investor client may settle the trade with the assistance of our automated post-trade messaging, which facilitates the communication of trade acknowledgment and allocation information between our institutional investor and broker-dealer clients.

According to the Federal Reserve, outstanding U.S. high-grade corporate bond debt has increased approximately 43% from year-end 2008 to September 30, 2014, the most recent date available. During this same period, financial market regulators have increased capital requirements for bank-owned broker-dealers holding corporate bond inventory. As a result, corporate bond debt owned by institutional investors has increased, while the available base of capital for dealer market making has declined. Partly as a result of these trends, overall secondary turnover as a percentage of corporate debt outstanding has been falling, causing all market participants to look for new electronic trading solutions to improve liquidity and turnover. We have responded with a series of new MarketAxess Open TradingTMprotocols designed to allow our broker-dealers and institutional investor clients to interact in an all-to-all trading environment.  During 2014, we completed approximately 77,000 trades utilizing new electronic Open Trading™ solutions.

Typically, we are not a party to the trades that occur on our platform between institutional investor clients and broker-dealer clients; rather, we serve as an intermediary between broker-dealers and institutional investors, enabling them to meet, agree on a price and then transact with each other. However, in connection with our Open Trading™ or other anonymous protocols, we execute bond transactions between and among institutional investor and broker-dealer clients on a matched principal basis by serving as counterparty to both the buyer and the seller in matching back-to-back trades which are then settled through a third-party clearing broker.

Our broker-dealer clients accounted for approximately 96% of the underwriting of newly-issued U.S. corporate bonds and approximately 76% of the underwriting of newly issued European corporate bonds in 2014. We believe these broker-dealers also represent the principal source of secondary market liquidity in the other markets in which we operate. Secondary market liquidity refers to the ability of market participants to buy or sell a security quickly and in large volume subsequent to the original issuance of the security, without substantially affecting the price of the security. In addition to trading fixed-income securities by traditional means, including the telephone and e-mail, our broker-dealer clients use proprietary single-dealer systems and other trading platforms as well as our electronic trading platform. We believe that the traditional means of trading remain the manner in which the majority of bonds are traded between institutional investors and broker-dealers.

In 2014, our volume in U.S. high-grade corporate bonds represented approximately 14.5% of the total estimated U.S. high-grade corporate bond volume, as adjusted by us to eliminate the increased reporting of affiliate back-to-back trades beginning in April 2014 and the inclusion of 144A securities beginning on July 1, 2014, as reported by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”) Trade Reporting and Compliance Engine (“TRACE”). TRACE facilitates the mandatory reporting of over-the-counter (“OTC”) secondary market transactions in eligible fixed-income securities in the U.S., including trading between institutional investors and broker-dealers, as well as inter-dealer and retail trading. All broker-dealers that are FINRA member firms have an obligation to report transactions in corporate bonds to TRACE under a set of rules approved by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). We provide both the reported and adjusted U.S. high-grade TRACE volumes on our website. We believe that the adjusted estimated volumes provide a more accurate comparison to prior period reporting.

In February 2013, we acquired Xtrakter Limited (“Xtrakter”) from Euroclear S.A./N.V. Through our Trax®brand,Xtrakter is a U.K.-based provider of trade matching and regulatory transaction reporting services for European securities and market and reference data across a range of fixed-income products. The acquisition of Xtrakter provided the Company with an expanded set of technology solutions ahead of incoming pre-and post-trade transparency mandates from the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive II (“MiFID II”)in Europe.

Industry Background

Fixed-income securities are issued by corporations, governments and other entities, and pay a pre-set absolute or relative rate of return. As of September 30, 2014, the most recent date available, there were approximately $38.4 trillion principal amount of fixed-income securities outstanding in the U.S. market, including $7.7 trillion principal amount of U.S. corporate bonds, according to the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association (“SIFMA”). The estimated average daily trading volume of U.S. corporate bonds (excluding 144A securities), as measured by TRACE, was $17.7 billion in 2014.






Primary dealer holdings of U.S. corporate bonds (investment-grade and high-yield) as reported by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York were $14.9 billion as of December 31, 2014. This represents less than one day of trading volume as measured by TRACE. The trading volume of U.S. high-grade corporate bonds as reported by TRACE increased to approximately $3.3 trillion for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to $3.2 and $3.0 for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.

U.S. High-Grade Corporate Bond Market

The U.S. corporate bond market consists of three broad categories of securities: investment-grade debt (so-called “high-grade”), which typically refers to debt rated BBB- or better by Standard & Poor’s or Baa3 or better by Moody’s Investor Service; debt rated below investment-grade (so-called “high-yield”), which typically refers to debt rated lower than BBB- by Standard & Poor’s or Baa3 by Moody’s Investor Service; and debt convertible into equity (so-called “convertible debt”). We use the terms high-grade debt and investment-grade debt interchangeably in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

The U.S. high-grade corporate bond market, which represents the largest subset of the U.S. corporate bond market, has undergone significant change, which has been driven by a number of factors, including:

·Improved price transparency— In 2002, FINRA adopted TRACE reporting, which requires FINRA members to report secondary market transactions in certain fixed-income securities to FINRA. The list of TRACE-eligible bonds includes over 34,000 unique securities, representing the majority of the daily trading volume of high-grade bonds.

·Electronic trading platforms— Electronic trading platforms act as central facilities to bring together buyers and sellers. The actions of participants on these platforms are facilitated by an electronic medium that improves some of the manual processes that might otherwise be required, such as searching for securities with specific characteristics, the coordination of multiple bilateral telephone calls or electronic communications, the sorting and analysis of competing bids or offers, and the entry of orders into the trading system after verbal or e-mail trade agreement. As a result, these platforms typically provide a lower-cost and more efficient means of enhanced distribution and trade execution than previously possible.

·Decreased use of credit derivatives— Credit derivatives can provide increased flexibility and liquidity for investors and lenders to diversify their credit exposures. Activity in the credit derivative market has fallen substantially since 2007 due to concern over the risks associated with these products, in particular the counterparty credit risks, and uncertainty regarding the effect of changes to the market resulting from implementation of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), which was enacted during 2010.

·Total amount of debt issued and outstanding— High-grade corporate bond issuance of $754.0 billion during 2009 was 24% below the 2007 pre-crisis level, as risk aversion among corporate bond investors limited the ability of issuers across a wide range of industries, in particular those in the financial services industry, to issue new corporate bonds. New issues of high-grade corporate bonds were relatively stable over the next two years ended December 31, 2011. Over the last three years, high-grade corporate bond issuance was over $1.0 trillion, exceeding pre-crisis levels. According to the Federal Reserve, U.S. high-grade corporate bond debt outstanding has increased approximately 43% from year-end 2008 to September 30, 2014.

·Decline in dealer inventory levels— Prior to regulatory reforms such as Basel III and regulations under the Dodd-Frank Act, dealer balance sheets were relatively elastic so dealers were able to facilitate trading in most fixed-income products without dramatic price moves. The regulatory reforms enacted after the global financial crisis resulted in greater capital and liquidity requirements for banks, which impacted market liquidity and diminished risk appetite by market intermediaries. The Volcker Rule, which limits proprietary trading by banks, has also had an impact on dealer inventories and the ability of dealers to act as effective market-makers. As a result, we believe market participants require new solutions to increase liquidity and we have responded with our MarketAxess Open TradingTMprotocols designed to allow our broker-dealers and institutional investor clients to interact in an all-to-all trading environment.

Emerging Markets Bond Market

We define the emerging markets bond market generally to include U.S. dollar, Euro or local currency denominated bonds issued by sovereign entities or corporations domiciled in a developing country. These issuers are typically located in Latin America, Asia, or Central and Eastern Europe. Examples of countries we classify as emerging markets include: Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, Mexico, Peru, the Philippines, Russia, Turkey and Venezuela.

The institutional investor base for emerging markets bonds includes many crossover investors from the high-yield and high-grade investment areas. Institutional investors have been drawn to emerging markets bonds by their high returns and high growth potential. The average daily trading volume of emerging markets debt, as reported by the Emerging Markets Trade Association for the quarter ended September 30, 2014, the most recent date available, was $9.4 billion of external markets debt and $13.3 billion of local markets debt.






Crossover and High-Yield Bond Market

We define the high-yield bond market generally to include all debt rated lower than BBB- by Standard & Poor’s or Baa3 by Moody’s Investor Service. We define the crossover market to include any debt issue rated below investment-grade by one agency but investment-grade by the other. The total amount of high-yield corporate bonds yearly issuance as reported by SIFMA declined by 68% to $43.0 billion during 2008 from $136.0 billion in 2007, primarily due to the risk aversion among corporate bond investors that severely limited the ability of high-yield issuers to raise new debt. Beginning in 2009, however, the high-yield corporate bond markets demonstrated significant improvement and new issuance for the year ended December 31, 2014 had increased to $311.0 billion, as reported by SIFMA.

FINRA publicly disseminates real-time price information on approximately 7,000 high-yield corporate bond issues and disseminates price information about certain other transactions on a delayed basis. Trades in bonds rated BB and lower are subject to immediate dissemination if the trade size is less than $1 million, or greater than $1 million and the bond trades an average of once or more a day. The average daily trading volume of high-yield bonds as measured by TRACE for the year ended December 31, 2014 was approximately $4.6 billion.

European High-Grade Corporate Bond Market

The European high-grade corporate bond market consists of a broad range of products, issuers and currencies. We define the European high-grade corporate bond market generally to consist of bonds intended to be distributed to European investors, primarily bonds issued by European corporations, excluding bonds that are issued by corporations domiciled in an emerging markets country and excluding most government bonds that trade in Europe. Examples include:

·bonds issued by European corporations, denominated in any currency;

·bonds generally denominated in Euros, U.S. dollars or Pounds Sterling, excluding bonds that are issued by corporations domiciled in an emerging market;

·bonds issued by supra-national organizations (entities that include a number of central banks or government financial authorities, such as the World Bank), agencies and governments located in Europe, generally denominated in Euros, U.S. dollars or Pounds Sterling, provided that such currency is not the currency of the country where the bond was issued; and

·floating-rate notes issued by European corporations.

We believe that the European high-grade corporate bond market is impacted by many of the same factors as the U.S. high-grade corporate bond market.

U.S. Agency Bond Market

We define the U.S. agency bond market to include debt issued by a U.S. government-sponsored enterprise. Some prominent issuers of agency bonds are the Federal National Mortgage Association and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation. The total amount of U.S. agency bonds outstanding was approximately $2.0 trillion as of September 30, 2014 as reported by SIFMA. The average daily trading volume of U.S. agency bonds (excluding mortgage-backed securities) as measured by TRACE for the year ended December 31, 2014 was approximately $5.9 billion.

Credit Derivative Market








implementation of such rules. No assurance can be given regarding when, whether or in what form the remaining rules regarding the new regulatory regime for the swaps marketplace will be finalized or implemented.

Similar to the U.S., regulatory bodies in Europe and elsewhere have developed new rules for derivatives trading.  For example, in July 2014, the pan-European MiFID II was entered into force with rules requiring the central clearing of standardized OTC derivatives, the reporting of all derivatives (OTC or otherwise) to trade repositories and the  trading of standardized derivatives only on a regulated trading venue, such as ourMultilateral Trading Facility (“MTF”).   Although the final rules for MiFID II have not yet been finalized and their ultimate impact on the European derivatives market is not yet known, MiFID II is expected to be implemented in the beginning of 2017.

Trade Matching and Regulatory Transaction Reporting Services

Trade matching is an operational risk management tool that enables counterparties to agree the terms of a trade shortly after execution, reducing the risk of errors and a trade failing during settlement.In 2014, the Central Securities Depositories Regulation shortened the securities settlement cycle for corporate bonds across the European Union (“EU”) to no later than two days after the date on which a trade is executed, referred to as a T+2 settlement cycle.   We believe that the move to T+2 settlement will increase the need for trade matching services, such as those provided by our Trax®brand.

Adopted in late 2007, the first Markets in Financial Instruments Directive set best-execution requirements for trades and mandated that financial firms submit to their local regulators detailed end-of-day reports including the time, and price of a trade, the counterparty involved and whether it was a purchase or sale. Firms must either become so-called approved reporting mechanisms (“ARMs”) or use one of the approved providers, such as our Trax®ARM. In most cases, both the fund manager and its executing broker-dealer or bank must include the same details of the same trade on their respective transaction reports. In the U.K., required transactions are reported to the Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”).MiFID II increased the number of fields that must be reported to regulators and we expect the demand for experienced regulatory trade reporting service providers to increase over the next several years.

Our Competitive Strengths

Our electronic trading platform provides solutions to some of the shortcomings of traditional bond trading methods. The benefits of our solution are demonstrable throughout the trading cycle:

·Pre-trade— In the pre-trade period, our platform assists our participants by providing them with value-added services, such as real time and historical trade price information, liquidity and turnover analytics, bond reference data and trade order matching alerts;

·Trade— Our innovative electronic trading platform enables our participants to, among other things, request and receive single and multiple security trade execution, with access to broad and unique sources of liquidity from our growing network of participating firms, and the ability to choose from a wide menu of electronic trading protocols to address different trade sizes and liquidity characteristics; and

·Post-trade— Following the execution of a trade, our platform supports all of the essential tools and functionalities to enable our participants to realize the full benefits of electronic trading and demonstrate best execution, including real-time trade details, straight-through processing (“STP”), account allocations, automated audit trails, regulatory trade reporting, trade detail matching, and transaction cost analysis.

We believe that we are well positioned to strengthen our market position in electronic trading in our existing products and to extend our presence into new products and services by capitalizing on our competitive strengths, including:

Significant Trading Volumes with Participation by Leading Broker-Dealers and Institutional Investors

Our electronic trading platform provides access to the liquidity provided through the participation on our platform of over 1,000 active institutional investor and broker-dealer clients, including substantially all of the leading broker-dealers in global fixed-income trading. We believe these broker-dealers represent the principal source of secondary market liquidity for U.S. high-grade corporate bonds, emerging markets and high-yield bonds, European high-grade corporate bonds and the other markets in which we operate. Our broker-dealer clients are motivated to continue to utilize our platform due to the presence on the platform of our large network of institutional investor clients.






Our total bond trading volume increased from $402.1 billion in 2010 to $767.0 billion in 2014, as indicated below:



Our adjusted estimated share of U.S. high-grade and high-yield corporate bond volume for 2014 was approximately 14.5% and 6.2%, respectively. Our estimated market share from 2010 to 2014 is shown in the chart below:







*Adjusted by us to eliminate the increased reporting of affiliated back-to-back trades to FINRA beginning in April 2014 and the inclusion of 144A securities in reported TRACE volumes beginning on July 1, 2014.

Execution Benefits to Clients

Benefits to Institutional Investor Clients

We believe we provide numerous benefits to our institutional investor clients over traditional fixed-income trading methods, including:

Competitive Prices.By enabling institutional investors to simultaneously request bids or offers from our broker-dealer clients, we believe our electronic trading platform creates an environment that motivates our broker-dealer clients to provide competitive prices and gives institutional investors confidence that they are obtaining a competitive price. For typical MarketAxess multi-dealer






corporate bond inquiries, the range of competitive spread-to-Treasury responses is approximately 9 basis points (a basis point is 1/100 of 1% in yield). As an example of the potential cost savings to institutional investors, a one basis point savings on a $1 million face amount trade of a bond with 10 years to maturity translates to aggregate savings of approximately $800.00.

Transparent Pricing on a Range of Securities.Institutional investors can search bonds in inventory based on combinations of issuer, issue, rating, maturity, spread-to-Treasury, size and dealer providing the listing, in a fraction of the time it takes to do so manually. Institutional investor clients can also request executable bids and offers on our electronic trading platform on any debt security in a database of U.S. and European corporate bonds, although there can be no assurance as to the number of broker-dealers who will choose to provide an executable price. Our platform transmits bid and offer requests in real-time to broker-dealer clients, who may respond with executable prices within the time period specified by the institutional investor. Through our Open Trading™ protocols,institutional investors may also elect to display live requests for bids or offers anonymously to all other users of our electronic trading platform, in order to create broader visibility of their inquiry among market participants and increase the likelihood that the request results in a trade. We believe that broader participation in client inquiries will result in more trade matches and lower transaction costs.

Improved Cost Efficiency.We believe that we provide improved efficiency by reducing the time and labor required to conduct broad product and price discovery. Single-security and multi-security (bid or offer lists) inquiries can be efficiently conducted with multiple broker-dealers. In addition, our Corporate BondTickerTMeliminates the need for manually-intensive phone calls or e-mail communication to gather, sort and analyze information concerning historical transaction prices.

Benefits to Broker-Dealer Clients

We also provide substantial benefits to our broker-dealer clients over traditional fixed-income trading methods, including:

Greater Sales Efficiency.We offer our broker-dealer clients broad connectivity with our institutional investor clients. Through this connectivity, our broker-dealer clients are able to efficiently display their indications of interest to buy and sell various securities. We also enable broker-dealers to broaden their distribution by participating in transactions to which they otherwise may not have had access. In addition, the ability to post prices and electronically execute on straightforward trades enables bond sales professionals at broker-dealer firms to focus their efforts on more profitable activities, such as higher value-added trades and more complex transactions.

More Efficient Inventory Management.The posting of inventory to, and the ability to respond to inquiries from, a broad pool of institutional investors, creates an increased opportunity for broker-dealers to identify demand for their inventory, particularly in less liquid securities. As a result, we believe they can achieve enhanced bond inventory turnover, which may limit credit exposure.

Benefits to Both Institutional Investor and Broker-Dealer Clients

We offer additional benefits over traditional fixed-income trading methods that are shared by both institutional investor and broker-dealer clients, including:

Greater Trading Accuracy.Our electronic trading platform includes verification mechanisms at various stages of the execution process which result in greater accuracy in the processing, confirming and clearing of trades between institutional investor and broker-dealer clients. These verification mechanisms are designed to ensure that our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients are sending accurate trade messages by providing multiple opportunities to verify they are trading the correct bond, at the agreed-upon price and size. Our platform assists our institutional investor clients in automating the transmittal of order tickets from the portfolio manager to the trader, and from the trader to back-office personnel. This automation provides more timely execution and a reduction in the likelihood of errors that can result from manual entry of information into different systems.

Efficient Risk Monitoring and Compliance.Institutional investors and their regulators are increasingly focused on ensuring that best execution is achieved for fixed-income trades. Our electronic trading platform offers both institutional investors and broker-dealers an automated audit trail for each stage in the trading cycle. This enables compliance personnel to review information relating to trades more easily and with greater reliability. Trade information including time, price and spread-to-Treasury is stored securely and automatically on our electronic trading platform. This data represents a valuable source of information for our clients’ compliance personnel. Importantly, we believe the automated audit trail, together with the competitive pricing that is a feature of our electronic trading platform, gives fiduciaries the ability to demonstrate that they have achieved best execution on behalf of their clients.

Other Service Offerings

In addition to services directly related to the execution of trades, we offer our clients several other services, including:

Information Services.The information and analytical tools we provide to our clients help them make investment and trading decisions. Our Corporate BondTickerTMprovides access to real-time and historical price, yield and MarketAxess estimated spread-to-






Treasuries for publicly disseminated TRACE-eligible bonds. Corporate BondTickerTMcombines publicly-available TRACE data with the prices for trades executed on our U.S. high-grade electronic trading platform, integrating the two data sources and providing real-time TRACE data with associated analytical tools that are not otherwise available. Our electronic trading platform allows institutional investors to compile, sort and use information to discover investment opportunities that might have been difficult or impossible to identify using a manual information-gathering process or other electronic services.

We offer a comprehensive set of reports designed to review and monitor credit trading activity for institutional investor clients. These reports utilize extensive TRACE information and are accessible by means of a flexible interface to run and save reports in a variety of formats for both compliance and management reporting. For example, the best execution report provides a view of the savings generated by trading on our electronic trading platform and offers a quantitative measure of the value of price discovery from multiple dealers. The report allows clients to monitor performance against their own best execution policy. Our compliance product provides a printed history of each inquiry submitted through the MarketAxess trading platform.

Through our Trax®brand, we provide a range of information solutions for financial services firms, utilizing quotes contributed by market participants and leveraging our trade matching and regulatory transaction reporting services for European securities. We provide market participants with access to pricing, liquidity and volume data on over 50,000 unique fixed-income securities. We also provide access to securities reference data on approximately 300,000 fixed-income securities.

Post-Trade Services.Our Trax®service provides post-trade, pre-settlement trade matching and regulatory reporting for the European OTC markets. It allows subscribers to match and report trades in a range of capital market instruments, including bonds, derivatives, equities and swaps.  Following the implementation of the T+2 settlement cycle for transferable securities in European markets, subscribers can use Trax®to match trades on trade date and help reduce settlement risk. Trax®has over 190 subscribers, including broker-dealers, hedge funds and investment banks. The Trax®platform processed over 1.1 billion transactions in 2014.

Straight-Through Processing.STP refers to the integration of systems and processes to automate the trade process from end-to-end — trade execution, confirmation and settlement — without the need for manual intervention. Our electronic trading platform provides broker-dealers and institutional investors with the ability to automate portions of their transaction processing requirements, improving accuracy and efficiency. Through electronic messaging, institutional investors can submit inquiries to, and receive electronic notices of execution from us, in industry standard protocols, complete with all relevant trade details. Institutional investors can download trade messages, allocate trades to the sub-accounts on whose behalf the trades were made and send the allocations to broker-dealers for confirmation.

Technology Products and Services.We provide technology solutions and professional consulting services to fixed-income industry participants.

Robust, Scalable Technology

We have developed proprietary technology that is highly secure, fault-tolerant and provides adequate capacity for our current operations, as well as for substantial growth. Our highly scalable systems are designed to accommodate additional volume, products and clients with relatively little modification and low incremental costs.

Proven Innovator with an Experienced Management Team

Since our inception, we have been an innovator in the fixed-income securities markets. The members of our management team average more than 20 years of experience in the securities industry. We have consistently sought to benefit participants in the markets we serve by attempting to replicate the essential features of fixed-income trading, including the existing relationships between broker-dealers and their institutional investor clients, while applying technology to eliminate weaknesses in traditional trading methods. In 2014, MarketAxess was awarded “OTC Trading Platform of the Year” by Global Capital, and “SEF of the Year” by Risk Magazine.

Some of the innovations we have introduced to electronic trading include:

·the first multi-dealer disclosed trading platform for U.S. high-grade corporate bonds;

·the first electronic Treasury benchmarking for U.S. high-grade corporate bond trades;

·Corporate BondTickerTM, our information services product, combining TRACE bond data with MarketAxess data and analytical tools;

·bid and offer list technology for corporate bond trading, enabling institutional investors to request executable prices for multiple securities simultaneously;

·the first disclosed client to multi-dealer trading platform for credit derivative indices; and






·public Market Lists for corporate bonds, giving institutional investors the ability to display their bid and offer lists anonymously to the entire MarketAxess trading community.

Independence

We believe the current regulatory environment creates competitive advantages for independent companies like us that are less prone to conflicts of interest. As an independent company, we are free to make business and trading protocol decisions with the best interests of both our institutional investor and broker-dealer clients in mind. We are also able to attract industry leaders with valuable skills and insights to our independent Board of Directors.

Our Strategy

Our objective is to provide the leading global electronic trading platform for fixed-income securities, connecting broker-dealers and institutional investors more easily and efficiently, while offering a broad array of information, trading and technology services to market participants across the trading cycle. The key elements of our strategy are:

Enhance the Liquidity of Securities Traded on Our Platform and Broaden Our Client Base in Our Existing Markets

We intend to further enhance the liquidity of securities traded on our leading electronic, multi-dealer to client fixed-income platform. Our ability to innovate and efficiently add new functionality and product offerings to the MarketAxess platform will help us deepen our market share with our existing clients, as well as expand our client base, which we believe will, in turn, lead to even further increases in the liquidity of the securities provided by our broker-dealer clients and available on our platform. We will seek to increase the amount of cross-regional activity by our institutional investor clients on our electronic trading platform, subject to regulatory requirements.

Leverage our Existing Client Network and Technology to Increase Counterparties and Improve Liquidity

Due to regulatory changes that have caused significant reductions in primary dealer corporate bond balance sheets, our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients need new and innovative electronic trading solutions to promote secondary market liquidity. We intend to continue to develop and deploy a wide range of electronic trading protocols to complement our traditional request-for-quote model. These Open Trading™ protocols increase potential trading counterparties by allowing broker-dealers and institutional investors to interact in an all-to-all trading environment. During 2014, we completed approximately 77,000 trades using new electronic Open Trading™ solutions.

Leverage our Existing Technology and Client Relationships to Expand into New Sectors of the Fixed-Income Securities Market

We intend to leverage our technology, as well as our strong broker-dealer and institutional investor relationships, to deploy our electronic trading platform into additional product segments within the fixed-income securities markets and deliver fixed-income securities-related technical services and products. Due in part to our highly scalable systems, we believe we will be able to enter new markets efficiently. As an example, we developed technology and trading protocols to trade credit derivatives in anticipation of implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act. Since October 2013, we have operated a temporarily registered SEF pursuant to CFTC rules and we list credit derivative indices and options for trading by U.S. persons and other participants on our SEF.

Continue to Strengthen and Expand our Trade-Related Service Offerings

We plan to continue building our existing service offerings so that our electronic trading platform is more fully integrated into the workflow of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients. We expect to continue to add functionality to enhance the ability of our clients to achieve a fully automated, end-to-end straight-through processing solution (automation from trade initiation to settlement). We also plan to expand our trade matching and regulatory transaction reporting services provided by Trax®in Europe.

Expand our Data and Information Services Offerings

We regularly add new content and analytical capabilities to Corporate BondTicker™ in order to improve the value of the information we provide to our clients. We plan to expand the data service offering provided by Trax®in Europe, with additional content related to trading volume and pricing. For example, we recently launched Axess 50™, a data tool which provides insights into intra-day activity for a significant subset of the most liquid credit bonds trading in Europe. We intend to continue to widen the user base of our data products and to continue adding new content and analytical capabilities. As the use of our electronic trading platform continues to grow, we believe that the amount and value of our proprietary trading data will also increase, further enhancing the value of our information services offerings to our clients.






Pursue Select Acquisitions and Strategic Alliances

We plan to continue to increase and supplement our internal growth by entering into strategic alliances, or acquiring businesses or technologies, that will enable us to enter new markets, provide new products or services, or otherwise enhance the value of our platform to our clients.

The acquisition of Xtrakter in February 2013 provided us with an expanded set of technology solutions ahead of incoming pre-and post-trade transparency mandates from MiFID II in Europe. In April 2013, we entered into a strategic alliance with BlackRock, Inc. (“Blackrock”) to create a unified, open trading solution designed to help reduce liquidity fragmentation and improve pricing across the U.S. cash credit markets.  In January 2015, we expanded our strategic alliance with BlackRock to include the European cash credit markets.

MarketAxess Electronic Trading Platform

Key Trading Functionalities

The key trading functionalities are detailed below.

Single Inquiry Trading Functionality

We currently offer institutional investors the ability to request bids or offers in a single inquiry from an unlimited number of our broker-dealer clients in many of our key trading products, including for U.S. high-grade corporate bonds.  In certain of our trading products, market convention only allows institutional investor clients to request bids or offers from a subset of the broker-dealer clients on our platform in a single inquiry, depending on the trade size. Institutional investors can obtain bids or offers on any security posted in inventory or included in the database available on our platform.

ASAP and Holding Bin Trading Functionalities

We provide both ASAP (“as soon as possible”) and Holding Bin trading protocols. In the Holding Bin trading protocol, institutional investor clients set the time when they would like all of the broker-dealers’ prices or spreads returned to them, in order to have the ability to see all executable prices available at the same time. In the ASAP trading protocol, institutional investor clients see each broker-dealer’s price or spread as soon as it is entered by the broker-dealer.

List Trading Functionality

We currently offer institutional investors the ability to request bids or offers on a list of up to 40 bonds depending on the market. This facilitates efficient trading for institutional investors such as investment advisors, mutual funds and hedge funds. Institutional investors are able to have multiple lists executable throughout the trading day, enabling them to manage their daily cash flows, portfolio duration, and credit and sector exposure.

Market Lists

We offer institutional investors and broker-dealers the ability to display live requests for bids and offers anonymously to the entire MarketAxess trading community through our Market List functionality, thereby creating broader visibility of their inquiry among market participants and increasing the likelihood that the request results in a trade.

Inventory and Axes

The price discovery process includes the ability to view indications of interest from both broker-dealer clients and institutional investor clients’ inventory on our platform. Through the aggregated indication of interest inventory, clients can search for bonds of interest and engage in electronic transactions.

Click-to-Trade

Our click-to-trade functionality allows our investor clients to initiate an inquiry with a single click on stacks of distinctly displayed dealer bids and offers. In support of this functionality, pools of dealers stream attributable pricing for each instrument. Click-to-trade is offered alongside our existing RFQ product and allows pre-trade price discovery and fast-track execution. Although currently limited to credit derivatives, U.S. Treasuries and emerging markets, click-to-trade functionality may be applied to trading of other market sectors.






Mid-X

We have the ability to offer a session-based matching protocol for bonds that allows counterparties to trade at mid-market prices.

SEF Trading for Credit Derivatives

We offer a range of functionality for electronic trading of CFTC regulated credit derivatives on our SEF in compliance with the CFTC’s requirements. This includes an RFQ system that allows participants to send anonymous or disclosed RFQs, as well as an order book, which enables market participants to trade anonymously with all other market participants.

Central Limit Order Book

We have offered central limit order book (“CLOB”) style trading for bonds and credit derivatives in the past. We currently provide a CLOB for single name credit derivatives. While the characteristics of the corporate bond market have not been conducive to continuous trading (as in equity markets), we believe there is a sub-set of actively traded bonds that could benefit from CLOB trading.

Dealer-to-Dealer Trading

Through our DealerAxess®platform, our broker-dealer clients can access liquidity provided by approximately 100 global, regional and specialist dealers. We offer an anonymous RFQ trading protocol for inter-dealer trading, helping dealers more efficiently manage their bond inventory. We offer trading across a wide range of fixed-income products, including high-grade, high-yield, emerging markets and U.S. agency bonds. Dealers benefit from existing trade routing rules and books, straight-through processing connectivity and trading Application Programming Interfaces “(API”). Bond trades on DealerAxess®executed pursuant to the anonymous protocol are conducted with MarketAxess on a matched principal basis and cleared and settled by a third-party clearing broker.

Key Trading Products

U.S. High-Grade Corporate Bonds

Our U.S. high-grade corporate bond business consists of U.S. dollar-denominated investment-grade debt issued by corporations for distribution in the U.S. Both domestic and foreign institutional investors have access to U.S. high-grade corporate bond trading on our electronic trading platform. Our 2014 trading volume in the U.S. high-grade corporate bond market was $475.4 billion.

In the U.S. high-grade corporate bond market, 68 broker-dealers utilize our platform, including all of the top 20 broker-dealers as ranked by 2014 U.S. corporate bond new-issue underwriting volume. Our broker-dealer clients accounted for approximately 96% of the underwriting of newly-issued U.S. corporate bonds in 2014. More than 600 active institutional investor firms use our platform to trade U.S. high-grade corporate bonds.

We offer our institutional investor clients access to a broad inventory of U.S. high-grade corporate bonds, which is provided and updated daily by our broker-dealer clients. Our electronic trading platform allows institutional investors to view bids and offers from one or more of our broker-dealer clients while permitting each party to know the identity of its counter-party throughout the trading process. Our disclosed inquiry trading functionality combines the strength of existing offline client/dealer relationships with the efficiency and transparency of an electronic trading platform. This enables institutional investors to instantly direct trade inquiries and negotiations to their traditional broker-dealer or to any of the substantial majority of the world’s leading broker-dealers who provide liquidity in these securities. Through our Market List functionality, we also offer institutional investors the ability to display their live requests for bid and offer lists anonymously to the entire MarketAxess trading community as a means of creating broader visibility of their inquiry among market participants and increasing the likelihood that the request results in a trade.

Institutional investors have access to the commingled inventory of both broker-dealer clients and institutional investor clients, representing indicative bids and offers. Each line item of inventory represents an indicative bid and/or offer on a particular bond issue by a particular client. Clients are not restricted to trading only the bonds posted as inventory, although many of the trades conducted on our platform are made from the posted inventory. To transact in a specific bond that does not appear in inventory, institutional investors can easily search our database and submit an online inquiry to their chosen broker-dealers (or to all Open Trading™ participants on our platform), who can respond with live, executable prices. While, on average, institutional investor clients receive several bids or offers from broker-dealers in response to trade inquiries, some inquiries may not receive any bids or offers.

Emerging Markets Bonds

Seventy of our U.S. broker-dealer clients and more than 500 active institutional investor firms use our platform to trade emerging markets bonds. These institutional investor clients are predominantly located in the U.S. and Europe. The emerging markets






countries whose bonds were most frequently traded on our platform in 2014 were Mexico, Brazil, Russia, Venezuela and Turkey. We also allow our institutional investor clients to transact Euroclear-eligible local currency denominated bonds issued by sovereign entities or corporations in countries that include Argentina, Brazil and Mexico.

Crossover and High-Yield Bonds

Sixty-eight of our U.S. broker-dealer clients and more than 500 active institutional investor firms use our platform to trade crossover and high-yield bonds. Trading in crossover and high-yield bonds uses many of the same features available in our U.S. high-grade corporate bond offering.

Eurobonds

MarketAxess Europe Limited, our wholly-owned U.K. subsidiary, offers secondary trading functionality in U.S. dollar- and Euro-denominated European corporate bonds to our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients. We also offer our clients the ability to trade in other European high-grade corporate bonds, including bonds issued in Pounds Sterling, floating rate notes, European government bonds and bonds denominated in non-core currencies. We offered the first platform in Europe with a multi-dealer disclosed counterparty trading capability for corporate bonds. Our European platform supports trading on a matched principal basis, as well as click to trade protocols for the European market.

In the Eurobond credit market, defined as including European high-grade, high-yield and government bonds, 30 broker-dealers utilize our platform, including 19 of the top 20 broker-dealers as ranked by 2014 European corporate new-issue underwriting volume. More than 250 active institutional investor firms use our platform to trade European bonds. While many of the trades conducted on our platform are made from the posted inventory, institutional investor clients are not restricted to trading only the bonds posted as inventory. To transact in a specific bond that does not appear in inventory, institutional investors can easily search our database and submit an online inquiry to their chosen broker-dealers (or to all Open Trading™ participants on our platform), who can respond with live, executable prices. While, on average, institutional investor clients receive several bids or offers from broker-dealers in response to trade inquiries, some inquiries may not receive any bids or offers.

U.S. Agency Bonds

Forty-one of our U.S. broker-dealer clients and approximately 300 active institutional investor firms use our platform to trade U.S. agency bonds. Trading in U.S. agency bonds uses many of the same features available in our U.S. high-grade corporate bond offering.

Credit Derivatives

MarketAxess offers a complete solution for the trading of clearable and non-clearable credit derivative instruments, including indices, single-name swaps and index options. Through our CFTC-registered SEF, we offer trading of credit derivative indices and credit options to approximately 150 market participants.  We support the trading of single-name credit derivatives through our traditional RFQ protocol, as well as through a CLOB.

Information and Post-Trade Services

Information Services

Corporate BondTickerTMprovides real-time TRACE data and enhances it with MarketAxess trade data and analytical tools in order to provide professional market participants with a comprehensive set of corporate bond price information. The data includes trade time and sales information, including execution prices, as well as MarketAxess-estimated spread-to-Treasuries, for trades disseminated by the TRACE system. The data also includes actual execution prices and spread-to-Treasury levels for U.S. high-grade corporate bond trades executed on the MarketAxess platform. Corporate BondTickerTMis currently the source of corporate bond trading information forThe Wall Street Journalin the U.S.

Corporate BondTickerTMallows institutional investors to search for and sort bonds based upon specific criteria, such as volume, time/date of transaction, spread change, issuer or security. This search function allows institutional investors to compile information relating to potential securities trades in a fraction of the time that it takes to manually compile this information from disparate sources or other electronic databases, including direct TRACE feeds.

Corporate BondTickerTMalso contains pricing information on a broad selection of European fixed-income securities. European pricing information is provided by Trax’s end-of-day pricing feed, XM2M.

Corporate BondTickerTMis integrated directly into the MarketAxess electronic trading platform and can be seamlessly accessed, either when viewing securities inventory or when launching an inquiry. Corporate BondTickerTMis also available through the Internet






for non-trading professional market participants, including, among others, research analysts and rating agencies, who can log in and access the information via a browser-based interface.

We provide Corporate BondTickerTMas an ancillary service to our trading clients and also to other industry participants. We derive revenues from our Corporate BondTickerTMservice by charging for seat licenses per user at our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients, through distribution agreements with other information service providers and through bulk data sales to third parties. Seat license fees are waived for clients that transact a sufficient volume of trades through MarketAxess.

We also offer a comprehensive set of reports designed to review and monitor credit trading activity for institutional investor clients. These reports utilize extensive TRACE information and have a flexible interface to run and save in a variety of formats for both compliance and management reporting. For example, the best execution report provides a view of the savings generated by trading on our electronic trading platform and offers a quantitative measure of the value of price discovery from multiple dealers. The report allows clients to monitor performance against their own best execution policy. Our compliance product provides a printed history of each inquiry submitted through the MarketAxess trading platform.

Through our Trax®brand, we provide a range of information solutions for financial services firms, utilizing quotes contributed by dealers and leveraging our trade matching and regulatory transaction reporting services for European securities. We provide market participants with access to pricing, liquidity and volume data on over 50,000 unique fixed-income securities. We also provide access to securities reference data on approximately 300,000 fixed-income securities.

Post-Trade Services

Our Trax®service provides post-trade, pre-settlement trade matching and regulatory transaction reporting services for the European OTC markets. Subscribers use the Trax®platform to match and report trades in a range of capital market instruments, including bonds, derivatives, equities and swaps. Trax®has over 190 subscribers, including broker-dealers, hedge funds and investment banks. The Trax®platform processed over 1.1 billion transactions in 2014.

Straight-Through Processing and APIs

Straight-through processing refers to the integration of systems and processes to automate the trade process from end-to-end — trade execution, confirmation and settlement — without the need for manual intervention. There are two elements of straight-through processing: internal straight-through processing and external straight-through processing. Internal straight-through processing relates to the trade and settlement processes that are internal to an industry participant. For example, in the case of an institutional investor, this includes authorization of orders, placement of orders with broker-dealers, receipt of execution details and allocation of trades. External straight-through processing refers to connecting seamlessly to all external counterparts in the trading and settlement process.

Automation by way of straight-through processing improves efficiency throughout the trade cycle. We provide broker-dealers and institutional investors with a range of tools that facilitate straight-through processing, including order upload, easy-to-use online allocation tools and pre- and post-trade messaging features that enable institutional investors to communicate electronically between front- and back-office systems, thereby integrating the order, portfolio management and accounting systems of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients in real time. Our straight-through processing tools can be customized to meet specific needs of clients. We continue to build industry partnerships to assist our clients in creating connectivity throughout the trade cycle. Through these partnerships, we are increasingly providing solutions that can quickly be deployed within our clients’ trading operations.

Usage of our straight-through processing tools increased significantly during the last several years. The number of investor client STP connections increased to 425 as of December 31, 2014 from 244 as of December 31, 2010. In addition, many of our broker-dealer clients use our API services for pre-trade, trade negotiation and post-trade services to improve efficiency and reduce errors in processing.

Sales and Marketing

We promote our products and services using a variety of direct and indirect sales and marketing strategies. Our sales force is responsible for client acquisition activity and for increasing use of our trading platform and information and post-trade services by our existing clients. Their goal is to train and support existing and new clients on how to use our system and to educate them as to the benefits of utilizing an electronic fixed-income trading platform. We employ various strategies, including advertising, direct marketing, promotional mailings, and participation in industry conferences and media engagement, to increase awareness of our brand and our electronic trading platform. For example, we have worked with The Wall Street Journal to establish Corporate BondTickerTMas the source of information for its daily corporate bond and high-yield tables. A similar process also exists for our Trax®post-trade business, employing both direct and indirect sales methods.






Competition

The industry that we participate in is highly competitive and we expect competition to intensify in the future. We face five main areas of competition:

·Telephone— We compete with bond trading business conducted over the telephone between broker-dealers and their institutional investor clients. Institutional investors have historically purchased fixed-income securities by telephoning bond sales professionals at one or more broker-dealers and inquiring about the price and availability of individual bonds. This remains the manner in which the majority of corporate bonds are still traded between institutional investors and broker-dealers.

·E-mail— We compete with bond trading business conducted via e-mail between broker-dealers and their institutional investor clients. E-mail provides an efficient means of initiating product and price discovery with a large universe of potential trading partners.

·Other electronic trading platforms— There are numerous other electronic trading platforms currently in existence, including several that have only commenced, or announced an intention to launch, operations in the last twelve months. Among others, Thomson TradeWeb and Bloomberg operate- multi-dealer to institutional investor trading platforms for both fixed-income securities and derivatives. The New York Stock Exchange also offers exchange-style trading for corporate bonds. In addition, some broker-dealers and institutional investors operate proprietary electronic trading systems that enable institutional investors to trade directly with a broker-dealer, and/or with other institutional investors over an electronic medium. As we expand our business into new products, we will likely come into more direct competition with other electronic trading platforms or firms offering traditional services.

·Market data and information vendors— Several large market data and information providers currently have a data and analytics relationship with virtually every institutional firm. Some of these entities, including Bloomberg, currently offer varying forms of electronic trading of fixed-income securities, mostly on a single-dealer basis. Some of these entities have announced their intention to expand their electronic trading platforms or to develop new platforms. These entities are currently direct competitors to our information services business and already are or may in the future become direct competitors to our electronic trading platform.

·Other approved regulatory mechanisms— We compete with other approved regulatory mechanisms in Europe that have the FCA’s ARM designation and provide post-trade matching and regulatory transaction reporting services, including the London Stock Exchange’s UnaVista.

Competitors, including companies in which some of our broker-dealer clients have invested, have developed electronic trading platforms or have announced their intention to explore the development of electronic trading platforms that compete or will compete with us. Furthermore, our broker-dealer clients have made, and may in the future continue to make, investments in or enter into agreements with other businesses that directly or indirectly compete with us.

In general, we compete on the basis of a number of key factors, including:

·broad network of broker-dealer and institutional investor clients using our electronic trading platform;

·liquidity provided by the participating broker-dealers and, to a growing extent, by other institutional investors;

·magnitude and frequency of price improvement;

·enhancing the quality and speed of execution;

·compliance benefits;

·total transaction costs;

·technology capabilities, including the reliability and ease of use of our electronic trading platform; and

·range of products, protocols and services offered.

We believe that our ability to grow volumes and revenues will largely depend on our performance with respect to these factors.

Our competitive position is also enhanced by the familiarity and integration of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients with our electronic trading platform and other systems. We have focused on the unique aspects of the credit markets we serve in the development of our platform, working closely with our clients to provide a system that is suited to their needs.






Our broker-dealer clients have invested in building API’s with us for inventory contributions, electronic trading, government bond benchmark pricing and post-trade messaging. We believe that we have successfully built deep roots with our broker-dealer clients, increasing our level of service to them while at the same time increasing their commitment to our services.

Furthermore, 425 of our institutional investor firms have built interfaces to enable them to communicate electronically between our platform and their order, portfolio management and accounting systems. We believe that this increases the reliance of these institutional investor firms on our services and creates significant competitive barriers to entry.

Technology

The design and quality of our technology products are critical to our growth and our ability to execute our business strategy. Our electronic trading platform has been designed with secure, scalable client-server architecture that makes broad use of distributed computing to achieve speed, reliability and fault tolerance. The platform is built on industry-standard technologies and has been designed to handle many multiples of our current trading volume.

All critical server-side components, primarily our networks, application servers and databases, have backup equipment running in the event that the main equipment fails. This offers fully redundant system capacity to maximize uptime and minimize the potential for loss of transaction data in the event of an internal failure. We also seek to minimize the impact of external failures by automatically recovering connections in the event of a communications failure. The majority of our broker-dealer clients have redundant dedicated high-speed communication paths to our network in order to provide fast data transfer. Our security measures include industry-standard communications encryption.

We have designed our application with an easy-to-use, Windows-based interface. Our clients are able to access our electronic trading platform through a secure, single sign-on. Clients are also able to execute transactions over our platform directly from their order management systems. We provide users an automatic software update feature that does not require manual intervention.

Intellectual Property

We rely upon a combination of copyright, patent, trade secret and trademark laws, written agreements and common law to protect our proprietary technology, processes and other intellectual property. Our software code, elements of our electronic trading platform, website and other proprietary materials are protected by copyright laws. We have been issued 13 patents covering our most significant trading protocols and other aspects of our trading system technology.

The written agreements upon which we rely to protect our proprietary technology, processes and intellectual property include agreements designed to protect our trade secrets. Examples of these written agreements include third party nondisclosure agreements, employee nondisclosure and inventions assignment agreements, and agreements with customers, contractors and strategic partners. Other written agreements upon which we rely to protect our proprietary technology, processes and intellectual property take many forms and contain provisions related to patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret rights.

We have obtained U.S. federal registration of the MarketAxess®name and logo, and the same mark and logo have been registered in several foreign jurisdictions. In addition, we have obtained U.S. federal registration for the marks AutoSpotting®, FrontPage®, Actives®, DealerAxess®,Trax®,Trade ON®, LiquidityBridge®and associated designs and have a number of other registered trademarks and service marks. Corporate BondTickerTM, MarketAxess Open TradingTMand Axess 50TMare trademarks we use, but they have not been registered.

In addition to our efforts to register our intellectual property, we believe that factors such as the technological and creative skills of our personnel, new product and service developments, frequent enhancements and reliability with respect to our services are essential to establishing and maintaining a technology and market leadership position.

Government Regulation

The securities industry and financial markets in the U.S. and elsewhere are subject to extensive regulation. As a matter of public policy, regulatory bodies in the U.S. and the rest of the world are charged with safeguarding the integrity of the securities and other financial markets and with protecting the interests of investors participating in those markets. Our active broker-dealer subsidiaries fall within the scope of their regulations.






Regulation of the U.S. Securities Industry and Broker-Dealers

In the U.S., the SEC is the governmental agency responsible for the administration of the federal securities laws. One of our U.S. subsidiaries, MarketAxess Corporation, is registered with the SEC as a broker-dealer and an alternative trading system operator. It is also a member of FINRA, a self-regulatory organization to which most broker-dealers belong. In addition, MarketAxess Corporation is a member of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation, which provides certain protection for clients’ accounts in the event of a liquidation of a broker-dealer to the extent any such accounts are held by the broker-dealer.

Additionally, MarketAxess Corporation is registered with certain states and the District of Columbia as a broker-dealer. The individual states and the District of Columbia are responsible for the administration of their respective “blue sky” laws, rules and regulations.

In July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law. Among the most significant aspects of the derivatives section of the Dodd-Frank Act are mandatory clearing of swaps through regulated central clearing organizations and mandatory trading of those swaps through either regulated exchanges or SEFs, in each case, subject to certain key exceptions. In September 2013, the CFTC granted temporary registration to MarketAxess SEF Corporation, our wholly-owned U.S. subsidiary, to operate a SEF for the trading of swaps subject to the CFTC’s jurisdiction. The CFTC’s rules relating to the trading of swaps on SEFs were implemented in October 2013 and, in February 2014, certain credit derivatives became subject to the CFTC’s ‘made available for trade’ determination and were thereafter required to be executed on a SEF or designated contract market. The SEC has not yet finalized its rules for security-based SEFs, nor has it published a timetable for the finalization and implementation of such rules. No assurance can be given regarding when, whether or in what form the remaining rules regarding the new regulatory regime for the swaps marketplace will be finalized or implemented.

Various rules promulgated since the financial crisis could adversely affect our bank-affiliated broker-dealer clients’ ability to make markets in a variety of fixed-income securities, thereby negatively impacting the level of liquidity and pricing available on our trading platform. For example, the Volcker Rule promulgated under the Dodd-Frank Act bans proprietary trading by banks and their affiliates. In addition, enhanced leverage ratios applicable to large banking organizations in the U.S. and Europe require such organizations to strengthen their balance sheets and may limit their ability or willingness to make markets on our trading platform. We cannot predict the extent to which these rules or any future regulatory changes may adversely affect our business and operations.

Regulation of the Non-U.S. Securities Industries and Investment Service Providers

The securities industry and financial markets in the U.K., the EU and elsewhere are subject to extensive regulation. Our principal regulator in the U.K. is the FCA. MarketAxess Europe Limited is registered as a MTF with the FCA and Xtrakter Limited is registered as an Approved Reporting Mechanism with the FCA. Xtrakter also has “recognized status” in France, the Netherlands and Belgium in connection with the submission of transaction reports to regulators.

The securities industry in the member states of the EU is regulated by agencies in each member state. EU measures provide for the mutual recognition of regulatory agencies and of prudential supervision making possible the grant of a single authorization for providers of investment services, which, in general, is valid throughout the EU. As an FCA approved MTF, MarketAxess Europe Limited receives the benefit of this authorization.

Similar to the U.S., regulatory bodies in Europe are developing new rules for the fixed-income markets, including changes to market structure, transparency requirements for fixed-income instruments, derivatives trading and post-trade reporting obligations. In June 2014, the final texts of MiFID II and Markets in Financial Instruments Regulation (“MiFIR”) were published in the Official Journal of the European Union.  A large amount of implementation work is left to be completed and the rules of MiFID II and MiFIR will not take effect for 30 months after publication, or until January 2017. MiFID II introduces changes in market structure designed to: (i) enhance pre- and post-trade transparency for fixed income instruments with the scope of requirements calibrated for liquidity, (ii) increase and enhance post-trade reporting obligationswith a requirement to submit post-trade data to Approved Reporting Mechanisms, (iii) ensure trading of certain derivatives occurs on regulated trading venues and (iv) establish a consolidated tape for trade data.  We cannot predict the extent to which any of these future regulatory changes may adversely affect our European business and operations.

Our Canadian subsidiary, MarketAxess Canada Company, is registered as an Alternative Trading System dealer under the Securities Act of Ontario and is a member of the Investment Industry Regulatory Organization of Canada.






Employees

As of December 31, 2014, we had 303 employees, 187 of whom were based in the U.S. and 116 of whom were based outside of the U.S., principally in the U.K. None of our employees is represented by a labor union. We consider our relationships with our employees to be good and have not experienced any interruptions of operations due to labor disagreements.

Company Information

MarketAxess was incorporated in Delaware in April 2000. Our Internet website address is www.marketaxess.com. Through our Internet website, we will make available, free of charge, the following reports as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing them with, or furnishing them to, the SEC: our annual report on Form 10-K; our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q; our current reports on Form 8-K; and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Our Proxy Statements for our Annual Meetings are also available through our Internet website. Our Internet website and the information contained therein or connected thereto are not intended to be incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. You may also obtain copies of our reports without charge by writing to:

MarketAxess Holdings Inc.

299 Park Avenue

New York, NY 10171

Attn: Investor Relations

Our Board of Directors has standing Audit, Compensation, Nominating and Corporate Governance, Risk, Mergers and Acquisitions and Investment Committees. Each of these committees has a written charter approved by our Board of Directors. Our Board of Directors has also adopted a set of Corporate Governance Guidelines. Copies of the committee charters for the Audit, Compensation and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees, along with the Corporate Governance Guidelines, are also posted on our website.

You may read and copy any document we file with the SEC at the SEC’s public reference room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for information on the public reference room. The SEC maintains an Internet website that contains annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and information statements and other information that issuers (including the Company) file electronically with the SEC. The SEC’s internet website is www.sec.gov.










