Item 1.Business.

MarketAxess Holdings Inc. (the “Company” or “MarketAxess”) operates a leading electronic trading platform that enables
fixed-income market participants to efficiently trade corporate bonds and other types of fixed-income instruments using our patented trading technology. Our over 1,000 active institutional investor firms (firms that executed at least one trade in
U.S. or European fixed-income securities through our electronic trading platform during 2013) include investment advisers, mutual funds, insurance companies, public and private pension funds, bank portfolios, broker-dealers and hedge funds. Our 90
broker-dealer market-maker clients provide liquidity on the platform and include most of the leading broker-dealers in global fixed-income trading. We also execute certain bond transactions between and among institutional investor and broker-dealer
clients on a riskless principal basis by serving as counterparty to both the buyer and the seller in trades which then settle through a third-party clearing organization. We provide fixed-income market data analytics and compliance tools that help
our clients make trading decisions. We also provide trade matching and regulatory transaction reporting services to the securities markets. In addition, we provide technology solutions and professional consulting services to fixed-income industry
participants.

Our multi-dealer trading platform allows our institutional investor clients to simultaneously request competing, executable
bids or offers from our broker-dealer clients and execute trades with the broker-dealer of their choice from among those that choose to respond. We offer our broker-dealer clients a solution that enables them to efficiently reach our institutional
investor clients for the distribution and trading of bonds. Our trading platform provides access to global liquidity in U.S. high-grade corporate bonds, emerging markets and high-yield bonds, European bonds, U.S. agency bonds, credit default swaps
(“CDS”) and other fixed-income securities.

The majority of our revenues are derived from commissions for trades executed on our
platform and distribution fees that are billed to our broker-dealer clients on a monthly basis. We also derive revenues from information and post-trade services, technology products and services, investment income and other income. Our expenses
consist of employee compensation and benefits, depreciation and amortization, technology and communication expenses, professional and consulting fees, occupancy, marketing and advertising and other general and administrative expenses.

Traditionally, bond trading has been a manual process, with product and price discovery conducted over the telephone between two or more
parties. This traditional process has a number of shortcomings resulting primarily from the lack of a central trading facility for these securities, which creates difficulty matching buyers and sellers for particular issues. Many corporate bond
trading participants use e-mail and other electronic means of communication for trading corporate bonds. While this has addressed some of the shortcomings associated with traditional corporate bond trading, we believe that the process is still
hindered by limited liquidity, limited price transparency, significant transaction costs, compliance and regulatory challenges, and difficulty in executing numerous trades at one time.

Through our disclosed multi-dealer Request For Quote (“RFQ”) trading functionality, our institutional investor clients can determine
prices available for a security, a process called price discovery, as well as trade securities directly with our broker-dealer clients. The price discovery process includes the ability to view indicative prices from the broker-dealer clients’
inventory available on our platform, access to real-time pricing information and analytical tools (including spread-to-Treasury data, search capabilities and independent third-party credit research) available on our Corporate BondTickerTMservice and the ability to request executable bids and offers simultaneously from up to 67 of our broker-dealer clients during the trade process. On average, institutional investor clients receive
several bids or offers from broker-dealer clients in response to trade inquiries. However, some trade inquiries may not receive any bids or offers.







Our services relating to trade execution include single and multiple-dealer inquiries; list
trading, which is the ability to request bids and offers on multiple bonds at the same time; and swap trading, which is the ability to request an offer to purchase one bond and a bid to sell another bond, in a manner such that the two trades will be
executed simultaneously, with payment based on the price differential of the bonds. Once a trade is completed on our platform, the broker-dealer client and institutional investor client may settle the trade with the assistance of our automated
post-trade messaging, which facilitates the communication of trade acknowledgment and allocation information between our institutional investor and broker-dealer clients.

We estimate that outstanding U.S. high-grade corporate bond debt has increased approximately 60% from year-end 2008 to year-end
2013. During this same period, financial market regulators have increased capital requirements for bank-owned broker-dealers holding corporate bond inventory. As a result, corporate bond debt owned by institutional investors has increased,
while the available base of capital for dealer market making has declined. Partly as a result of these trends, overall secondary turnover as a percentage of corporate debt outstanding has been falling, causing all market participants to look
for new electronic trading solutions to improve liquidity and turnover. We have responded with a series of new MarketAxess Open TradingTMprotocols designed to allow our broker-dealers and
institutional investor clients to operate in an all-to-all trading environment. These innovative technology solutions are designed to increase potential trading counterparties on our electronic trading platform, and create a menu of solutions
to address different trade sizes and bond liquidity characteristics. During 2013, we completed approximately 14,000 trades utilizing new electronic Open Trading solutions, including Market Lists.

Typically, we are not a party to the trades that occur on our platform between institutional investor clients and broker-dealer clients;
rather, we serve as an intermediary between broker-dealers and institutional investors, enabling them to meet, agree on a price and then transact with each other. However, we also execute certain bond transactions between and among institutional
investor and broker-dealer clients on a riskless principal basis by serving as counterparty to both the buyer and the seller in matching back-to-back trades which are then settled through a third-party clearing organization.

Our broker-dealer clients accounted for approximately 97% of the underwriting of newly-issued U.S. corporate bonds and approximately 70% of
the underwriting of newly issued European corporate bonds in 2013. We believe these broker-dealers also represent the principal source of secondary market liquidity in the other markets in which we operate. Secondary market liquidity refers to the
ability of market participants to buy or sell a security quickly and in large volume subsequent to the original issuance of the security, without substantially affecting the price of the security. In addition to trading fixed-income securities by
traditional means, including the telephone and e-mail, our broker-dealer clients use proprietary single-dealer systems and other trading platforms as well as our electronic trading platform. We believe that the traditional means of trading remain
the manner in which the majority of bonds are traded between institutional investors and broker-dealers.

Our volume in U.S. high-grade
corporate bonds represented approximately 13.8% of the total U.S. high-grade corporate bond volume, excluding convertible bonds, for 2013, as reported by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”) Trade Reporting and Compliance
Engine (“TRACE”), which includes inter-dealer and retail trading as well as trading between institutional investors and broker-dealers. TRACE facilitates the mandatory reporting of over-the-counter secondary market transactions in eligible
fixed-income securities in the U.S. All broker-dealers that are FINRA member firms have an obligation to report transactions in corporate bonds to TRACE under a set of rules approved by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).

In February 2013, we acquired Xtrakter Limited (“Xtrakter”) from Euroclear S.A./N.V. Xtrakter is a U.K.-based provider of trade
matching and regulatory transaction reporting services for European securities and market and reference data across a range of fixed-income products. The acquisition of Xtrakter provides the Company with an expanded set of technology solutions
ahead of incoming pre-and post-trade transparency mandates from the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive II in Europe. The aggregate purchase price was $37.8 million in cash, net of acquired cash.







Industry Background

Fixed-income securities are issued by corporations, governments and other entities, and pay a pre-set absolute or relative rate of return. As
of September 30, 2013, the most recent date available, there were approximately $39.5 trillion principal amount of fixed-income securities outstanding in the U.S. market, including $9.6 trillion principal amount of U.S. corporate bonds,
according to the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association (“SIFMA”). The estimated average daily trading volume of U.S. corporate bonds (investment-grade and high-yield), as measured by TRACE, was $17.0 billion in 2013.

Primary dealer holdings of U.S. corporate bonds (investment-grade and high-yield) as reported by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York
were $21.0 billion as of December 31, 2013. This represents less than two days of trading volume as measured by TRACE. The trading volume of U.S. high-grade corporate bonds as reported by TRACE increased to approximately $3.2 trillion for the
year ended December 31, 2013, compared to $2.9 trillion for each of the prior four calendar years. The European credit markets saw moderate improvement in 2013 as credit spreads tightened throughout the year.

U.S. High-Grade Corporate Bond Market

The U.S. corporate bond market consists of three broad categories of securities: investment-grade debt (so-called “high-grade”),
which typically refers to debt rated BBB- or better by Standard & Poor’s or Baa3 or better by Moody’s Investor Service; debt rated below investment-grade (so-called “high-yield”), which typically refers to debt rated
lower than BBB- by Standard & Poor’s or Baa3 by Moody’s Investor Service; and debt convertible into equity (so-called “convertible debt”). We use the terms high-grade debt and investment-grade debt interchangeably in
this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

The U.S. high-grade corporate bond market, which represents the largest subset of the U.S. corporate
bond market, has undergone significant change, which has been driven by a number of factors, including:



•Improved price transparency— In 2002, FINRA adopted TRACE reporting, which requires FINRA members to report secondary market transactions in certain fixed-income securities to FINRA. The list of
TRACE-eligible bonds includes 31,000 unique securities, representing the majority of the daily trading volume of high-grade bonds.



•Electronic trading platforms— Electronic trading platforms act as central facilities to bring together buyers and sellers. The actions of participants on these platforms are facilitated by an electronic
medium that improves some of the manual processes that might otherwise be required, such as searching for securities with specific characteristics, the coordination of multiple bilateral telephone calls or electronic communications, the sorting and
analysis of competing bids or offers, and the entry of orders into the trading system after verbal or e-mail trade agreement. As a result, these platforms typically provide a lower-cost and more efficient means of enhanced distribution and trade
execution than previously possible.



•Decreased use of credit derivatives— Credit derivatives can provide increased flexibility and liquidity for investors and lenders to diversify their credit exposures. Activity in the CDS market has fallen
substantially since 2007 due to concern over the risks associated with these products, in particular the counterparty credit risks, and uncertainty regarding the effect of changes to the market resulting from implementation of the Dodd-Frank Wall
Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), which was enacted during 2010.



•Total amount of debt issued and outstanding— High-grade corporate bond issuance of $754.0 billion during 2009 was 24% below the 2007 pre-crisis level, as risk aversion among corporate bond investors limited
the ability of issuers across a wide range of industries, in particular those in the financial services industry, to issue new corporate bonds. New issues of high-grade corporate bonds were relatively stable over the next two years ended
December 31, 2011. Over the last two years, high-grade corporate bond issuance was over $1.0 trillion, exceeding pre-crisis levels. We estimate that U.S. high-grade corporate bond debt outstanding has increased approximately 60% from year-end
2008 to year-end 2013.

Emerging Markets Bond Market

We define the emerging markets bond market generally to include U.S. dollar, Euro or local currency denominated bonds issued by sovereign
entities or corporations domiciled in a developing country. These issuers are typically located in Latin America, Asia, or Central and Eastern Europe. Examples of countries we classify as emerging markets include: Argentina, Brazil, Colombia,
Mexico, Peru, the Philippines, Russia, Turkey and Venezuela.

The institutional investor base for emerging markets bonds includes many
crossover investors from the high-yield and high-grade investment areas. Institutional investors have been drawn to emerging markets bonds by their high returns and high growth potential. The average daily trading volume of emerging markets external
and local markets debt as reported by the Emerging Markets Trade Association for the quarter ended September 30, 2013, the most recent date available, was $6.9 billion and $12.8 billion, respectively.







Crossover and High-Yield Bond Market

We define the high-yield bond market generally to include all debt rated lower than BBB- by Standard & Poor’s or Baa3 by
Moody’s Investor Service. We define the crossover market to include any debt issue rated below investment-grade by one agency but investment-grade by the other. The total amount of high-yield corporate bonds yearly issuance as reported by SIFMA
declined by 68% to $43.0 billion during 2008 from $136.0 billion in 2007, primarily due to the risk aversion among corporate bond investors that severely limited the ability of high-yield issuers to raise new debt. The high-yield corporate bond
markets demonstrated significant improvement beginning in 2009, with new issuance for the year ended December 31, 2013 increasing to $336.5 billion as reported by SIFMA.

FINRA publicly disseminates real-time price information on approximately 5,000 high-yield corporate bond issues and disseminates price
information about certain other transactions on a delayed basis. Trades in bonds rated BB and lower are subject to immediate dissemination if the trade size is less than $1 million, or greater than $1 million and the bond trades an average of once
or more a day. The average daily trading volume of high-yield bonds as measured by TRACE for the year ended December 31, 2013 was approximately $4.2 billion.

European High-Grade Corporate Bond Market

The European high-grade corporate bond market consists of a broad range of products, issuers and currencies. We define the European high-grade
corporate bond market generally to consist of bonds intended to be distributed to European investors, primarily bonds issued by European corporations, excluding bonds that are issued by corporations domiciled in an emerging markets country and
excluding most government bonds that trade in Europe. Examples include:



•bonds issued by European corporations, denominated in any currency;



•bonds generally denominated in Euros, U.S. dollars or Pounds Sterling, excluding bonds that are issued by corporations domiciled in an emerging market;



•bonds issued by supra-national organizations (entities that include a number of central banks or government financial authorities, such as the World Bank), agencies and governments located in Europe, generally
denominated in Euros, U.S. dollars or Pounds Sterling, provided that such currency is not the currency of the country where the bond was issued; and



•floating-rate notes issued by European corporations.

We believe that the European high-grade
corporate bond market is impacted by many of the same factors as the U.S. high-grade corporate bond market.

U.S. Agency Bond Market

We define the U.S. agency bond market to include debt issued by a U.S. government-sponsored enterprise. Some prominent issuers of
agency bonds are the Federal National Mortgage Association (“Fannie Mae”) and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (“Freddie Mac”). The total amount of U.S. agency bonds outstanding was approximately $2.1 trillion as of
September 30, 2013 as reported by SIFMA. The average daily trading volume of U.S. agency bonds (excluding mortgage-backed securities) as measured by TRACE for the year ended December 31, 2013 was approximately $7.2 billion.

Credit Default Swap Market







Similar to the U.S., regulatory bodies in Europe and elsewhere are developing new rules for
derivatives trading. For example, the European Parliament and the EU Council of Ministers endorsed an agreement in 2012 that will, among other things, require central clearing of standardized OTC derivatives and the reporting of all derivatives (OTC
or otherwise) to trade repositories. However, it is not yet clear whether there will be any requirement in the EU to trade standardized derivative contracts on regulated exchanges or trading platforms.

Trade Matching and Regulatory Transaction Reporting Services

Trade matching is an operational risk management tool that enables counterparties to agree the terms of a trade shortly after execution,
reducing the risk of errors and a trade failing during settlement.

Adopted in late 2007, the pan-European Markets in Financial
Instruments Directive II (“MiFID II”), which sets best-execution requirements for trades, mandates that financial firms submit to their local regulators detailed end-of-day reports including the time, and price of a trade, the counterparty
involved and whether it was a purchase or sale. Firms must either become so-called accredited regulatory mechanisms (“ARMs”) or use one of the accredited providers. In most cases, both the fund manager and its executing broker-dealer or
bank must include the same details of the same trade on their respective transaction reports. In the U.K. required transactions are reported to the Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”) (formerly the Financial Services Authority).

Our Competitive Strengths

Our electronic
trading platform provides solutions to some of the shortcomings of traditional bond trading methods. The benefits of our solution are demonstrable throughout the trading cycle:



•Pre-trade— gathering real-time and historical pricing information, accessing liquidity and identifying interested buyers and sellers in a particular security, and obtaining research and analysis;



•Trade— single and multiple security trade execution; and



•Post-trade— trade detail matching, account allocation and automated audit trail to, among other things, demonstrate best execution.

We believe that we are well positioned to strengthen our market position in electronic trading in our existing products and to extend our
presence into new products and services by capitalizing on our competitive strengths, including:

Significant Trading Volumes with
Participation by Leading Broker-Dealers and Institutional Investors

Our electronic trading platform provides access to the
liquidity provided through the participation on our platform of 90 broker-dealer market-making clients, including substantially all of the leading broker-dealers in global fixed-income trading, and over 1,000 active institutional investor firms. We
believe these broker-dealers represent the principal source of secondary market liquidity for U.S. high-grade corporate bonds, emerging markets and high-yield bonds, European high-grade corporate bonds and the other markets in which we operate. Our
broker-dealer clients are motivated to continue to utilize our platform due to the presence on the platform of our large network of institutional investor clients.







Our total bond trading volume increased from $298.3 billion in 2009 to $693.7 billion in 2013, as
indicated below:





Our estimated share of U.S. high-grade and high-yield corporate bond volume for 2013 was approximately
13.8% and 5.2%, respectively. The increases were due in part to improved U.S. credit market conditions, increased client order flow and higher order execution rates. Our estimated market share from 2009 to 2013 is shown in the chart below:











Execution Benefits to Clients

Benefits to Institutional Investor Clients

We believe we provide numerous benefits to our institutional investor clients over traditional fixed-income trading methods, including:

Competitive Prices.By enabling institutional investors to simultaneously request bids or offers from our broker-dealer clients, we
believe our electronic trading platform creates an environment that motivates our broker-dealer clients to provide competitive prices and gives institutional investors confidence that they are obtaining a competitive price. For typical MarketAxess
multi-dealer corporate bond inquiries, the range of competitive spread-to-Treasury responses is, on average, approximately 10 basis points (a basis point is 1/100 of 1% in yield). As an example of the potential cost savings to institutional
investors, a one basis point savings on a $1 million face amount trade of a bond with 10 years to maturity translates to aggregate savings of approximately $800.00.

Transparent Pricing on a Range of Securities.The commingled multi-dealer inventory of bonds posted by our broker-dealer clients on our
platform consists of a daily average of more than $60 billion in indicative bids and offers. Subject to applicable regulatory requirements, institutional investors can search bonds in inventory based on any combination of issuer, issue, rating,
maturity, spread-to-Treasury, size and dealer providing the listing, in a fraction of the time it takes to do so manually. Institutional investor clients can also request executable bids and offers on our electronic trading platform on any debt
security in a database of U.S. and European corporate bonds, although there can be no assurance as to the number of broker-dealers who will choose to provide an executable price. Our platform transmits bid and offer requests in real-time to
broker-dealer clients, who may respond with executable prices within the time period specified by the institutional investor. Institutional investors may also elect to display live requests for bids or offers anonymously to all other users of our
electronic trading platform, in order to create broader visibility of their inquiry among market participants and increase the likelihood that the request results in a trade. We believe that broader participation in client inquiries will result in
more trade matches and lower transaction costs.

Improved Cost Efficiency.We believe that we provide improved efficiency by
reducing the time and labor required to conduct broad product and price discovery. Single-security and multi-security (bid or offer lists) inquiries can be efficiently conducted with multiple broker-dealers. In addition, our Corporate BondTickerTMeliminates the need for manually-intensive phone calls or e-mail communication to gather, sort and analyze information concerning historical transaction prices.

Benefits to Broker-Dealer Clients

We also provide substantial benefits to our broker-dealer clients over traditional fixed-income trading methods, including:

Greater Sales Efficiency.We offer our broker-dealer clients broad connectivity with our institutional investor clients. Through this
connectivity, our broker-dealer clients are able to efficiently display their indications of interest to buy and sell various securities. We also enable broker-dealers to broaden their distribution by participating in transactions to which they
otherwise may not have had access. In addition, the ability to post prices and electronically execute on straightforward trades enables bond sales professionals at broker-dealer firms to focus their efforts on more profitable activities, such as
higher value-added trades and more complex transactions.

More Efficient Inventory Management.The posting of inventory to, and the
ability to respond to inquiries from, a broad pool of institutional investors, creates an increased opportunity for broker-dealers to identify demand for their inventory, particularly in less liquid securities. As a result, we believe they can
achieve enhanced bond inventory turnover, which may limit credit exposure.

Benefits to Both Institutional Investor and Broker-Dealer
Clients

We offer additional benefits over traditional fixed-income trading methods that are shared by both institutional investor and
broker-dealer clients, including:

Greater Trading Accuracy.Our electronic trading platform includes verification mechanisms at
various stages of the execution process which result in greater accuracy in the processing, confirming and clearing of trades between institutional investor and broker-dealer clients. These verification mechanisms are designed to ensure that our
broker-dealer and institutional investor clients are sending accurate trade messages by providing multiple opportunities to verify they are trading the correct bond, at the agreed-upon price and size. Our platform assists our institutional investor
clients in automating the transmittal of order tickets from the portfolio manager to the trader, and from the trader to back-office personnel. This automation provides more timely execution and a reduction in the likelihood of errors that can result
from manual entry of information into different systems.







Efficient Risk Monitoring and Compliance.Institutional investors and their regulators are
increasingly focused on ensuring that best execution is achieved for fixed-income trades. Our electronic trading platform offers both institutional investors and broker-dealers an automated audit trail for each stage in the trading cycle. This
enables compliance personnel to review information relating to trades more easily and with greater reliability. Trade information including time, price and spread-to-Treasury is stored securely and automatically on our electronic trading platform.
This data represents a valuable source of information for our clients’ compliance personnel. Importantly, we believe the automated audit trail, together with the competitive pricing that is a feature of our electronic trading platform, gives
fiduciaries the ability to demonstrate that they have achieved best execution on behalf of their clients.

Other Service Offerings

In addition to services directly related to the execution of trades, we offer our clients several other services, including:

Information Services.The information and analytical tools we provide to our clients help them make investment and trading decisions.
Our Corporate BondTickerTMprovides access to real-time and historical price, yield and MarketAxess estimated spread-to-Treasuries for publicly disseminated TRACE-eligible bonds. Corporate
BondTickerTMcombines publicly-available TRACE data with the prices for trades executed on our U.S. high-grade electronic trading platform, integrating the two data sources and providing real-time
TRACE data with associated analytical tools that are not otherwise available. Our electronic trading platform allows institutional investors to compile, sort and use information to discover investment opportunities that might have been difficult or
impossible to identify using a manual information-gathering process or other electronic services.

We offer a comprehensive set of reports
designed to review and monitor credit trading activity for institutional investor clients. These reports utilize extensive TRACE information and are accessible by means of a flexible interface to run and save reports in a variety of formats for both
compliance and management reporting. For example, the best execution report provides a view of the savings generated by trading on our electronic trading platform and offers a quantitative measure of the value of price discovery from multiple
dealers. The report allows clients to monitor performance against their own best execution policy. Our compliance product provides a printed history of each inquiry submitted through the MarketAxess trading platform.

Through Xtrakter, we provide a range of information solutions for capital market firms, utilizing broker-dealer reported quotes and leveraging
our trade matching and regulatory transaction reporting services for European securities. We provide market participants with access to end-of-day pricing, liquidity and volume data on over 50,000 unique fixed-income securities. We also
provide access to comprehensive terms and conditions data on approximately 300,000 fixed-income securities. In addition, we make available daily bond indices in fourteen currencies.

Post-Trade Services.Our Xtrakter TRAX service provides post-trade, pre-settlement trade matching and regulatory reporting for the
European OTC markets. It allows subscribers to match and report trades in a range of capital market instruments including bonds, derivatives, equities and swaps. TRAX has over 200 subscribers including broker-dealers, hedge funds and investment
banks. The TRAX platform processed over 1.1 billion transactions in 2013.

Straight-Through Processing.Straight-through
processing (“STP”) refers to the integration of systems and processes to automate the trade process from end-to-end — trade execution, confirmation and settlement — without the need for manual intervention. Our electronic trading
platform provides broker-dealers and institutional investors with the ability to automate portions of their transaction processing requirements, improving accuracy and efficiency. Through electronic messaging, institutional investors can submit
inquiries to, and receive electronic notices of execution from us, in industry standard protocols, complete with all relevant trade details. Institutional investors can download trade messages, allocate trades to the sub-accounts on whose behalf the
trades were made and send the allocations to broker-dealers for confirmation.

Technology Products and Services.We provide
technology solutions and professional consulting services to fixed-income industry participants.

Robust, Scalable Technology

We have developed proprietary technology that is highly secure, fault-tolerant and provides adequate capacity for our current
operations, as well as for substantial growth. Our highly scalable systems are designed to accommodate additional volume, products and clients with relatively little modification and low incremental costs.







Proven Innovator with an Experienced Management Team

Since our inception, we have been an innovator in the fixed-income securities markets. The members of our management team average more than 20
years of experience in the securities industry. We have consistently sought to benefit participants in the markets we serve by attempting to replicate the essential features of fixed-income trading, including the existing relationships between
broker-dealers and their institutional investor clients, while applying technology to eliminate weaknesses in traditional trading methods. In 2013, MarketAxess was named “Best Fixed Income Trading Provider” by Global Banking &
Finance review, and MarketAxess Open TradingTMwas awarded “Best Industry Infrastructure Initiative” by Banking Technology.

Some of the innovations we have introduced to electronic trading include:



•the first multi-dealer disclosed trading platform for U.S. high-grade corporate bonds;



•the first electronic Treasury benchmarking for U.S. high-grade corporate bond trades;



•Corporate BondTickerTM, our information services product, combining TRACE bond data with MarketAxess data and analytical tools;



•bid and offer list technology for corporate bond trading, enabling institutional investors to request executable prices for multiple securities simultaneously;



•the first disclosed client to multi-dealer trading platform for CDS indices; and



•public Market Lists for corporate bonds, giving institutional investors the ability to display their bid and offer lists anonymously to the entire MarketAxess trading community.

Independence

We
believe that our independent ownership and governance structure is a competitive advantage. As an independent company, we are free to make business and trading protocol decisions with the best interests of both our institutional investor and
broker-dealer clients in mind. We are able to attract industry leaders with valuable skills and insights to our independent Board of Directors. Finally, we believe the current regulatory environment creates advantages for independent
companies that are less prone to conflicts of interest.

Our Strategy

Our objective is to provide the leading global electronic trading platform for fixed-income securities, connecting broker-dealers and
institutional investors more easily and efficiently, while offering a broad array of information, trading and technology services to market participants across the trading cycle. The key elements of our strategy are:

Enhance the Liquidity of Securities Traded on Our Platform and Broaden Our Client Base in Our Existing Markets

We intend to further enhance the liquidity of securities traded on our leading electronic, multi-dealer to client fixed-income platform. Our
ability to innovate and efficiently add new functionality and product offerings to the MarketAxess platform will help us deepen our market share with our existing clients, as well as expand our client base, which we believe will, in turn, lead to
even further increases in the liquidity of the securities provided by our broker-dealer clients and available on our platform. We will seek to increase the amount of cross-regional activity by our institutional investor clients on our electronic
trading platform, subject to regulatory requirements.

Leverage our Existing Client Network and Technology to Increase
Counterparties and Improve Liquidity

Due to regulatory changes, our broker-dealers and institutional investors need new and
innovative electronic trading solutions to promote secondary market liquidity. We intend to continue to develop and deploy a wide range of electronic trading protocols to complement our traditional request-for-quote model. These protocols
increase potential trading counterparties by allowing broker-dealers and institutional investors to operate in an all-to-all trading environment.







Leverage our Existing Technology and Client Relationships to Expand into New Sectors of the
Fixed-Income Securities Market

We intend to leverage our technology, as well as our strong broker-dealer and institutional
investor relationships, to deploy our electronic trading platform into additional product segments within the fixed-income securities markets and deliver fixed-income securities-related technical services and products. Due in part to our highly
scalable systems, we believe we will be able to enter new markets efficiently. As an example, we developed technology and trading protocols to trade CDS in anticipation of implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act. In September 2013, the CFTC granted
temporary registration to MarketAxess SEF Corporation, our wholly-owned U.S. subsidiary, to operate a SEF for the trading of swaps.

Continue to Strengthen and Expand our Trade-Related Service Offerings

We plan to continue building our existing service offerings so that our electronic trading platform is more fully integrated into the workflow
of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients. We expect to continue to add functionality to enhance the ability of our clients to achieve a fully automated, end-to-end straight-through processing solution (automation from trade initiation
to settlement). We also plan to expand our trade matching and regulatory transaction reporting services provided by Xtrakter in Europe.

Expand our Data and Information Services Offerings

We regularly add new content and analytical capabilities to Corporate BondTickerTMin
order to improve the value of the information we provide to our clients. We plan to expand the data service offering provided by Xtrakter in Europe, with additional content related to trading volume and pricing. We intend to continue to widen the
user base of our data products and to continue adding new content and analytical capabilities. As the use of our electronic trading platform continues to grow, we believe that the amount and value of our proprietary trading data will also increase,
further enhancing the value of our information services offerings to our clients.

Pursue Select Acquisitions and Strategic
Alliances

We plan to continue to increase and supplement our internal growth by entering into strategic alliances, or acquiring
businesses or technologies, that will enable us to enter new markets, provide new products or services, or otherwise enhance the value of our platform to our clients.

The acquisition of Xtrakter in February 2013 provides us with an expanded set of technology solutions ahead of incoming pre-and post-trade
transparency mandates from the MiFID II in Europe. In April 2013, we entered into a strategic alliance with BlackRock, Inc. to create a unified, open trading solution designed to help reduce liquidity fragmentation and improve pricing across credit
markets.

MarketAxess Electronic Trading Platform

Key Trading Functionalities

The key trading functionalities are detailed below.

Single Inquiry Trading Functionality

We currently offer institutional investors the ability to request bids or offers in a single inquiry from an unlimited number of our
broker-dealer clients for U.S. high-grade corporate bonds, from up to six of our broker-dealer clients for European high-grade corporate bonds and from up to 12 of our broker-dealer clients in emerging markets bonds. Institutional investors can
obtain bids or offers on any security posted in inventory or included in the database available on our platform.







ASAP and Holding Bin Trading Functionalities

We provide both ASAP (“as soon as possible”) and Holding Bin trading protocols. In the Holding Bin trading protocol, institutional
investor clients set the time when they would like all of the broker-dealers’ prices or spreads returned to them, in order to have the ability to see all executable prices available at the same time. In the ASAP trading protocol, institutional
investor clients see each broker-dealer’s price or spread as soon as it is entered by the broker-dealer.

List Trading
Functionality

We currently offer institutional investors the ability to request bids or offers on a list of up to 40 bonds depending
on the market. This facilitates efficient trading for institutional investors such as investment advisors, mutual funds and hedge funds. Institutional investors are able to have multiple lists executable throughout the trading day, enabling them to
manage their daily cash flows, portfolio duration, and credit and sector exposure.

Market Lists

We offer institutional investors and broker-dealers the ability to display live requests for bids and offers anonymously to the entire
MarketAxess trading community through our Market List functionality, thereby creating broader visibility of their inquiry among market participants and increasing the likelihood that the request results in a trade.

Inventory and Axes

The
price discovery process includes the ability to view indications of interest from both broker-dealer clients and institutional investor clients’ inventory on our platform. Through the aggregated indication of interest inventory, clients can
search for bonds of interest and engage in electronic transactions.

Click-to-Trade

We have enhanced our trading system to provide pre-trade price discovery and fast-track execution for European bonds. Click-to-trade
functionality streams attributable pricing in European credit and rates instruments, submitted by our pool of European dealers. Investor clients are able to initiate an inquiry with a single click on the stacks of distinctly displayed dealer bids
and offers. Click-to-trade is offered alongside our existing RFQ product. Although currently limited to European credit and rate instruments, click-to-trade functionality may be applied to trading of other market sectors.

Mid-X

We have the
ability to offer a session-based matching protocol for bonds that allows counterparties to trade at mid-market prices.

SEF Trading for
CDS Indices

We offer a range of functionality for electronic trading of CDS in compliance with the CFTC’s requirements, as
mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act. This includes an order book, which enables market participants to trade anonymously with all other market participants, and a RFQ system that will operate in conjunction with the order book.

Central Limit Order Book

We have offered central limit order book (“CLOB”) style trading for bonds and CDS in the past. In 2013, we launched a CLOB for CDS
single-names. While the characteristics of the corporate bond market have not been conducive to continuous trading (as in equity markets), we believe there is a sub-set of actively traded bonds that could benefit from CLOB trading.

Dealer-to-Dealer Trading

Through our DealerAxess®platform, our broker-dealer clients can access liquidity
provided by approximately 100 global, regional and specialist dealers. In addition to fully-disclosed RFQ trading, we offer an anonymous RFQ trading protocol for inter-dealer trading, helping dealers more efficiently manage their bond inventory. We
offer trading across a wide range of fixed income products including high-grade, high-yield, emerging markets and U.S. agency bonds. Dealers active on our client-to-dealer platform benefit from existing trade routing rules and books,
straight-through processing connectivity and trading APIs. Bond trades on DealerAxess®executed pursuant to the anonymous protocol are conducted with MarketAxess as riskless principal and
cleared and settled by an independent clearing broker.







Key Trading Products

U.S. High-Grade Corporate Bonds

Our U.S. high-grade corporate bond business consists of U.S. dollar-denominated investment-grade debt issued by corporations for distribution
in the U.S. Both domestic and foreign institutional investors have access to U.S. high-grade corporate bond trading on our electronic trading platform. Our 2013 trading volume in the U.S. high-grade corporate bond market was $440.1 billion.

In the U.S. high-grade corporate bond market, 67 broker-dealers utilize our platform, including all of the top 20 broker-dealers as ranked by
2013 U.S. corporate bond new-issue underwriting volume. Our broker-dealer clients accounted for approximately 97% of the underwriting of newly-issued U.S. corporate bonds in 2013. More than 600 active institutional investor firms use our platform to
trade U.S. high-grade corporate bonds.

We offer our institutional investor clients access to a broad inventory of U.S. high-grade
corporate bonds, which is provided and updated daily by our broker-dealer clients. Our electronic trading platform allows institutional investors to view bids and offers from one or more of our broker-dealer clients while permitting each party to
know the identity of its counter-party throughout the trading process. Our disclosed inquiry trading functionality combines the strength of existing offline client/dealer relationships with the efficiency and transparency of an electronic trading
platform. This enables institutional investors to instantly direct trade inquiries and negotiations to their traditional broker-dealer or to any of the substantial majority of the world’s leading broker-dealers who provide liquidity in these
securities. Through our Market List functionality, we also offer institutional investors the ability to display their live requests for bid and offer lists anonymously to the entire MarketAxess trading community as a means of creating broader
visibility of their inquiry among market participants and increasing the likelihood that the request results in a trade.

Institutional
investors have access to the commingled inventory of our broker-dealer clients, representing indicative bids and offers. Each line item of inventory represents an indicative bid and/or offer on a particular bond issue by a particular broker-dealer
client. Institutional investor clients are not restricted to trading only the bonds posted as inventory, although many of the trades conducted on our platform are made from the posted inventory. To transact in a specific bond that does not appear in
inventory, institutional investors can easily search our database and submit an online inquiry to their chosen broker-dealers, who can respond with live, executable prices. While, on average, institutional investor clients receive several bids or
offers from broker-dealers in response to trade inquiries, some inquiries may not receive any bids or offers.

Emerging Markets Bonds

Seventy-one of our U.S. broker-dealer clients and more than 500 active institutional investor firms use our platform to trade emerging
markets bonds. These institutional investor clients are predominantly located in the U.S. and Europe. The emerging markets countries whose bonds were most frequently traded on our platform in 2013 were Brazil, Mexico, Russia, Venezuela and Turkey.
We also allow our institutional investor clients to transact Euroclear-eligible local currency denominated bonds issued by sovereign entities or corporations in countries that include Argentina, Brazil and Mexico.

Crossover and High-Yield Bonds

Sixty-five of our U.S. broker-dealer clients and more than 500 active institutional investor firms use our platform to trade crossover and
high-yield bonds. Trading in crossover and high-yield bonds uses many of the same features available in our U.S. high-grade corporate bond offering.

Eurobonds

MarketAxess
Europe Limited, our wholly-owned U.K. subsidiary, offers European secondary trading functionality in U.S. dollar- and Euro-denominated European corporate bonds to our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients. We also offer our clients the
ability to trade in other European high-grade corporate bonds, including bonds issued in Pounds Sterling, floating rate notes, European government bonds and bonds denominated in non-core currencies. We offered the first platform in Europe with a
multi-dealer disclosed counterparty trading capability for corporate bonds. In 2009, MarketAxess Europe Limited received FCA regulatory approval to trade on a riskless principal basis. In 2010, we launched a click-to-trade protocol for the European
market.







In the Eurobond credit market, defined as including European high-grade, high-yield and
government bonds, 27 broker-dealers utilize our platform, including 17 of the top 20 broker-dealers as ranked by 2013 European corporate new-issue underwriting volume. More than 250 active institutional investor firms use our platform to trade
European bonds. In a single inquiry, institutional investors can request bids or offers from up to six of the broker-dealers who participate on the European platform. While many of the trades conducted on our platform are made from the posted
inventory, institutional investor clients are not restricted to trading only the bonds posted as inventory. To transact in a specific bond that does not appear in inventory, institutional investors can easily search our database and submit an online
inquiry to their chosen broker-dealers, who can respond with live, executable prices. While, on average, institutional investor clients receive several bids or offers from broker-dealers in response to trade inquiries, some inquiries may not receive
any bids or offers.

U.S. Agency Bonds

Forty-three of our U.S. broker-dealer clients and approximately 300 active institutional investor firms use our platform to trade U.S. agency
bonds. Trading in U.S. agency bonds uses many of the same features available in our U.S. high-grade corporate bond offering.

Credit
Default Swaps

We offer trading on our platform for CDS indices and single-names in both the U.S. and Europe through our traditional
RFQ protocol. We are streaming executable dealer markets in CDS and European indices. Eight of our broker-dealer clients are providing streaming, executable CDS index prices. We also have a CLOB for CDS single-names. We have incorporated the
request-for-market protocol and the streaming markets/click-to-trade protocol into an updated single-screen user interface, giving clients full flexibility in their means of execution. With these features, we believe that we have developed much of
the core technology needed to meet the current and anticipated regulatory requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act.

Information and
Post-Trade Services

Information Services

TM

TM

The Wall Street Journal

.

TM

TM

TM

TM

We provide Corporate BondTickerTMas an ancillary service to our trading clients and also to other industry participants. We derive revenues from our Corporate BondTickerTMservice by charging for seat licenses per user at our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients, through distribution agreements with other information service providers and through bulk data sales to third parties. Seat license fees are
waived for clients that transact a sufficient volume of trades through MarketAxess.







We also offer a comprehensive set of reports designed to review and monitor credit trading
activity for institutional investor clients. These reports utilize extensive TRACE information and have a flexible interface to run and save in a variety of formats for both compliance and management reporting. For example, the best execution report
provides a view of the savings generated by trading on our electronic trading platform and offers a quantitative measure of the value of price discovery from multiple dealers. The report allows clients to monitor performance against their own best
execution policy. Our compliance product provides a printed history of each inquiry submitted through the MarketAxess trading platform.

Through Xtrakter, we provide a range of information solutions for capital market firms, utilizing broker-dealer reported quotes and leveraging
our trade matching and regulatory transaction reporting services in European securities. We provide market participants with access to end-of-day pricing, liquidity and volume data on over 50,000 unique fixed-income securities. We also
provide access to comprehensive terms and conditions data on approximately 300,000 fixed-income securities. In addition, we make available daily bond indices in fourteen currencies.

Post-Trade Services

Our
Xtrakter TRAX service provides post-trade, pre-settlement trade matching and regulatory transaction reporting services for the European OTC markets. It allows subscribers to match and report trades in a range of capital market instruments including
bonds, derivatives, equities and swaps. TRAX has over 200 subscribers including broker-dealers, hedge funds and investment banks. The TRAX platform processed over 1.1 billion transactions in 2013.

Straight-Through Processing

Straight-through processing refers to the integration of systems and processes to automate the trade process from end-to-end — trade
execution, confirmation and settlement — without the need for manual intervention. There are two elements of straight-through processing: internal straight-through processing and external straight-through processing. Internal straight-through
processing relates to the trade and settlement processes that are internal to an industry participant. For example, in the case of an institutional investor, this includes authorization of orders, placement of orders with broker-dealers, receipt of
execution details and allocation of trades. External straight-through processing refers to connecting seamlessly to all external counterparts in the trading and settlement process.

Automation by way of straight-through processing improves efficiency throughout the trade cycle. We provide broker-dealers and institutional
investors with a range of tools that facilitate straight-through processing, including order upload, easy-to-use online allocation tools and pre- and post-trade messaging features that enable institutional investors to communicate electronically
between front- and back-office systems, thereby integrating the order, portfolio management and accounting systems of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients in real time. Our straight-through processing tools can be customized to meet
specific needs of clients. We continue to build industry partnerships to assist our clients in creating connectivity throughout the trade cycle. Through these partnerships, we are increasingly providing solutions that can quickly be deployed within
our clients’ trading operations.

Usage of our straight-through processing tools increased significantly during the last several
years. The number of investor client STP connections increased to 380 as of December 31, 2013 from 210 as of December 31, 2009.

Dealer API

We
offer Application Programming Interface (“API”) services to our broker-dealer clients for pre-trade, trade negotiation and post-trade services. This allows for straight-through processing, which improves efficiency and
reduces errors in processing.

Sales and Marketing

We promote our products and services using a variety of direct and indirect sales and marketing strategies. Our sales force is responsible for
client acquisition activity and for increasing use of our trading platform and post-trade services by our existing clients. Their goal is to train and support existing and new clients on how to use the system and to educate them as to the benefits
of utilizing an electronic fixed-income trading platform. We employ various strategies, including advertising, direct marketing, promotional mailings, and participation in industry conferences and media engagement, to increase awareness of our brand
and our electronic trading platform. For example, we have worked with The Wall Street Journal to establish Corporate BondTickerTMas the source of information for its daily corporate bond and
high-yield tables. A similar process also exists at Xtrakter, employing both direct and indirect sales methods.







Competition

The industry that we participate in is highly competitive and we expect competition to intensify in the future. We face five main areas of
competition:



•Telephone— We compete with bond trading business conducted over the telephone between broker-dealers and their institutional investor clients. Institutional investors have historically purchased
fixed-income securities by telephoning bond sales professionals at one or more broker-dealers and inquiring about the price and availability of individual bonds. This remains the manner in which the majority of corporate bonds are still traded
between institutional investors and broker-dealers.



•E-mail— We compete with bond trading business conducted via e-mail between broker-dealers and their institutional investor clients. E-mail provides an efficient means of initiating product and price
discovery with a large universe of potential trading partners.



•Other electronic trading platforms— There are numerous other electronic trading platforms currently in existence. Among others, Thomson TradeWeb and Bloomberg operate- multi-dealer to institutional investor
trading platforms for both fixed income securities and derivatives. The New York Stock Exchange also offers exchange-style trading for corporate bonds. In addition, some broker-dealers and institutional investors operate proprietary electronic
trading systems that enable institutional investors to trade directly with a broker-dealer, and/or with other institutional investors over an electronic medium. Additionally, as we expand our business into new products, we will likely come into more
direct competition with other electronic trading platforms or firms offering traditional services.



•Market data and information vendors— Several large market data and information providers currently have a data and analytics relationship with virtually every institutional firm. Some of these entities,
including Bloomberg, currently offer varying forms of electronic trading of fixed-income securities, mostly on a single-dealer basis. Some of these entities have announced their intention to expand their electronic trading platforms or to develop
new platforms. These entities are currently direct competitors to our information services business and already are or may in the future become direct competitors to our electronic trading platform.



•Other accredited regulatory mechanisms (ARMs)— We compete with other accredited regulatory mechanisms in Europe that have the FCA’s ARM designation and provide post-trade matching and regulatory
transaction reporting services, including the London Stock Exchange’s UnaVista.

Competitors, including companies in
which some of our broker-dealer clients have invested, have developed electronic trading platforms or have announced their intention to explore the development of electronic trading platforms that compete or will compete with us. Furthermore, our
broker-dealer clients have made, and may in the future continue to make investments in or enter into agreements with other businesses that directly or indirectly compete with us.

In general, we compete on the basis of a number of key factors, including:



•broad network of broker-dealer and institutional investor clients using our electronic trading platform;



•liquidity provided by the participating broker-dealers;



•magnitude and frequency of price improvement;



•enhancing the quality and speed of execution;



•compliance benefits;



•total transaction costs;



•technology capabilities, including the reliability and ease of use of our electronic trading platform; and



•range of products and services offered.







We believe that our ability to grow volumes and revenues will largely depend on our performance
with respect to these factors.

Our competitive position is also enhanced by the familiarity and integration of our broker-dealer and
institutional investor clients with our electronic trading platform and other systems. We have focused on the unique aspects of the credit markets we serve in the development of our platform, working closely with our clients to provide a system that
is suited to their needs.

Our broker-dealer clients have invested in building API’s with us for inventory contributions, electronic
trading, government bond benchmark pricing and post-trade messaging. We believe that we have successfully built deep roots with our broker-dealer clients, increasing our level of service to them while at the same time increasing their commitment to
our services.

Furthermore, 380 of our institutional investor firms have built interfaces to enable them to communicate electronically
between our platform and their order, portfolio management and accounting systems. We believe that this increases the reliance of these institutional investor firms on our services and creates significant competitive barriers to entry.

Technology

The design and quality of our
technology products are critical to our growth and our ability to execute our business strategy. Our electronic trading platform has been designed with secure, scalable client-server architecture that makes broad use of distributed computing to
achieve speed, reliability and fault tolerance. The platform is built on industry-standard technologies and has been designed to handle many multiples of our current trading volume.

All critical server-side components, primarily our networks, application servers and databases, have backup equipment running in the event
that the main equipment fails. This offers fully redundant system capacity to maximize uptime and minimize the potential for loss of transaction data in the event of an internal failure. We also seek to minimize the impact of external failures by
automatically recovering connections in the event of a communications failure. The majority of our broker-dealer clients have redundant dedicated high-speed communication paths to our network in order to provide fast data transfer. Our security
measures include industry-standard communications encryption.

We have designed our application with an easy-to-use, Windows-based
interface. Our clients are able to access our electronic trading platform through a secure, single sign-on. Clients are also able to execute transactions over our platform directly from their order management systems. We provide users an automatic
software update feature that does not require manual intervention.

Intellectual Property

We rely upon a combination of copyright, patent, trade secret and trademark laws, written agreements and common law to protect our proprietary
technology, processes and other intellectual property. Our software code, elements of our electronic trading platform, website and other proprietary materials are protected by copyright laws. We have been issued 12 patents covering our most
significant trading protocols and other aspects of our trading system technology and additional patents are pending.

The written
agreements upon which we rely to protect our proprietary technology, processes and intellectual property include agreements designed to protect our trade secrets. Examples of these written agreements include third party nondisclosure agreements,
employee nondisclosure and inventions assignment agreements, and agreements with customers, contractors and strategic partners. Other written agreements upon which we rely to protect our proprietary technology, processes and intellectual property
take many forms and contain provisions related to patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret rights.

We have obtained U.S. federal
registration of the MarketAxess®name and logo, and the same mark and logo have been registered in several foreign jurisdictions. In addition, we have obtained U.S. federal registration for
the marks AutoSpotting®, FrontPage®, Actives®, DealerAxess®and associated designs and have a number of other registered trademarks and service marks. Corporate BondTickerTMand MarketAxess Open TradingTMare trademarks we use, but they have not been registered.

In addition to our efforts
to register our intellectual property, we believe that factors such as the technological and creative skills of our personnel, new product and service developments, frequent enhancements and reliability with respect to our services are essential to
establishing and maintaining a technology and market leadership position.







Government Regulation

The securities industry and financial markets in the U.S. and elsewhere are subject to extensive regulation. As a matter of public policy,
regulatory bodies in the U.S. and the rest of the world are charged with safeguarding the integrity of the securities and other financial markets and with protecting the interests of investors participating in those markets. Our active broker-dealer
subsidiaries fall within the scope of their regulations.

Regulation of the U.S. Securities Industry and Broker-Dealers

In the U.S., the SEC is the governmental agency responsible for the administration of the federal securities laws. One of our U.S.
subsidiaries, MarketAxess Corporation, is registered with the SEC as a broker-dealer. It is also a member of FINRA, a self-regulatory organization to which most broker-dealers belong. In addition, MarketAxess Corporation is a member of the
Securities Investor Protection Corporation, which provides certain protection for clients’ accounts in the event of a liquidation of a broker-dealer to the extent any such accounts are held by the broker-dealer.

Additionally, MarketAxess Corporation is registered with certain states and the District of Columbia as a broker-dealer. The individual states
and the District of Columbia are responsible for the administration of their respective “blue sky” laws, rules and regulations.

In July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law. Among the most significant aspects of the derivatives section of the Dodd-Frank Act
are mandatory clearing of certain derivatives transactions (“swaps”) through regulated central clearing organizations and mandatory trading of those swaps through either regulated exchanges or SEFs, in each case subject to certain key
exceptions. In September 2013, the CFTC granted temporary registration to MarketAxess SEF Corporation, our wholly-owned U.S. subsidiary, to operate a SEF for the trading of swaps subject to the CFTC’s jurisdiction. The CFTC’s
rules relating to the trading of swaps on SEFs were implemented on October 2, 2013. Effective February 26, 2014, counterparties must execute swaps that are subject to the made available for trade determinations on a SEF or designated
contract market. The SEC has not yet finalized its rules for security-based SEFs, nor has it published a timetable for the finalization and implementation of such rules. No assurance can be given regarding when, whether or in what form the
remaining rules regarding the new regulatory regime for the swaps marketplace will be finalized or implemented.

The Volcker Rule
promulgated under the Dodd-Frank Act bans proprietary trading by banks and their affiliates. The Volcker Rule could adversely affect our bank-affiliated broker-dealer clients’ ability to make markets in a variety of fixed-income securities,
thereby negatively impacting the level of liquidity and pricing available on our trading platform. We cannot predict the extent to which any future regulatory changes may adversely affect our business and operations.

Regulation of the Non-U.S. Securities Industries and Investment Service Providers

The securities industry and financial markets in the U.K., the European Union and elsewhere are subject to extensive regulation. MarketAxess
Europe Limited and Xtrakter Limited may fall within the scope of those regulations depending on the extent to which they are characterized as providing a regulated investment service.

Our principal regulator in the U.K. is the FCA. Our subsidiary, MarketAxess Europe Limited, is registered as a Multilateral Trading Facility
(“MTF”) dealer with the FCA. Xtrakter Limited is registered as an Approved Reporting Mechanism with the FCA. Xtrakter also has “recognized status” in France, the Netherlands and Belgium in connection with the submission of
transaction reports to regulators.

The securities industry in the member states of the European Union is regulated by agencies in each
member state. European Union measures provide for the mutual recognition of regulatory agencies and of prudential supervision making possible the grant of a single authorization for providers of investment services, which, in general, is valid
throughout the European Union. As an FCA approved MTF, MarketAxess Europe Limited receives the benefit of this authorization.

Similar to
the U.S., regulatory bodies in Europe and elsewhere are developing new rules for derivatives trading. For example, the European Parliament and the EU Council of Ministers endorsed an agreement in 2012 that will, among other things, require central
clearing of standardized OTC derivatives and the reporting of all derivatives (OTC or otherwise) to trade repositories. However, it is not yet clear whether there will be any requirement in the EU to trade standardized derivative contracts on
regulated exchanges or trading platforms.







Our Canadian subsidiary, MarketAxess Canada Company, is registered as an Alternative Trading
System dealer under the Securities Act of Ontario and is a member of the Investment Industry Regulatory Organization of Canada.

Employees

As of December 31, 2013, we had 293 employees, 185 of whom were based in the U.S. and 108 of whom were based outside of the U.S.,
principally in the U.K. None of our employees is represented by a labor union. We consider our relationships with our employees to be good and have not experienced any interruptions of operations due to labor disagreements.

Company Information

MarketAxess was
incorporated in Delaware in April 2000. Our Internet website address is www.marketaxess.com. Through our Internet website, we will make available, free of charge, the following reports as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing
them with, or furnishing them to, the SEC: our annual report on Form 10-K; our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q; our current reports on Form 8-K; and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Our Proxy Statements for our Annual Meetings are also available through our Internet website. Our Internet website and the information contained therein or connected thereto are not intended to be incorporated into
this Annual Report on Form 10-K. You may also obtain copies of our reports without charge by writing to:

MarketAxess Holdings Inc.

299 Park Avenue

New York, NY

Attn: Investor Relations

Our Board of Directors has standing Audit, Compensation, Nominating and Corporate Governance, Mergers and Acquisitions and Investment
Committees. Each of these committees has a written charter approved by our Board of Directors. Our Board of Directors has also adopted a set of Corporate Governance Guidelines. Copies of each committee charter, along with the Corporate Governance
Guidelines, are also posted on our website.

You may read and copy any document we file with the SEC at the SEC’s public reference
room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for information on the public reference room. The SEC maintains an Internet website that contains annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and
information statements and other information that issuers (including the Company) file electronically with the SEC. The SEC’s internet website is www.sec.gov.

We have obtained federal registration of the MarketAxess®name and logo, as well as
for the marks Auto-Spotting®, BondLink®, Actives®, FrontPage®and DealerAxess®. We also have a number of other registered trademarks, service mark applications and trademark applications. Other
trademarks and service marks appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are the property of their respective holders.







