ITEM 1A – RISK FACTORS

You should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below and all other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the
documents incorporated by reference, before making an investment decision regarding our common stock. If any of the events contemplated by the following risks actually occurs, then our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be
materially adversely affected. As a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. The risks and uncertainties below are not the only risks facing our company.



•The effects of the global economic downturn could have a material adverse effect on our business

The global economy is still showing signs of stress, and could stall or reverse the course of any recovery. If this were to occur it could adversely
affect consumer confidence and spending patterns which could result in decreased demand for the products we sell, a delay in purchases, increased price competition, or slower adoption of energy efficient water heaters or boilers which could
negatively impact our profitability and/or cash flow. In addition, a deterioration in current economic conditions, including credit market conditions, could negatively impact our vendors and customers, which could result in an increase in bad debt
expense, customer and vendor bankruptcies, interruption or delay in supply of materials, or increased material prices, which could negatively impact our ability to distribute, market and sell our products and our financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows.



•A portion of our business could be affected by a slowing Chinese economy

Our sales growth of A. O. Smith branded products in China has averaged approximately 25 percent per year over the past five years and we anticipate growth
of approximately 15 percent in 2013. In 2013 we will complete construction on a facility which will expand our manufacturing capacity by 50 percent. If the Chinese economy were to experience a significant slowdown or urbanization was to stall, it
could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.



•Failure to achieve one or more of our 2015 aspirations could negatively impact investors’ interest in our common stock

We introduced our 2015 financial aspirations in late 2012. We identified specific growth expectations for our A. O.
Smith branded products in China, our U.S. residential and commercial water heaters, our Lochinvar branded products, our water treatment products and our products sold in India. We identified earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) margin
aspirations for our North America and Rest of World segments. We included assumptions for growth in revenues and earnings from acquisitions in our 2015 aspirations. Failure to profitably grow as expected or identify acquisition targets that meet our
disciplined investment criteria could negatively impact our ability to achieve these aspirations. Failure to achieve one or more of these aforementioned growth factors could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.



•A portion of our business could be adversely affected by a decline in new commercial construction

The recovery in commercial construction activity in North America is fragile and commercial construction could decline again after showing small
improvements in 2012. Though we believe that the majority of the commercial business we serve is for replacement of existing products, changes in the commercial construction market could affect us.



•A material loss, cancellation, reduction, or delay in purchases by one or more of our largest customers could harm our business

Net sales to our five largest customers represented approximately 36 percent of our 2012 net sales. We expect that
customer concentration will continue for the foreseeable future. Our dependence on sales from a relatively small number of customers makes our relationship with each of these customers important to our business. We cannot assure that we will be able
to retain our largest customers. Some of our customers may in the future shift their purchases of products to our competitors. The loss of one or more of our largest customers, any material reduction or delay in sales to these customers, our
inability to successfully develop relationships with additional customers, or our inability to execute on pricing actions could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.






•Our Lochinvar branded sales’ growth could stall resulting in lower than expected sales and earnings from the acquisition

The compound annual growth rate of Lochinvar’s revenues has been nine percent over the past five years, largely
due to the transition in the boiler industry from lower efficiency, non-condensing boilers to higher efficiency, condensing boilers and Lochinvar is a brand leader in residential and commercial condensing boilers. In 2003, approximately five percent
of the boilers sold in the U.S. were condensing boilers and by 2011, the percentage had grown to approximately 30 percent. We expect the transition to continue, which would result in approximately ten percent growth in Lochinvar branded sales in
2013 and for the foreseeable future after 2013. If the transition to higher efficiency, condensing boilers stalls as a result of lower energy costs, another recession occurs or our competitors’ technologies surpass our technology, our growth
rate could be lower than expected.



•Because we participate in markets that are highly competitive, our revenues could decline as we respond to competition

We sell all of our products in highly competitive markets. We compete in each of our targeted markets based on product
design, reliability, quality of products and services, advanced technologies, product performance, maintenance costs and price. We compete against manufacturers located, primarily, in North America and China. Some of our competitors may have greater
financial, marketing, manufacturing, research and development and distribution resources than we have. We cannot assure that our products and services will continue to compete successfully with those of our competitors or that we will be able to
retain our customer base or improve or maintain our profit margins on sales to our customers, all of which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.



•Our business may be adversely impacted by product defects

Product defects can occur through our own product development, design and manufacturing processes or through our reliance on third parties for component design and manufacturing activities. We may incur
various expenses related to product defects, including product warranty costs, product recall and retrofit costs and product liability costs. While we maintain a reserve for our product warranty costs based on certain estimates and our knowledge of
current events and actions, our actual warranty costs may exceed our reserve, resulting in current period expenses and a need to increase our accruals for warranty charges. In addition, the reputation of our brand may be diminished by product
defects and recalls. Further, our inability to cure a product defect could result in the failure of a product line or the temporary or permanent withdrawal from a product or market. Any of these events may have a material adverse impact on our
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.



•A substantial contribution to our financial results has come through acquisitions and we may not be able to identify or complete future
acquisitions, which could adversely affect our future growth

Acquisitions we have made have had a significant impact on
our results of operations. While we will continue to evaluate potential acquisitions and we intend to use a significant portion of our cash and marketable securities for future acquisitions, we may not be able to identify and successfully negotiate
suitable acquisitions, obtain financing for future acquisitions on satisfactory terms, utilize cash flows from operations, obtain regulatory approval for certain acquisitions, or otherwise complete acquisitions in the future. If we complete any
future acquisitions, then we may not be able to successfully integrate the acquired businesses or operate them profitably or accomplish our strategic objectives for those acquisitions. If we complete any future acquisitions in new geographies, our
unfamiliarity with local regulations and market customs may impact our ability to operate them profitably or achieve our strategic objectives for those acquisitions. Our level of indebtedness may increase in the future if we finance acquisitions
with debt, which would cause us to incur additional interest expense and could increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions and limit our ability to service our debt or obtain additional financing. We cannot assure
you that future acquisitions will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.



•If we are unable to develop product innovations and improve our technology and expertise, we could lose customers or market share

Our success may depend on our ability to adapt to technological changes in the water heating, boiler and water treatment
industry. If we are unable to timely develop and introduce new products, or enhance existing products, in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements or demands, our competitiveness could be materially and adversely affected.






•Our success is dependent on our ability to develop and successfully introduce new products and to acquire and retain intellectual property
rights.

Our ability to develop and successfully market new products and to develop, acquire, and retain necessary
intellectual property rights is essential to our continued success, but cannot reasonably be assured.



•A failure in our information technology infrastructure or applications could negatively affect our business.

We depend on information technology to record and process customers’ orders, manufacture and ship products in a
timely manner, and maintain the financial accuracy of our business records. We are in the process of implementing a global Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system that will redesign and deploy new processes and a common information system
across our plants over a period of several years. There can be no certainty that this system will deliver the expected benefits. The failure to achieve our goals may impact our ability to (1) process transactions accurately and
efficiently and (2) remain in step with the changing needs of the trade, which could result in the loss of customers. In addition, the failure to either deliver the application on time, or anticipate the necessary readiness and training
needs, could lead to business disruption and loss of customers and revenue. Our information systems could also be penetrated by outside parties intent on extracting information, corrupting information, or disrupting business processes. Such
unauthorized access could disrupt our business and could result in the loss of assets.



•Retention of key personnel is important to our business

Attracting and retaining talented employees is important to the continued success of our business. Failure to retain key personnel, particularly on the leadership team, would have a material effect on our
business and our ability to execute our business strategies in a timely and effective manner.



•We increasingly manufacture and sell our products outside the U.S., which may present additional risks to our business

Approximately 35 percent of our 2012 net sales were attributable to products manufactured and sold outside of the U.S.,
primarily in China and Canada and to a lesser extent in India. Approximately 6,000 of our 10,900 total employees as of December 31, 2012 were located in China. At December 31, 2012, nearly $300 million of our cash and marketable securities
balances were located in China. In 2010, we opened a manufacturing plant in India. International operations generally are subject to various risks, including political, religious, and economic instability, local labor market conditions, the
imposition of foreign tariffs and other trade restrictions, the impact of foreign government regulations, the effects of income and withholding taxes, governmental expropriation, imposition or increase in withholding and other taxes on remittances
and other payments by foreign subsidiaries, labor relations problems, the imposition of environmental or employment laws, or other restrictions by foreign governments and differences in business practices. We may incur increased costs and experience
delays or disruptions in product deliveries and payments in connection with international manufacturing and sales that could cause loss of revenue. Unfavorable changes in the political, regulatory, and business climate could have a material adverse
effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows or our ability to repatriate funds to the U.S.



•Our international operations are subject to risks related to foreign currencies

We have significant operations outside of the U.S., primarily in China and Canada and to a lesser extent India, and therefore, hold assets, incur
liabilities, earn revenues and pay expenses in a variety of currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The financial statements of our foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars. As a result, we are subject to risks associated with operating
in foreign countries, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates and interest rates, or hyperinflation in some foreign countries. Furthermore, we typically price our products in our foreign operations in local currencies. As a result, an
increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the local currencies of our profitable foreign subsidiaries could have a negative effect on our profitability. In addition to currency translation risks, we incur a currency transaction risk
whenever one of our operating subsidiaries enters into either a purchase or sale transaction using a currency different from the operating subsidiaries’ functional currency. These risks in North America and Asia may hurt our ability to generate
revenue and profits in those regions in the future or negatively impact revenues and earnings translated from foreign currencies into U.S. dollars.






•We are subject to regulation of our international operations that could adversely affect our business and results of operations

Due to our global operations, we are subject to many laws governing international relations, including those that
prohibit improper payments to government officials and restrict where we can do business, what information or products we can supply to certain countries and what information we can provide to a non-U.S. government, including but not limited to the
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.S. Export Administration Act. Violations of these laws, which are complex, may result in criminal penalties or sanctions that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows.



•Our operations could be adversely impacted by material price volatility and supplier concentration

The market prices for certain raw materials we purchase, primarily steel, have been very volatile in the recent past. Significant increases in the cost of
any of the key materials we purchase could increase our cost of doing business and ultimately could lead to lower operating earnings if we are not able to recover these cost increases through price increases to our customers. Historically, there has
been a lag in our ability to recover increased material costs from customers, and that lag could negatively impact our profitability. In addition, in some cases we are dependent on a limited number of suppliers for some of the raw materials and
components we require in the manufacture of our products. A significant disruption or termination of the supply from one of these suppliers could delay sales or increase costs which could result in a material adverse effect on our financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows.



•Our underfunded pension plans require future pension contributions which could limit our flexibility in managing our company



•We have significant goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets and an impairment of our goodwill could cause a decline in our net worth

Our total assets include significant goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets. Our goodwill results from our
acquisitions, representing the excess of the purchase prices we paid over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets we acquired. We assess whether there has been impairment in the value of our goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible
assets during the fourth quarter of each calendar year or sooner if triggering events warrant. If future operating performance at our businesses do not meet expectations, we may be required to reflect a non-cash charge to operating results for
goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment. The recognition of an impairment of a significant portion of goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets would negatively affect our results of operations and total capitalization, the
effect of which could be material. A significant reduction in our stockholders’ equity due to an impairment of goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets may affect our ability to maintain the debt-to-capital ratio required under our
existing debt arrangements. We have identified the valuation of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets as a critical accounting policy. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
– Critical Accounting Policies—Goodwill and Indefinite-lived Intangible Assets” included in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.






•Our results of operations may be negatively impacted by product liability lawsuits and claims

Our water heating, boiler and water treatment products expose us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture, sale
and use of our products. While we currently maintain what we believe to be suitable product liability insurance, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain this insurance on acceptable terms, that this insurance will provide adequate
protection against potential liabilities or that our insurance providers will be able to ultimately pay all insured losses. In addition, we self-insure a portion of product liability claims. A series of successful claims against us could materially
and adversely affect our reputation and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.



•Changes in regulations or standards could adversely affect our business

Our products are subject to a wide variety of statutory, regulatory and industry standards and requirements. These include energy efficiency,
environmental emissions, labeling and safety-related requirements. While we believe our products are currently efficient, safe and environment-friendly, a significant change to these regulatory requirements, whether federal, foreign, state or
local, or otherwise to industry standards could substantially increase manufacturing costs, impact the size and timing of demand for our products, or put us at a competitive disadvantage, any of which could harm our business and have a material
adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.



•New regulations related to conflict minerals could adversely impact our business



•Certain members of the founding family of our company and trusts for their benefit have the ability to influence all matters requiring
stockholder approval


We have two classes of common equity: our Common Stock and our Class A Common Stock. The holders of Common Stock currently are entitled, as a class, to elect only one-third of our board of directors. The holders of Class A Common Stock are entitled, as a class, to elect the remaining directors. Certain members of the founding family of our company and trusts for their benefit (Smith Family) have entered into a voting trust agreement with respect to shares of our Class A Common Stock and shares of our Common Stock they own. As of December 31, 2012 these members of the Smith Family own approximately 60.0 percent of the total voting power of our outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock and Common Stock, taken together as a single class, and approximately 94.9 percent of the voting power of the outstanding shares of our Class A Common Stock, as a separate class. Due to the differences in the voting rights between shares of our Common Stock and shares of our Class A Common Stock, the Smith Family is in a position to control to a large extent the outcome of matters requiring a stockholder vote, including the adoption of amendments to our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or approval of transactions involving a change of control. This ownership position may increase if other members of the Smith Family enter into the voting trust agreement, and the voting power relating to this ownership position may increase if shares of our Class A Common Stock held by stockholders who are not parties to the voting trust agreement are converted into shares of our Common Stock. The voting trust agreement provides that in the event one of the parties to the voting trust agreement wants to withdraw from the trust or transfer any of its shares of our Class A Common Stock, such shares of our Class A Common Stock are automatically exchanged for shares of our Common Stock held by the trust to the extent available in the trust. In addition, the trust will have the right to purchase the shares of our Class A Common Stock and our Common Stock proposed to be withdrawn or transferred from the trust. As a result, the Smith Family members that are parties to the voting trust agreement have the ability to maintain their collective voting rights in our company even if certain members of the Smith Family decide to transfer their shares.



