ITEM 1A – RISK FACTORS

You should carefully
consider the risk factors set forth below and all other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the documents incorporated by reference, before making an investment decision regarding our common stock. If any of the
events contemplated by the following risks actually occurs, then our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. As a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose
all or part of your investment. The risks and uncertainties below are not the only risks facing our company.



•The effects of the global economic downturn could have a material adverse effect on our business

The U.S. economy is improving and other geographic areas in which we operate are showing signs of improvement as well. The global credit and capital markets
are still showing signs of stress, however, and threaten to stall or reverse the course of the recovery. If this were to occur it could adversely affect consumer confidence and spending patterns which could result in decreased demand for the
products we sell, a delay in purchases, increased price competition, and slower adoption of energy efficient products which could negatively impact our profitability and/or cash flow. In addition, the current economic conditions, including the
credit market conditions, could negatively impact our vendors and customers, which could result in an increase in bad debt expense, customer and vendor bankruptcies, interruption or delay in supply of materials, and increased material prices, which
could negatively impact our ability to distribute, market and sell our products and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.



•A portion of our business could continue to be adversely affected by a decline in new residential or commercial construction

A portion of our products are sold into the new residential and commercial construction markets. The strength of these
markets depends on new housing starts and business investment, which are a function of many factors beyond our control, including interest rates, employment levels, availability of credit and consumer confidence. Further downturns in the new
construction markets we serve could result in lower revenues and lower profitability. New housing starts declined in 2008 and 2009 and may continue at the lower levels or decline further. We believe that approximately 10 percent of our Water
Products and 25 percent of our Electrical Products residential businesses, respectively, are affected by changes in the residential housing construction markets. Commercial construction activity, which has been high in recent years, could continue
the decline that began in the second half of 2008 and declined further in 2009. Furthermore, though we believe that the majority of the commercial business we serve is for replacement, we could also be affected by changes in the commercial
construction market.







•A portion of our business could be affected by a slowing Chinese economy

We have experienced above average growth in sales in China for both our Water Products and Electrical Products segments. If the Chinese economy were to
experience a significant slowdown it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.



•A material loss, cancellation, reduction, or delay in purchases by one or more of our largest customers could harm our business

Net sales to our operating units’ four largest customers represented approximately 29 percent of 2009 net sales. We
expect that customer concentration will continue for the foreseeable future in light of the global economic downturn. Our dependence on sales from a relatively small number of customers makes our relationship with each of these customers important
to our business. We cannot assure that we will be able to retain our largest customers. Some of our customers may in the future shift their purchases of products to our competitors or to other sources. The loss of one or more of our largest
customers, any material reduction or delay in sales to these customers, our inability to successfully develop relationships with additional customers, or our inability to execute on pricing actions could have a material adverse effect on our
financial position, results of operations and cash flows.



•Because we participate in markets that are highly competitive, our revenues could decline as we respond to competition

We sell all of our products in highly competitive markets. We compete in each of our targeted markets based on product
design, reliability, quality of products and services, advanced technologies, product performance, maintenance costs and price. We compete against manufacturers located in the United States and throughout the world. We also face potential
competition from some OEMs to whom we sell our electrical products and from our customers and the end users of our products, who continually assess any costs that could be reduced by vertically integrating or using alternate sources for the products
we manufacture. Some of our competitors may have greater financial, marketing, manufacturing, and distribution resources than we have. We cannot assure that our products and services will continue to compete successfully with those of our
competitors or that we will be able to retain our customer base or improve or maintain our profit margins on sales to our customers, all of which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.



•We increasingly manufacture and sell our products outside the United States, which may present additional risks to our business

A significant portion of our 2009 net sales were attributable to products manufactured outside of the United States,
principally in Mexico and China. Approximately 4,880 of our 16,000 total employees and 14 of our 36 manufacturing facilities are located in Mexico. Approximately 6,386 employees and six manufacturing facilities are located in China. International
operations generally are subject to various risks, including political, religious, and economic instability, local labor market conditions, the imposition of foreign tariffs and other trade restrictions, the impact of foreign government regulations,
and the effects of income and withholding tax, governmental expropriation, and differences in business practices. We may incur increased costs and experience delays or disruptions in product deliveries and payments in connection with international
manufacturing and sales that could cause loss of revenue. Unfavorable changes in the political, regulatory, and business climate could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.



•We are subject to regulation of our international operations that could adversely affect our business and results of operations

Due to our global operations, we are subject to many laws governing international relations, including those that prohibit
improper payments to government officials and restrict where we can do business, what information or products we can supply to certain countries and what information we can provide to a non-U.S. government, including but not limited to the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act and the U.S. Export Administration Act. Violations of these laws, which are complex, may result in criminal penalties or sanctions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of
operations.







•In serving U.S. customers of our electric motors business, we manufacture a significant portion of our products in Mexico and China, which exposes
us to the risk of increased labor costs due to both wage inflation in Mexico and stability or increases in the value of the Mexican peso and Chinese RMB relative to the U.S. dollar

Almost all of our electric motor manufacturing productive labor hours are incurred in Mexico and China. The peso based costs we incur manufacturing
these products are directly related to changes in labor costs in Mexico and fluctuations in exchange rates of the Mexican peso relative to the U.S. dollar. The labor costs we incur are measured in U.S. dollars and based on the cost of labor in
Mexican pesos. Historically, Mexico has had higher wage inflation than the United States. That inflation does not adversely affect our costs when there is a corresponding decrease in the value of the Mexican peso relative to the U.S. dollar.
However, during periods in which the value of the Mexican peso increases or remains stable relative to the U.S. dollar, higher wage inflation in Mexico results in an increase in our labor costs. Manufacturing and material costs we incur in China are
principally incurred in Chinese RMB. If the RMB continues to strengthen against the U.S. dollar, our costs would increase.



•Our operations could be adversely impacted by material price volatility and supplier concentration

The market prices for certain key materials we purchase (e.g., steel, copper, aluminum, diesel fuel and natural gas) have been very volatile in the recent
past. While our company periodically enters into futures contracts to fix the cost of certain raw material purchases, principally copper and aluminum, significant increases in the cost of any of the key materials we purchase could increase our cost
of doing business and ultimately could lead to lower operating earnings if we are not able to recover these cost increases through price increases to our customers. Historically, there has been a lag in any customer recovery of increased material
costs which could negatively impact our profitability. In addition, in some cases we are dependent on a single or limited number of suppliers for some of the raw materials and components required in the manufacture of our product. A significant
disruption or termination of the supply from one of these suppliers could delay sales or increase cost which could result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.



•Our underfunded pension plans require future pension contributions which could limit our flexibility in managing our company

Due to the negative investment returns in 2008, the projected benefit obligations of our defined benefit pension plans
exceeded the fair value of the plan assets by $233 million at December 31, 2009. Beginning in 2008, the minimum required contribution equals the target normal cost plus a seven year amortization of any funding shortfall, offset by any ERISA
credit balance. While the company is not required to make a contribution to the plan in 2010, the company is forecasting contributions of between $25 to $30 million and $40 to $50 million in 2010 and 2011, respectively. Among the key
assumptions inherent in the actuarially calculated pension plan obligation and pension plan expense are the discount rate and the expected rate of return on plan assets. If interest rates and actual rates of return on invested plan assets were to
decrease significantly, our pension plan obligations could increase materially. The size of future required pension contributions could result in us dedicating a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to making the contributions which
could negatively impact our flexibility in managing the company.



•We have significant goodwill and an impairment of our goodwill could cause a decline in our net worth

Our total assets include significant goodwill. The goodwill results from our acquisitions, representing the excess of the purchase price we paid over the
fair value of the tangible and intangible assets we acquired. We assess whether there has been impairment in the value of our goodwill during the fourth quarter of each calendar year or sooner if triggering events warrant. If future operating
performance at either of our businesses does not meet expectations, we may be required to reflect, under current applicable accounting rules, a non-cash charge to operating results for goodwill impairment. The recognition of an impairment of a
significant portion of goodwill would negatively affect our results of operations and total capitalization, the effect of which could be material. A significant reduction in our stockholders’ equity due to an impairment of goodwill may affect
our ability to maintain the required debt-to-capital ratio existing under our debt arrangements. We have identified the valuation of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets as a critical accounting policy. See “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting Policies—Goodwill and Indefinite-lived Intangible Assets” included in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.







•We purchased a water treatment company in late 2009 and we may encounter integration or operational difficulties

We purchased 80 percent of the water treatment business of Tianlong Holding Co., Ltd. of Hong Kong on November 24, 2009. The successful integration
of the acquisition will require substantial attention from our management and the management of the acquired business, which could decrease the time management has to serve and attract customers. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to
successfully integrate this recent acquisition, that this acquisition will operate profitably or that it will be able to achieve the financial or operational success we expect from the acquisition. Our financial condition, cash flows and operational
results could be adversely affected if we do not successfully integrate the newly acquired business or if our other businesses suffer on account of the increased focus on the newly acquired business.



•A substantial contribution to our financial results has come through acquisitions, and we may not be able to identify or complete future
acquisitions, which could adversely affect our future growth

Acquisitions we have made since 1997 have had a
significant impact on our results of operations. While we will continue to evaluate potential acquisitions, we may not be able to identify and successfully negotiate suitable acquisitions, obtain financing for future acquisitions on satisfactory
terms, utilize cash flow from operations, obtain regulatory approval for certain acquisitions, or otherwise complete acquisitions in the future. If we complete any future acquisitions, then we may not be able to successfully integrate the acquired
businesses or operate them profitably or accomplish our strategic objectives for those acquisitions. Our level of indebtedness may increase in the future if we finance acquisitions with debt, which would cause us to incur additional interest expense
and could increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions and limit our ability to service our debt or obtain additional financing. We cannot assure you that future acquisitions will not have a material adverse affect
on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.



•Our results of operations may be negatively impacted by product liability lawsuits and claims

Our water heater and electric motor products expose us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture, sale and use of
our products. While we currently maintain what we believe to be suitable product liability insurance, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain this insurance on acceptable terms, that this insurance will provide adequate protection
against potential liabilities or that our insurance providers will successfully weather the current economic downturn. In addition, we self-insure a portion of product liability claims. A series of successful claims against us could materially and
adversely affect our reputation and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.



•Our credit facility expires in February 2011 and the terms of its replacement will be based on prevailing lending conditions when it is replaced

In addition to issuing commercial paper and utilizing short term credit lines, we rely on our $425 million revolving credit
facility to support our daily operations. The global credit markets tightened considerably in 2008 and recovered somewhat in 2009. If these conditions remain unchanged or worsen, our replacement credit facility may have less favorable terms than the
facility we have now. In particular, the new facility could have higher borrowing costs and more restrictive covenants. And, depending on banks’ willingness to lend, the facility could be smaller in size. If credit terms deteriorate
considerably, a credit facility with significantly less favorable terms could have an adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.



•Changes in regulations or standards could adversely affect our business

Our products are subject to a wide variety of statutory, regulatory and industry standards and requirements. These include energy efficiency, climate
emissions, labeling and safety-related requirements. While we believe our products are currently some of the most efficient, safest, and environment-friendly products available, a significant change to these regulatory requirements, whether
federal, state or local, or otherwise to industry standards could substantially increase manufacturing costs, impact the size and timing of demand for our products, or put us at a competitive disadvantage, any of which could harm our business and
have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.







•Income tax regulations may change, thus negatively impacting our future operating results

We conduct our business internationally. As a result, our financial results may be negatively impacted by changes in international taxation rules in the
United States. If the United States international tax law changes are enacted as currently being discussed, it may have a significant negative impact on our reported financial results and cash flows from operations.



•Certain members of the founding family of our company and trusts for their benefit have the ability to influence all matters requiring stockholder
approval



We have two classes of common equity: our Common Stock and our Class A Common Stock. The holders of Common Stock currently are entitled, as a class, to elect only one-third of our board of directors. The holders of Class A Common Stock are entitled, as a class, to elect the remaining directors. Certain members of the founding family of our company and trusts for their benefit (Smith Family) have entered into a voting trust agreement with respect to shares of our Class A Common Stock and shares of our Common Stock they own. As of December 31, 2009, these members of the Smith Family own approximately 54.96 percent of the total voting power of our outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock and Common Stock, taken together as a single class, and approximately 80.47 percent of the voting power of the outstanding shares of our Class A Common Stock, as a separate class. Due to the differences in the voting rights between shares of our Common Stock and shares of our Class A Common Stock, the Smith Family is in a position to control to a large extent the outcome of matters requiring a stockholder vote, including the adoption of amendments to our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or approval of transactions involving a change of control. This ownership position may increase if other members of the Smith Family enter into the voting trust agreement, and the voting power relating to this ownership position may increase if shares of our Class A Common Stock held by stockholders who are not parties to the voting trust agreement are converted into shares of our Common Stock. The voting trust agreement provides that in the event one of the parties to the voting trust agreement wants to withdraw from the trust or transfer any of its shares of our Class A Common Stock, such shares of our Class A Common Stock are automatically exchanged for shares of our Common Stock held by the trust to the extent available in the trust. In addition, the trust will have the right to purchase the shares of our Class A Common Stock and our Common Stock proposed to be withdrawn or transferred from the trust. As a result, the Smith Family members that are parties to the voting trust agreement have the ability to maintain their collective voting rights in our company even if certain members of the Smith Family decide to transfer their shares.



