ITEM 1A – RISK FACTORS

You should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below and all other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the documents incorporated by reference, before making an
investment decision regarding our common stock. If any of the events contemplated by the following risks actually occurs, then our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. As a result, the
trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. The risks and uncertainties below are not the only risks facing our company.







•The effects of the global economic downturn could have a material adverse effect on our business

The global credit and capital markets are still showing signs of stress, and threaten to stall or reverse the course of any recovery. If
this were to occur it could adversely affect consumer confidence and spending patterns which could result in decreased demand for the products we sell, a delay in purchases, increased price competition, or slower adoption of energy efficient water
heaters or boilers which could negatively impact our profitability and/or cash flow. In addition, a deterioration in current economic conditions, including the credit market conditions, could negatively impact our vendors and customers, which could
result in an increase in bad debt expense, customer and vendor bankruptcies, interruption or delay in supply of materials, or increased material prices, which could negatively impact our ability to distribute, market and sell our products and our
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.



•A portion of our business could continue to be adversely affected by a decline in new commercial construction

Commercial construction activity could continue the decline that began in the second half of 2008 and declined further in 2009 and 2010
before leveling off in 2011. Though we believe that the majority of the commercial business we serve is for replacement, we could also be affected by changes in the commercial construction market.



•A portion of our business could be affected by a slowing Chinese economy

Approximately 78 percent of our growth over the past five years has occurred in China. In 2012, we are commencing construction on a
facility which will expand our manufacturing capacity by 50 percent. If the Chinese economy were to experience a significant slowdown, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.



•A material loss, cancellation, reduction, or delay in purchases by one or more of our largest customers could harm our business

Net sales to our five largest customers represented approximately 38 percent of our 2011 net sales from
continuing operations. We expect that customer concentration will continue for the foreseeable future. Our dependence on sales from a relatively small number of customers makes our relationship with each of these customers important to our business.
We cannot assure that we will be able to retain our largest customers. Some of our customers may in the future shift their purchases of products to our competitors. The loss of one or more of our largest customers, any material reduction or delay in
sales to these customers, our inability to successfully develop relationships with additional customers, or our inability to execute on pricing actions could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash
flows.



•Our newly acquired Lochinvar business’ growth could stall or our stated synergies could fail to materialize resulting in lower than expected
accretion from the acquisition

The compound annual growth rate of Lochinvar’s revenues has been
eight percent over the past five years, largely due to the transition in the boiler industry from lower efficiency, non-condensing boilers to higher efficiency, condensing boilers and Lochinvar is a leading residential and commercial condensing
boiler company. In 2003, approximately five percent of the boilers sold in the U.S. were condensing boilers and by 2010, the percentage had grown to approximately 25 percent. We expect the transition to continue, which would result in greater than
ten percent growth in Lochinvar’s sales in 2012 and greater than eight percent growth in Lochinvar sales for the foreseeable future after 2012. If the transition to higher efficiency, condensing boilers stalls as a result of lower energy costs,
another recession occurs or our competitors’ technologies surpassing Lochinvar’s, our growth rate could be lower than expected. In addition, we have stated that we expect to achieve synergies from the Lochinvar acquisition of $10 to $15
million in the next several years. If our growth rate slows or our synergies fail to materialize, our stated accretion from the Lochinvar acquisition in 2012 of $.40 to $.50 per share could be materially impacted.



•Because we participate in markets that are highly competitive, our revenues could decline as we respond to competition

We sell all of our products in highly competitive markets. We compete in each of our targeted markets
based on product design, reliability, quality of products and services, advanced technologies, product performance, maintenance costs and price. We compete against manufacturers located, primarily, in North America and China. Some of our competitors
may have greater financial, marketing, manufacturing, research and development and distribution resources than we have. We cannot assure that our products and services will continue to compete successfully with those of our competitors or that we
will be able to retain our customer base or improve or maintain our profit margins on sales to our customers, all of which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.







•We increasingly manufacture and sell our products outside the U.S., which may present additional risks to our business

Approximately 35 percent of our 2011 net sales was attributable to products manufactured and sold
outside of the U.S., principally in China. Approximately 5,800 of our 10,600 total employees as of December 31, 2011 were located in China. At December 31, 2011, nearly $300 million of our cash balances were located in China. In 2010, we
opened a manufacturing plant in India. International operations generally are subject to various risks, including political, religious, and economic instability, local labor market conditions, the imposition of foreign tariffs and other trade
restrictions, the impact of foreign government regulations, the effects of income and withholding taxes, governmental expropriation, imposition or increase in withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by foreign subsidiaries,
labor relations problems, the imposition of environmental or employment laws, or other restrictions by foreign governments and differences in business practices. We may incur increased costs and experience delays or disruptions in product deliveries
and payments in connection with international manufacturing and sales that could cause loss of revenue. Unfavorable changes in the political, regulatory, and business climate could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results
of operations and cash flows or our ability to repatriate funds to the U.S.



•Our international operations are subject to risks related to foreign currencies

We have significant operations outside of the U.S., primarily in China and Canada and to a lesser extent India and Mexico, and therefore,
hold assets, incur liabilities, earn revenues and pay expenses in a variety of currencies other than the U. S. dollar. The financial statements of our foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars. As a result, we are subject to risks
associated with operating in foreign countries, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates and interest rates, or hyperinflation in some foreign countries. Furthermore, we typically price our products in our foreign operations in local
currencies. As a result, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the local currencies of our profitable foreign subsidiaries could have a negative effect on our profitability. In addition to currency translation risks, we incur a
currency transaction risk whenever one of our operating subsidiaries enters into either a purchase or sale transaction using a currency different from the operating subsidiaries’ functional currency. The above mentioned risks in North America
and Asia may hurt our ability to generate revenue and profits in those regions in the future.



•We are subject to regulation of our international operations that could adversely affect our business and results of operations

Due to our global operations, we are subject to many laws governing international relations, including
those that prohibit improper payments to government officials and restrict where we can do business, what information or products we can supply to certain countries and what information we can provide to a non-U.S. government, including but not
limited to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.S. Export Administration Act. Violations of these laws, which are complex, may result in criminal penalties or sanctions that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows.



•Our operations could be adversely impacted by material price volatility and supplier concentration

The market prices for certain raw materials we purchase, primarily steel, have been very volatile in the recent past. Significant
increases in the cost of any of the key materials we purchase could increase our cost of doing business and ultimately could lead to lower operating earnings if we are not able to recover these cost increases through price increases to our
customers. Historically, there has been a lag in our ability to recover increased material costs from customers, and that lag could negatively impact our profitability. In addition, in some cases we are dependent on a limited number of suppliers for
some of the raw materials and components required in the manufacture of our product. A significant disruption or termination of the supply from one of these suppliers could delay sales or increase costs which could result in a material adverse
effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.



•Our business may be adversely impacted by product defects

Product defects can occur through our own product development, design and manufacturing processes or through our reliance on third
parties for component design and manufacturing activities. We may incur various expenses related to product defects, including product warranty costs, product recall and retrofit costs and product liability costs. While we maintain a reserve for our
product warranty costs based on certain estimates and our knowledge of current events and actions, our actual warranty costs may exceed our reserve, resulting in current period expenses and a need to increase our accruals for warranty charges. In







addition, the reputation of our brand may be diminished by product defects and recalls. Further, our inability to cure a product defect could result in the failure of a product line or the
temporary or permanent withdrawal from a product or market. Any of these events may have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.



•Our underfunded pension plans require future pension contributions which could limit our flexibility in managing our company

Due to the significant negative investment returns in 2008 and falling interest rates in recent years,
the projected benefit obligations of our defined benefit pension plans exceeded the fair value of the plan assets by approximately $138 million at December 31, 2011. Beginning in 2008, our minimum required pension contributions equal our target
normal cost plus a seven year amortization of any funding shortfall, offset by any Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) credit balance. We are forecasting that there will be no required contributions to the plan in 2012, and we do
not plan to make any voluntary contributions. However, we cannot provide any assurance that contributions will not be required in the future. Among the key assumptions inherent in our actuarially calculated pension plan obligation and pension plan
expense are the discount rate and the expected rate of return on plan assets. If interest rates and actual rates of return on invested plan assets were to decrease significantly, our pension plan obligations could increase materially. The size of
future required pension contributions could result in us dedicating a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to making the contributions which could negatively impact our flexibility in managing the company.



•We have significant goodwill and an impairment of our goodwill could cause a decline in our net worth

Our total assets include significant goodwill. Our goodwill results from our acquisitions, representing the excess of the purchase prices
we paid over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets we acquired. We assess whether there has been impairment in the value of our goodwill during the fourth quarter of each calendar year or sooner if triggering events warrant. If
future operating performance at our businesses do not meet expectations, we may be required to reflect a non-cash charge to operating results for goodwill impairment. The recognition of an impairment of a significant portion of goodwill would
negatively affect our results of operations and total capitalization, the affect of which could be material. A significant reduction in our stockholders’ equity due to an impairment of goodwill may affect our ability to maintain the
debt-to-capital ratio required under our existing debt arrangements. We have identified the valuation of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets as a critical accounting policy. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting Policies—Goodwill and Indefinite-lived Intangible Assets” included in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



•We purchased a water treatment company in late 2009 and we may encounter additional operational difficulties

We purchased 80 percent of the water treatment business of Tianlong in November 2009, and purchased the remaining 20 percent in the
fourth quarter of 2010. We are operating the business as SWT. The successful operation of SWT will require substantial attention from our management which could decrease the time our management has to serve and attract customers. We cannot provide
assurance that this acquisition will operate profitably or that it will be able to achieve the financial or operational success we expect from the acquisition. The progress of our water treatment business has been slower than anticipated due to a
number of unforeseen challenges including lower than anticipated sales and the need to move the manufacturing facility sooner than planned. Our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected if our other
businesses suffer on account of the increased focus on the acquired business.



•A substantial contribution to our financial results has come through acquisitions and we intend to grow by acquisitions using a portion of the
cash proceeds from the sale of EPC, and we may not be able to identify or complete future acquisitions, which could adversely affect our future growth

Acquisitions we have made over the last several years have had a significant impact on our results of operations. While we will continue to evaluate potential acquisitions and we intend to use a portion
of the cash proceeds from the sale of EPC for future acquisitions, we may not be able to identify and successfully negotiate suitable acquisitions, obtain financing for future acquisitions on satisfactory terms, utilize cash flows from operations,
obtain regulatory approval for certain acquisitions, or otherwise complete acquisitions in the future. If we complete any future acquisitions, then we may not be able to successfully integrate the acquired businesses or operate them profitably or
accomplish our strategic objectives for those acquisitions. Our level of indebtedness may increase in the future if we finance acquisitions with debt, which would cause us to incur additional interest expense and could increase our vulnerability to
general adverse economic and industry conditions and limit our ability to service our debt or obtain additional financing. We cannot assure you that future acquisitions will not have a material adverse affect on our financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows.







•We own a significant number of shares of RBC, and a decline in market value could occur prior to our sale of the shares

In addition to cash proceeds of approximately $760 million from the sale of EPC to RBC, we received
approximately 2.83 million shares of RBC common stock. In 2011, we entered into an equity collar contract for 50 percent of the shares to protect a portion of the value of the stock. We are exposed to market fluctuations for the remaining 50
percent of the unhedged RBC shares. We do not intend to be long-term shareholders of RBC, and a decline in the market value of RBC shares prior to our sale of these shares could have a material adverse impact on the value of our holdings.



•Our results of operations may be negatively impacted by product liability lawsuits and claims

Our water heating and boiler products expose us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture, sale
and use of our products. While we currently maintain what we believe to be suitable product liability insurance, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain this insurance on acceptable terms, that this insurance will provide adequate
protection against potential liabilities or that our insurance providers will successfully weather the current economic downturn. In addition, we self-insure a portion of product liability claims. A series of successful claims against us could
materially and adversely affect our reputation and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.



•Changes in regulations or standards could adversely affect our business

Our products are subject to a wide variety of statutory, regulatory and industry standards and requirements. These include energy
efficiency, climate emissions, labeling and safety-related requirements. While we believe our products are currently some of the most efficient, safest, and environment-friendly products available, a significant change to these regulatory
requirements, whether federal, foreign, state or local, or otherwise to industry standards could substantially increase manufacturing costs, impact the size and timing of demand for our products, or put us at a competitive disadvantage, any of which
could harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.



•If we are unable to develop product innovations and improve our technology and expertise, we could lose customers or market share

Our success may depend on our ability to adapt to technological changes in the water heating, boiler
and water treatment industry. If we are unable to timely develop and introduce new products, or enhance existing products, in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements or demands, our competitiveness could be materially and
adversely affected.



•Certain members of the founding family of our company and trusts for their benefit have the ability to influence all matters requiring
stockholder approval



We have two classes of common equity: our Common Stock and our Class A Common Stock. The holders of Common Stock currently are entitled, as a class, to elect only one-third of our board of directors. The holders of Class A Common Stock are entitled, as a class, to elect the remaining directors. Certain members of the founding family of our company and trusts for their benefit (Smith Family) have entered into a voting trust agreement with respect to shares of our Class A Common Stock and shares of our Common Stock they own. As of December 31, 2011 these members of the Smith Family own approximately 57.4 percent of the total voting power of our outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock and Common Stock, taken together as a single class, and approximately 87.1 percent of the voting power of the outstanding shares of our Class A Common Stock, as a separate class. Due to the differences in the voting rights between shares of our Common Stock and shares of our Class A Common Stock, the Smith Family is in a position to control to a large extent the outcome of matters requiring a stockholder vote, including the adoption of amendments to our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or approval of transactions involving a change of control. This ownership position may increase if other members of the Smith Family enter into the voting trust agreement, and the voting power relating to this ownership position may increase if shares of our Class A Common Stock held by stockholders who are not parties to the voting trust agreement are converted into shares of our Common Stock. The voting trust agreement provides that in the event one of the parties to the voting trust agreement wants to withdraw from the trust or transfer any of its shares of our Class A Common Stock, such shares of our Class A Common Stock are automatically exchanged for shares of our Common Stock held by the trust to the extent available in the trust. In addition, the trust will have the right to purchase the shares of our Class A Common Stock and our Common Stock proposed to be withdrawn or transferred from the trust. As a result, the Smith Family members that are parties to the voting trust agreement have the ability to maintain their collective voting rights in our company even if certain members of the Smith Family decide to transfer their shares.



