ITEM 1A – RISK FACTORS

You should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below and all other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the documents
incorporated by reference, before making an investment decision regarding our common stock. If any of the events contemplated by the following risks actually occurs, then our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be
materially adversely affected. As a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. The risks and uncertainties below are not the only risks facing our company.



•The effects of the global economic downturn could have a material adverse effect on our business

The
global economy is still showing signs of stress, and could stall or reverse the course of any recovery. If this were to occur it could adversely affect consumer confidence and spending patterns which could result in decreased demand for the products
we sell, a delay in purchases, increased price competition, or slower adoption of energy efficient water heaters and boilers which could negatively impact our profitability and cash flows. In addition, a deterioration in current economic conditions,
including credit market conditions, could negatively impact our vendors and customers, which could result in an increase in bad debt expense, customer and vendor bankruptcies, interruption or delay in supply of materials, or increased material
prices, which could negatively impact our ability to distribute, market and sell our products and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.



•A portion of our business could be affected by a slowing Chinese economy

Our sales growth in China has
averaged approximately 25 percent per year over the past five years and we anticipate sales growing approximately two times the rate of China’s gross domestic product growth in 2014. In 2013, we opened a second manufacturing facility that will
expand our manufacturing capacity by 50 percent when fully utilized. If the Chinese economy were to experience a significant slowdown or urbanization was to stall, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash
flows.



•Failure to achieve one or more of our 2015 aspirations could negatively impact investors’ interest in our common stock

We introduced our 2015 financial aspirations in late 2012 and updated them in 2013 and 2014. We identified specific growth expectations for our A. O. Smith
branded products in China, our U.S. residential and commercial water heaters, our Lochinvar-branded products, our water treatment products and our products sold in India. We identified earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) margin aspirations for
our North America and Rest of World segments. Failure to profitably grow as expected could negatively impact our ability to achieve these aspirations. Failure to achieve one or more of these growth aspirations could adversely affect the trading
price of our common stock.



•A material loss, cancellation, reduction, or delay in purchases by one or more of our largest customers could harm our business

Net sales to our five largest customers represented approximately 38 percent of our 2013 net sales. We expect that customer concentration will continue for the
foreseeable future. Our dependence on sales from a relatively small number of customers makes our relationship with each of these customers important to our business. We cannot assure that we will be able to retain our largest customers. Some of our
customers may in the future shift their purchases of products to our competitors. The loss of one or more of our largest customers, any material reduction or delay in sales to these customers, our inability to successfully develop relationships with
additional customers, or our inability to execute on pricing actions could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.



•A portion of our business could be adversely affected by a decline in new commercial construction

The
recovery in commercial construction activity in North America is fragile and commercial construction could decline again after showing improvements in 2013. Though we believe that the majority of the commercial business we serve is for replacement
of existing products, changes in the commercial construction market could affect us.






•Our Lochinvar-branded sales’ growth could stall resulting in lower than expected sales and earnings

The compound annual growth rate of Lochinvar-branded revenues has been over ten percent per year since our acquisition of Lochinvar, largely due to the
transition in the boiler industry in the U.S. from lower efficiency, non-condensing boilers to higher efficiency, condensing boilers and our Lochinvar brand is a leader in residential and commercial condensing boilers. In 2003, approximately five
percent of the boilers sold in the U.S. were condensing boilers and by 2012, the percentage had grown to approximately 40 percent. We expect the transition to continue, which would result in approximately ten percent growth in Lochinvar-branded
sales in 2014 and for the foreseeable future after 2014. If the transition to higher efficiency, condensing boilers stalls as a result of lower energy costs, another recession occurs or our competitors’ technologies surpass our technology, our
growth rate could be lower than expected.



•A failure in our implementation of a new enterprise resource planning system or our information technology infrastructure or applications could negatively affect our business

We depend on information technology to record and process customers’ orders, manufacture and ship products in a timely manner, and maintain the financial
accuracy of our business records. We are in the process of implementing a global enterprise resource planning system (ERP) that will redesign and deploy new processes and a common information system across our plants over a period of several
years. There is no certainty that this system will deliver the expected benefits. The failure to achieve our goals may impact our ability to process transactions accurately and efficiently, which could increase costs impacting
profitability or otherwise impact our business. In addition, the failure to either deliver the application on time, or anticipate the necessary readiness and training needs, could lead to business disruption and loss of customers and revenue. Also,
our information systems could be penetrated by outside parties intent on extracting information, corrupting information, or disrupting business processes. Such unauthorized access could disrupt our business and could result in the loss of
assets.



•We increasingly sell our products outside the U.S., which may present additional risks to our business



•Because we participate in markets that are highly competitive, our revenues could decline as we respond to competition

We sell all of our products in highly competitive markets. We compete in each of our targeted markets based on product design, reliability, quality of products
and services, advanced technologies, product performance, maintenance costs and price. We compete against manufacturers located, primarily, in North America and China. Some of our competitors may have greater financial, marketing, manufacturing,
research and development and distribution resources than we have. We cannot assure that our products and services will continue to compete successfully with those of our competitors or that we will be able to retain our customer base or improve or
maintain our profit margins on sales to our customers, all of which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.



•If we are unable to develop product innovations and improve our technology and expertise, we could lose customers or market share

Our success may depend on our ability to adapt to technological changes in the water heating, boiler and water treatment industries. If we are unable to timely
develop and introduce new products, or enhance existing products, in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements or demands, our competitiveness could be materially and adversely affected. Our ability to develop and successfully
market new products and to develop, acquire, and retain necessary intellectual property rights is essential to our continued success, but cannot reasonably be assured.






•A substantial contribution to our financial results has come through acquisitions and we may not be able to identify or complete future acquisitions, which could adversely affect our future growth

Acquisitions we have made have had a significant impact on our results of operations. While we will continue to evaluate potential
acquisitions and we intend to use a significant portion of our available capital for future acquisitions, we may not be able to identify and successfully negotiate suitable acquisitions, obtain financing for future acquisitions on satisfactory
terms, utilize cash flows from operations, obtain regulatory approval for certain acquisitions, or otherwise complete acquisitions in the future. If we complete any future acquisitions, then we may not be able to successfully integrate the acquired
businesses or operate them profitably or accomplish our strategic objectives for those acquisitions. If we complete any future acquisitions in new geographies, our unfamiliarity with local regulations and market customs may impact our ability to
operate them profitably or achieve our strategic objectives for those acquisitions. Our level of indebtedness may increase in the future if we finance acquisitions with debt, which would cause us to incur additional interest expense and could
increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions and limit our ability to service our debt or obtain additional financing. The impact of future acquisitions may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows.



•Our international operations are subject to risks related to foreign currencies

We have significant
operations outside of the U.S., primarily in China and Canada and to a lesser extent Europe and India, and therefore, hold assets, incur liabilities, earn revenues and pay expenses in a variety of currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The financial
statements of our foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars in our consolidated financial statements. As a result, we are subject to risks associated with operating in foreign countries, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates
and interest rates, or hyperinflation in some foreign countries. Furthermore, typically our products are priced in foreign countries in local currencies. As a result, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the local currencies of
our foreign markets could have a negative effect on our profitability. In addition to currency translation risks, we incur a currency transaction risk whenever one of our subsidiaries enters into either a purchase or sale transaction using a
currency different from the operating subsidiaries’ functional currency. These risks may hurt our reported sales and profits in the future or negatively impact revenues and earnings translated from foreign currencies into U.S. dollars.



•Changes in regulations or standards could adversely affect our business

Our products are subject to a
wide variety of statutory, regulatory and industry standards and requirements related to, among other items, energy efficiency, environmental emissions, labeling and safety. Specifically, we are currently redesigning our residential water
heater product offerings in the U.S. to meet new mandated energy conservation standards by April 16, 2015 and adapting to a proposed revision by the U.S. Department of Energy to the method of testing used to determine compliance with such
energy standards for U.S. water heaters. While we believe our products are currently efficient, safe and environment-friendly and we are on course to comply with the new energy standards and method of testing in the U.S., an inability to comply with
the proposed requirements or a significant change to these regulatory requirements, whether federal, foreign, state or local, or otherwise to industry standards could substantially increase manufacturing costs, impact the size and timing of demand
for our products, or put us at a competitive disadvantage, any of which could harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.



•Our business may be adversely impacted by product defects

Product defects can occur through our own
product development, design and manufacturing processes or through our reliance on third parties for component design and manufacturing activities. We may incur various expenses related to product defects, including product warranty costs, product
recall and retrofit costs. While we maintain a reserve for product warranty costs based on certain estimates and our knowledge of current events and actions, our actual warranty costs may exceed our reserve, resulting in current period expenses and
a need to increase our reserves for warranty charges. In addition, product defects and recalls may diminish the reputation of our brand. Further, our inability to cure a product defect could result in the failure of a product line or the temporary
or permanent withdrawal from a product or market. Any of these events may have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.






•Retention of key personnel is important to our business

Attracting and retaining talented employees is
important to the continued success of our business. Failure to retain key personnel, particularly on the leadership team, would have a material effect on our business and our ability to execute our business strategies in a timely and effective
manner.



•Our operations could be adversely impacted by material price volatility and supplier concentration

The
market prices for certain raw materials we purchase, primarily steel, have been very volatile. Significant increases in the cost of any of the key materials we purchase could increase our cost of doing business and ultimately could lead to lower
operating earnings if we are not able to recover these cost increases through price increases to our customers. Historically, there has been a lag in our ability to recover increased material costs from customers, and that lag could negatively
impact our profitability. In addition, in some cases we are dependent on a limited number of suppliers for some of the raw materials and components we require in the manufacture of our products. A significant disruption or termination of the supply
from one of these suppliers could delay sales or increase costs which could result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.



•We are subject to regulation of our international operations that could adversely affect our business and results of operations

Due to our global operations, we are subject to many laws governing international relations, including those that prohibit improper payments to government
officials and restrict where we can do business, what information or products we can supply to certain countries and what information we can provide to a non-U.S. government, including but not limited to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the
U.S. Export Administration Act. Violations of these laws, which are complex, may result in criminal penalties or sanctions that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.



•Our results of operations may be negatively impacted by product liability lawsuits and claims

Our water
heating, boiler and water treatment products expose us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture, sale and use of our products. While we currently maintain what we believe to be suitable product liability
insurance, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain this insurance on acceptable terms, that this insurance will provide adequate protection against potential liabilities or that our insurance providers will be able to ultimately pay
all insured losses. In addition, we self-insure a portion of product liability claims. A series of successful claims against us could materially and adversely affect our reputation and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.



•Our underfunded pension plans require future pension contributions which could limit our flexibility in managing our company






•We have significant goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets and an impairment of our goodwill could cause a decline in our net worth

Our total assets include significant goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets. Our goodwill results from our acquisitions, representing the excess of
the purchase prices we paid over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets we acquired. We assess whether there has been impairments in the value of our goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets during the fourth quarter of each
calendar year or sooner if triggering events warrant. If future operating performance at our businesses do not meet expectations, we may be required to reflect non-cash charges to operating results for goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible asset
impairments. The recognition of an impairment of a significant portion of goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets would negatively affect our results of operations and total capitalization, the effect of which could be material. A significant
reduction in our stockholders’ equity due to an impairment of goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets may affect our ability to maintain the debt-to-capital ratio required under our existing debt arrangements. We have identified the
valuation of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets as a critical accounting policy. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting Policies—Goodwill and
Indefinite-lived Intangible Assets” included in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



•New regulations related to conflict minerals could adversely impact our business



•Certain members of the founding family of our company and trusts for their benefit have the ability to influence all matters requiring stockholder approval



We have two classes of common equity: our Common Stock and our Class A Common Stock. The holders of Common Stock currently are entitled, as a class, to elect only one-third of our board of directors. The holders of Class A Common Stock are entitled, as a class, to elect the remaining directors. Certain members of the founding family of our company and trusts for their benefit (Smith Family) have entered into a voting trust agreement with respect to shares of our Class A Common Stock and shares of our Common Stock they own. As of December 31, 2013 these members of the Smith Family own approximately 60.3 percent of the total voting power of our outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock and Common Stock, taken together as a single class, and approximately 95.1 percent of the voting power of the outstanding shares of our Class A Common Stock, as a separate class. Due to the differences in the voting rights between shares of our Common Stock and shares of our Class A Common Stock, the Smith Family is in a position to control to a large extent the outcome of matters requiring a stockholder vote, including the adoption of amendments to our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or approval of transactions involving a change of control. This ownership position may increase if other members of the Smith Family enter into the voting trust agreement, and the voting power relating to this ownership position may increase if shares of our Class A Common Stock held by stockholders who are not parties to the voting trust agreement are converted into shares of our Common Stock. The voting trust agreement provides that in the event one of the parties to the voting trust agreement wants to withdraw from the trust or transfer any of its shares of our Class A Common Stock, such shares of our Class A Common Stock are automatically exchanged for shares of our Common Stock held by the trust to the extent available in the trust. In addition, the trust will have the right to purchase the shares of our Class A Common Stock and our Common Stock proposed to be withdrawn or transferred from the trust. As a result, the Smith Family members that are parties to the voting trust agreement have the ability to maintain their collective voting rights in our company even if certain members of the Smith Family decide to transfer their shares.


