ITEM 1A – RISK FACTORS

You should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below and all other information contained in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K, including the documents incorporated by reference, before making an investment decision regarding our common stock. If any of the events contemplated by the following risks actually occurs, then our business, financial
condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. As a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. The risks and uncertainties below are not the only risks
facing our company.



•We may not complete the sale of our Electrical Products business in the time frame or on the terms we anticipate, or at all







•The effects of the global economic downturn could have a material adverse effect on our business

The U.S. economy is improving and other geographic areas in which we operate are showing signs of improvement as well. The global credit
and capital markets are still showing signs of stress, however, and threaten to stall or reverse the course of the recovery. If this were to occur it could adversely affect consumer confidence and spending patterns which could result in decreased
demand for the products we sell, a delay in purchases, increased price competition, and slower adoption of energy efficient products which could negatively impact our profitability and/or cash flow. In addition, a deterioration in current economic
conditions, including the credit market conditions, could negatively impact our vendors and customers, which could result in an increase in bad debt expense, customer and vendor bankruptcies, interruption or delay in supply of materials, and
increased material prices, which could negatively impact our ability to distribute, market and sell our products and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.



•A portion of our business could continue to be adversely affected by a decline in new residential or commercial construction

A portion of our products are sold into the new residential and commercial construction markets. The
strength of these markets depends on new housing starts and business investment, which are a function of many factors beyond our control, including interest rates, employment levels, availability of credit and consumer confidence. Further downturns
in the new construction markets we serve could result in lower revenues and lower profitability. New housing starts declined in 2008 and 2009 and were flat in 2010 and may continue at the lower levels or decline further. We believe that less than
ten percent of our Water Products residential businesses is affected by changes in the residential housing construction markets. Commercial construction activity could continue the decline that began in the second half of 2008 and declined further
in 2009 and 2010. Furthermore, though we believe that the majority of the commercial business we serve is for replacement, we could also be affected by changes in the commercial construction market.



•A portion of our business could be affected by a slowing Chinese economy

We have experienced above average growth in sales in China. If the Chinese economy were to experience a significant slowdown it could
adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.



•A material loss, cancellation, reduction, or delay in purchases by one or more of our largest customers could harm our business

Net sales to Water Product’s five largest customers represented approximately 43 percent of 2010 net
sales from continuing operations. We expect that customer concentration will continue for the foreseeable future. Our dependence on sales from a relatively small number of customers makes our relationship with each of these customers important to
our business. We cannot assure that we will be able to retain our largest customers. Some of our customers may in the future shift their purchases of products to our competitors or to other sources. The loss of one or more of our largest customers,
any material reduction or delay in sales to these customers, our inability to successfully develop relationships with additional customers, or our inability to execute on pricing actions could have a material adverse effect on our financial
position, results of operations and cash flows.



•Because we participate in markets that are highly competitive, our revenues could decline as we respond to competition

We sell all of our products in highly competitive markets. We compete in each of our targeted markets based
on product design, reliability, quality of products and services, advanced technologies, product performance, maintenance costs and price. We compete against manufacturers located, primarily, in North America and China. Some of our competitors may
have greater financial, marketing, manufacturing, research and development and distribution resources than we have. We cannot assure that our products and services will continue to compete successfully with those of our competitors or that we will
be able to retain our customer base or improve or maintain our profit margins on sales to our customers, all of which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.







•We increasingly manufacture and sell our products outside the United States, which may present additional risks to our business

Approximately 35.5 percent of our 2010 net sales were attributable to products manufactured outside of the
United States, principally in China. Approximately 5,900 of our 10,400 total employees from continuing operations are located in China. In 2010, we opened a manufacturing plant in India. International operations generally are subject to various
risks, including political, religious, and economic instability, local labor market conditions, the imposition of foreign tariffs and other trade restrictions, the impact of foreign government regulations, and the effects of income and withholding
tax, governmental expropriation, and differences in business practices. We may incur increased costs and experience delays or disruptions in product deliveries and payments in connection with international manufacturing and sales that could cause
loss of revenue. Unfavorable changes in the political, regulatory, and business climate could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.



•Our international operations are subject to risks related to foreign currencies

We have significant operations outside of the United States, primarily in China and Canada and to a lesser extent India and Mexico, and
therefore, hold assets, incur liabilities, earn revenues and pay expenses in a variety of currencies other than the U. S. dollar. The financial statements of our foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars. As a result, we are subject to
risks associated with operating in foreign countries, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates and interest rates, imposition or increase in withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by foreign subsidiaries, labor
relations problems, hyperinflation in some foreign countries and imposition or increase of investments or other restrictions by foreign governments or the imposition of environmental or employment laws. Furthermore, we typically price our products
in our foreign operations in local currencies. As a result, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the local currencies of profitable foreign subsidiaries can have a negative effect on our profitability. In addition to currency
translation risks, we incur a currency transaction risk whenever one of our operating subsidiaries enters into either a purchase or sale transaction using a currency different from the operating subsidiaries functional currency. The above mentioned
risks in North America and Asia may hurt our ability to generate revenue and profits in those regions in the future.



•We are subject to regulation of our international operations that could adversely affect our business and results of operations

Due to our global operations, we are subject to many laws governing international relations, including
those that prohibit improper payments to government officials and restrict where we can do business, what information or products we can supply to certain countries and what information we can provide to a non–U.S. government, including but not
limited to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.S. Export Administration Act. Violations of these laws, which are complex, may result in criminal penalties or sanctions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition and results of operations.



•Our operations could be adversely impacted by material price volatility and supplier concentration

The market prices for certain raw materials we purchase, primarily steel, have been very volatile in the recent past. While our company
periodically enters into supply contracts to fix the cost of certain raw material purchases, significant increases in the cost of any of the key materials we purchase could increase our cost of doing business and ultimately could lead to lower
operating earnings if we are not able to recover these cost increases through price increases to our customers. Historically, there has been a lag in any customer recovery of increased material costs which could negatively impact our profitability.
In addition, in some cases we are dependent on a limited number of suppliers for some of the raw materials and components required in the manufacture of our product. A significant disruption or termination of the supply from one of these suppliers
could delay sales or increase cost which could result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.







•Our business may be adversely impacted by product defects

Product defects can occur through our own product development and design and manufacturing processes or through our reliance on third
parties for component design and manufacturing activities. We may incur various expenses related to product defects, including product warranty costs, product recall and retrofit costs and product liability costs. While we maintain a reserve for our
product warranty costs based on certain estimates and our knowledge of current events and actions, our actual warranty costs may exceed our reserve, resulting in a need to increase our accruals for warranty charges. In addition, the reputation of
our brand may be diminished by product defects and recalls. Further, our inability to cure a product defect could result in the failure of a product line or the temporary or permanent withdrawal from a product or market. Any of these events may have
a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.



•Our underfunded pension plans require future pension contributions which could limit our flexibility in managing our company



•We have significant goodwill and an impairment of our goodwill could cause a decline in our net worth

Our total assets include significant goodwill. The goodwill results from our acquisitions, representing the excess of the purchase price
we paid over the fair value of the tangible and intangible assets we acquired. We assess whether there has been impairment in the value of our goodwill during the fourth quarter of each calendar year or sooner if triggering events warrant. If future
operating performance at our business does not meet expectations, we may be required to reflect, under current applicable accounting rules, a non-cash charge to operating results for goodwill impairment. The recognition of an impairment of a
significant portion of goodwill would negatively affect our results of operations and total capitalization, the effect of which could be material. A significant reduction in our stockholders’ equity due to an impairment of goodwill may affect
our ability to maintain the required debt-to-capital ratio existing under our debt arrangements. We have identified the valuation of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets as a critical accounting policy. See “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting Policies—Goodwill and Indefinite-lived Intangible Assets” included in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



•We purchased a water treatment company in late 2009 and we may encounter additional integration or operational difficulties

We purchased 80 percent of the water treatment business of Tianlong Holding Co., Ltd. of Hong Kong in
November 2009, and purchased the remaining 20 percent in the fourth quarter of 2010. We are operating the business as A. O. Smith (Shanghai) Water Treatment Products Co., Ltd. The successful integration of the acquisition will require substantial
attention from our management and the management of the acquired business, which could decrease the time management has to serve and attract customers. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to successfully integrate this acquisition, that
this acquisition will operate profitably or that it will be able to achieve the financial or operational success we expect from the acquisition. The progress of our water treatment business has been slower than anticipated due to a number of
unforeseen challenges, and we incurred a small loss in 2010. Our financial condition, cash flows and operational results could be adversely affected if we do not successfully integrate the acquired business or if our other businesses suffer on
account of the increased focus on the acquired business.







•A substantial contribution to our financial results has come through acquisitions and we intend to grow by acquisitions using a portion of the
cash proceeds from the expected sale of the Electrical Products business, and we may not be able to identify or complete future acquisitions, which could adversely affect our future growth

Acquisitions we have made since 2001 have had a significant impact on our results of operations. While we will continue to evaluate
potential acquisitions and we intend to use a portion of the cash proceeds from the expected sale of the Electrical Products business, we may not be able to identify and successfully negotiate suitable acquisitions, obtain financing for future
acquisitions on satisfactory terms, utilize cash flow from operations, obtain regulatory approval for certain acquisitions, or otherwise complete acquisitions in the future. If we complete any future acquisitions, then we may not be able to
successfully integrate the acquired businesses or operate them profitably or accomplish our strategic objectives for those acquisitions. Our level of indebtedness may increase in the future if we finance acquisitions with debt, which would cause us
to incur additional interest expense and could increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions and limit our ability to service our debt or obtain additional financing. We cannot assure you that future acquisitions
will not have a material adverse affect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.



•Our results of operations may be negatively impacted by product liability lawsuits and claims

Our water heater products expose us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture, sale and use of
our products. While we currently maintain what we believe to be suitable product liability insurance, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain this insurance on acceptable terms, that this insurance will provide adequate protection
against potential liabilities or that our insurance providers will successfully weather the current economic downturn. In addition, we self-insure a portion of product liability claims. A series of successful claims against us could materially and
adversely affect our reputation and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.



•Changes in regulations or standards could adversely affect our business

Our products are subject to a wide variety of statutory, regulatory and industry standards and requirements. These include energy
efficiency, climate emissions, labeling and safety-related requirements. While we believe our products are currently some of the most efficient, safest, and environment-friendly products available, a significant change to these regulatory
requirements, whether federal, state or local, or otherwise to industry standards could substantially increase manufacturing costs, impact the size and timing of demand for our products, or put us at a competitive disadvantage, any of which could
harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.



•If we are unable to develop product innovations and improve our technology and expertise, we could lose customers or market share

Our success may depend on our ability to adapt to technological changes in the water heating and water
treatment industry. If we are unable to timely develop and introduce new products, or enhance existing products, in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements or demands, our competitiveness could be materially and adversely
affected.



•Certain members of the founding family of our company and trusts for their benefit have the ability to influence all matters requiring
stockholder approval



We have two classes of common equity: our Common Stock and our Class A Common Stock. The holders of Common Stock currently are entitled, as a class, to elect only one-third of our board of directors. The holders of Class A Common Stock are entitled, as a class, to elect the remaining directors. Certain members of the founding family of our company and trusts for their benefit (Smith Family) have entered into a voting trust agreement with respect to shares of our Class A Common Stock and shares of our Common Stock they own. As of December 31, 2010, these members of the Smith Family own approximately 56.33 percent of the total voting power of our outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock and Common Stock, taken together as a single class, and approximately 84.38 percent of the voting power of the outstanding shares of our Class A Common Stock, as a separate class. Due to the differences in the voting rights between shares of our Common Stock and shares of our Class A Common Stock, the Smith Family is in a position to control to a large extent the outcome of matters requiring a stockholder vote, including the adoption of amendments to our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or approval of transactions involving a change of control. This ownership position may increase if other members of the Smith Family enter into the voting trust agreement, and the voting power relating to this ownership position may increase if shares of our Class A Common Stock held by stockholders who are not parties to the voting trust agreement are converted into shares of our Common Stock. The voting trust agreement provides that in the event one of the parties to the voting trust agreement wants to withdraw from the trust or transfer any of its shares of our Class A Common Stock, such shares of our Class A Common Stock are automatically exchanged for shares of our Common Stock held by the trust to the extent available in the trust. In addition, the trust will have the right to purchase the shares of our Class A Common Stock and our Common Stock proposed to be withdrawn or transferred from the trust. As a result, the Smith Family members that are parties to the voting trust agreement have the ability to maintain their collective voting rights in our company even if certain members of the Smith Family decide to transfer their shares.



