Item 1.Business.

For financial information and other information about the Company’s segments,
see Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” below.

All product or service marks appearing in type form different from that of the surrounding text are trademarks or service marks owned,
licensed to, promoted or distributed by Merck, its subsidiaries or affiliates, except as noted. All other trademarks or services marks are those of their respective owners.

Overview

Merck continued to execute on its strategic priorities during
2012 despite facing several business challenges, including the August U.S. patent expiration forSingulair(montelukast), a medicine indicated for the chronic treatment of asthma and the relief of symptoms of allergic rhinitis. Worldwide
sales were $47.3 billion in 2012, a decline of 2% compared with 2011, including a 3% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange. Excluding the impact of foreign exchange, sales increased 1% reflecting growth of key products and within key geographic
regions which offset the impact of the U.S.Singulairpatent expiration. The Company also reduced operating expenses by efficiently managing costs through targeted reductions. In addition, the Company generated new clinical data and advanced
certain key research and development pipeline programs.

The Company’s four-part growth strategy is focused on; one,
executing on its core business, which includes its largest markets, its core brands, new launch brands, and research and development efforts targeted at therapeutic areas with the greatest future patient demand and scientific opportunity; two,
expanding geographically into high-growth markets; three, extending into complementary businesses of consumer care and animal health; and four, effectively managing costs while continuing to invest for future growth.

Beginning with the Company’s sales performance in its largest markets during 2012, despite the adverse effects of the U.S.Singulairpatent expiry which caused a significant and rapid decline in U.S.Singulairsales, sales in the United States were relatively flat compared to the prior year reflecting strong growth of key brands includingJanuvia(sitagliptin) andJanumet(sitagliptin/metformin HCI), treatments for type 2 diabetes,Zostavax(Zoster Vaccine Live), a vaccine to help prevent shingles (herpes zoster),Gardasil(Human Papillomavirus Quadrivalent [Types 6, 11,
16 and 18] Vaccine, Recombinant), a vaccine to help prevent certain diseases caused by four types of human papillomavirus (“HPV”),Victrelis(boceprevir), a treatment for chronic hepatitis C, andIsentress(raltegravir), an
antiretroviral therapy for use in combination therapy for the treatment of HIV-1 infection. Turning to Europe and Canada, the Company continues to experience positive volume growth trends for many of its key







brands, includingVictrelis, Januvia,Janumet, andSimponi(golimumab), a treatment for inflammatory diseases; however, this growth only partially offset increased generic
erosion and the price declines stemming from the economic issues and related fiscal austerity measures in this region.

With
respect to research and development efforts, the Company continued the advancement of drug candidates through its pipeline in 2012. The Company currently has three candidates under review with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the
“FDA”): MK-4305, suvorexant, an investigational treatment for insomnia; MK-8616, sugammadex sodium injection, a medication for the reversal of certain muscle relaxants used during surgery; and MK-0653C,an investigational
combination of ezetimibe and atorvastatin for the treatment of primary or mixed hyperlipidemia. MK-8109, vintafolide, an investigational cancer candidate, is under review in the European Union (the “EU”). In addition, the Company currently
has 16 candidates in Phase III development and anticipates filing a New Drug Application (“NDA”) or a Biologics License Application (“BLA”), as applicable, with the FDA with respect to several of these candidates in 2013.

In December 2012, the Company announced the HPS2-THRIVE (Heart Protection Study 2-Treatment of HDL to Reduce the Incidence of
Vascular Events) study ofTredaptive(extended-release niacin/laropipant) did not meet its primary endpoint. As a result, the Company does not plan to seek regulatory approval for the medicine in the United States. In January 2013, Merck
began taking steps to suspend the availability ofTredaptiveoutside the United States. Also, on February 1, 2013, the Company announced that it had recently received and was reviewing safety and efficacy data from a Phase III study
involving MK-0822, odanacatib, the Company’s investigational treatment for osteoporosis in post-menopausal women. As a result of its review of this data, the Company concluded that review of additional data from the previously planned, ongoing
extension study was warranted and that filing an application for approval with the FDA should be delayed. As previously announced, the Company is conducting a blinded extension of the trial in approximately 8,200 women, which will provide additional
safety and efficacy data. Merck now anticipates that it will file applications for approval of odanacatib in 2014 with additional data from the extension trial. The Company continues to believe that odanacatib will have the potential to address
unmet medical needs in patients with osteoporosis.

Merck continues to pursue opportunities for establishing external alliances
to complement its substantial internal research capabilities, including research collaborations, as well as licensing preclinical and clinical compounds and technology platforms that have the potential to drive both near- and long-term growth.
During 2012, the Company completed a variety of transactions spanning different therapeutic areas and clinical stages including licensing agreements with Endocyte, Inc. (“Endocyte”) for vintafolide (MK-8109), an investigational cancer
candidate, and with AiCuris for a portfolio of investigational medicines targeting human cytomegalovirus, including letermovir (MK-8228).

Consistent with the second element of the Company’s strategy to expand geographically in high-growth markets such as Japan and key emerging markets, the Company continued to invest in these markets
in 2012. Emerging market sales grew 4% in 2012, including a 4% unfavorable impact of foreign exchange, despite the loss of sales fromRemicade(infliximab) andSimponi, treatments for inflammatory diseases, in markets relinquished to
Johnson & Johnson (“J&J”) as part of the arbitration settlement agreement in 2011 as discussed below. China continues to be an important growth driver with sales exceeding $1.0 billion in 2012, representing growth of 25% over
the prior year, including a 3% favorable effect from foreign exchange. Growth in Japan was 6% during 2012, tempered by generic competition and the biennial price cuts early in the year. Merck has entered into several transactions designed to
strengthen its presence in the emerging markets in the longer term. The Company’s joint venture with Simcere Pharmaceutical Group in China began preliminary operations in late-2012.

The third component of Merck’s strategy relates to the complementary businesses of Consumer Care and Animal Health. Merck’s
Animal Health business continues as a solid contributor with 4% revenue growth in 2012, including a 5% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange, reflecting growth in the cattle, poultry, companion animal and swine product lines. Sales of Consumer
Care products grew 6% in 2012, including a 1% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange, led by theDr. Scholl’sfranchise and higher sales ofCoppertone,MiraLAXandClaritin.

As noted, the last element of the Company’s strategy is to tightly manage costs while also investing for growth. Consistent with
these efforts, Merck remains committed to driving continuous productivity improvements across the enterprise and continues to realize cost savings across all areas of the Company. These savings result







from various actions, including the Merger Restructuring Program discussed below, previously announced ongoing cost reduction activities, as well as from non-restructuring-related activities. As
of the end of 2012, the Company had achieved its projected $3.5 billion in annual net cost savings from these activities since the merger with Schering-Plough Corporation (“Schering-Plough”) (the “Merger”).

Materials and production

Marketing and administrative

Research
and development

Restructuring costs

In November 2012, Merck’s Board of Directors raised the Company’s quarterly dividend to $0.43 per share from $0.42
per share.

In February 2013, Merck reached an agreement in principle with plaintiffs to resolve two federal securities
class-action lawsuits pending in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey against Merck, Schering-Plough and certain of their current and former officers and directors (the “ENHANCE Litigation”). Under the proposed agreement,
Merck will pay $215 million to resolve the securities class action against all of the Merck defendants and $473 million to resolve the securities class action against all of the Schering-Plough defendants. In connection with the settlement, Merck
recorded a pretax and after-tax charge of $493 million in 2012 which reflects $195 million of anticipated insurance recoveries.

Earnings per common share assuming dilution attributable to common shareholders (“EPS”) for 2012 were $2.00, which reflect a net
unfavorable impact resulting from acquisition-related costs and restructuring costs, as well as the charge related to the ENHANCE Litigation noted above. Non-GAAP EPS in 2012 were $3.82 excluding these items (see “Non-GAAP Income and
Non-GAAP EPS” below).







Product Sales

Sales of the Company’s products were as follows:



($ in millions)201220112010Primary Care and Women’s HealthCardiovascularZetia$2,567$2,428$2,297Vytorin1,7471,8822,014Diabetes and ObesityJanuvia4,0863,3242,385Janumet1,6591,363954RespiratorySingulair3,8535,4794,987Nasonex1,2681,2861,219Clarinex393621623Dulera207968Asmanex185206208Women’s Health and EndocrineFosamax676855926NuvaRing623623559Follistim AQ468530528Implanon348294236Cerazette271268209OtherMaxalt638639550Arcoxia453431398Avelox201322316Hospital and SpecialtyImmunologyRemicade2,0762,6672,714Simponi33126497Infectious DiseaseIsentress1,5151,3591,090PegIntron653657737Cancidas619640611Victrelis502140—Invanz445406362Primaxin384515610Noxafil258230198OncologyTemodar9179351,065Emend489419378OtherCosopt/Trusopt444477484Bridion261201103Integrilin211230266Diversified BrandsCozaar/Hyzaar1,2841,6632,104Propecia424447447Zocor383456468Claritin Rx244314296Remeron232241223Proscar217223216Vasotec/Vaseretic192231255Vaccines(1)Gardasil1,6311,209988ProQuad/M-M-R II/Varivax1,2731,2021,378Zostavax651332243RotaTeq601651519Pneumovax580498376Other
pharmaceutical(2)4,1414,0354,622Total Pharmaceutical segment sales40,60141,28939,267Other segment
sales(3)6,4126,4286,159Total segment sales47,01347,71745,426Other(4)254330561$47,267$48,047$45,987



(1)These amounts do not reflect sales of vaccines sold in most major European markets through the Company’s joint venture, Sanofi Pasteur MSD, the
results of which are reflected inEquity income from affiliates. These amounts do, however, reflect supply sales to Sanofi Pasteur MSD.



(2)Other pharmaceutical primarily reflects sales of other human health pharmaceutical products, including products within the franchises not listed
separately.



(3)Reflects the non-reportable segments of Animal Health, Consumer Care and Alliances. The Alliances segment includes revenue from the Company
relationship with AZLP.



(4)Other revenues are primarily comprised of miscellaneous corporate revenues, third-party manufacturing sales, sales related to divested products or
businesses and other supply sales not included in segment results.







Pharmaceutical

The Company’s pharmaceutical products include therapeutic and preventive agents, generally sold by prescription, for the treatment of human disorders. Certain of the products within the
Company’s franchises are as follows:

Primary Care and Women’s Health

Cardiovascular:Zetia(marketed asEzetroloutside the United States); andVytorin(ezetimibe/simvastatin) (marketed asInegyoutside the United States), cholesterol modifying medicines.

Diabetes and
Obesity:JanuviaandJanumetfor the treatment of type 2 diabetes.

Respiratory:Singulair;Nasonex(mometasone furoate monohydrate), an inhaled nasal
corticosteroid for the treatment of nasal allergy symptoms;Clarinex(desloratadine), a non-sedating antihistamine;DuleraInhalation Aerosol (mometasone furoate/formoterol fumarate dihydrate), a combination medicine for the treatment
of asthma; andAsmanex Twisthaler(mometasone furoate inhalation powder), an inhaled corticosteroid for first-line maintenance treatment of asthma in patients 4 years of age and older.

Women’s Health and Endocrine:Fosamax(alendronate sodium) for the treatment and prevention of
osteoporosis; NuvaRing(etonogestrel/ethinyl estradiol vaginal ring), a vaginal contraceptive ring; Follistim AQ(follitropin beta injection), a biological fertility treatment;Implanon(etonogestrel implant), a single-rod
subdermal contraceptive implant; andCerazette(desogestrel), a progestin only oral contraceptive.

Other:Maxalt(rizatriptan benzoate),a product for acute treatment of migraine;Arcoxia(etoricoxib) for the treatment of arthritis and pain; andAvelox(moxifloxacin), which the Company only markets in the United States, a broad-spectrum fluoroquinolone antibiotic for the treatment of certain respiratory and skin
infections.

Hospital and Specialty

Immunology:RemicadeandSimponifor the treatment of inflammatory diseases.

Infectious Disease:Isentress;PegIntron(peginterferon alpha-2b), a treatment for chronic hepatitis C;Cancidas(caspofungin acetate), an anti-fungal product;Victrelis;Invanz(ertapenem sodium) for the treatment of certain infections;Primaxin(imipenem and cilastatin sodium), an anti-bacterial product; andNoxafil(posaconazole) for the prevention of invasive fungal
infections.

Oncology:Temodar(temozolomide) (marketed asTemodaloutside the United
States), a treatment for certain types of brain tumors; andEmend(aprepitant) for the prevention of chemotherapy-induced and post-operative nausea and vomiting.

Other:Cosopt(dorzolamide hydrochloride-timolol maleate ophthalmic solution) andTrusopt(dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution), ophthalmic products;Bridion(sugammadex sodium injection), a medication for the reversal of certain muscle relaxants used during surgery; and Integrilin (eptifibatide), a treatment for patients with acute coronary syndrome.

Diversified Brands

Cozaar(losartan potassium) andHyzaar(losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide), treatments for hypertension;Propecia(finasteride), a product for the treatment of male pattern hair loss;Zocor(simvastatin), a statin for modifying cholesterol;Claritin Rx(loratadine) for treatment of seasonal outdoor allergies and year-round indoor
allergies; Remeron(mirtazapine), an antidepressant;Proscar(finasteride), a urology product for the treatment of symptomatic benign prostate enlargement; andVasotec(enalapril maleate) andVaseretic(enalapril
maleate-hydrochlorothiazide),hypertension and/or heart failure products.

Vaccines

Gardasil;    ProQuad(Measles, Mumps, Rubella and Varicella Virus Vaccine Live), a pediatric combination
vaccine to help protect against measles, mumps, rubella and varicella;M-M-RII (Measles, Mumps and Rubella Virus Vaccine Live), a vaccine to help prevent measles, mumps and rubella;Varivax(Varicella Virus Vaccine Live), a vaccine to
help prevent chickenpox (varicella);Zostavax; RotaTeq(Rotavirus Vaccine, Live Oral, Pentavalent), a vaccine to help protect against rotavirus gastroenteritis in infants and children; andPneumovax(pneumococcal vaccine polyvalent), a
vaccine to help prevent pneumococcal disease.







Animal Health

The Animal Health segment discovers, develops, manufactures and markets animal health products, including vaccines. Principal marketed products in this segment include:

Livestock Products:Nuflorantibiotic range for use in cattle and swine;Bovilis/Vistavaccine
lines for infectious diseases in cattle;Banaminebovine and swine anti-inflammatory;Estrumatefor the treatment of fertility disorders in cattle;Regumate/Matrixfertility management for swine and horses;Resflorcombination broad-spectrum antibiotic and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug for bovine respiratory disease;Zuprevofor bovine respiratory disease;ZilmaxandRevalorto improve production efficiencies in beef cattle;M+Pacswine pneumonia vaccine; andPorcilisvaccine line for infectious diseases in swine.

Poultry
Products:Nobilis/Innovax,vaccine lines for poultry; andParacoxandCoccivaccoccidiosis vaccines.

Companion Animal Products:Nobivac/Continuumvaccine lines for flexible dog and cat vaccination;Otomax/Mometamax/Posatexear ointments for acute
and chronic otitis;Caninsulin/Vetsulindiabetes mellitus treatment for dogs and cats;Panacur/Safeguardbroad-spectrum anthelmintic (de-wormer) for use in many animals; andActivyl/Scalibor/Exspotfor protecting
against bites from fleas, ticks, mosquitoes and sandflies.

Aquaculture Products:Sliceparasiticide for sea lice in salmon;Aquavac/Norvaxvaccines against bacterial and viral disease in fish;Compact PDvaccine for salmon; andAquaflorantibiotic for farm-raised fish.

Consumer Care

The
Consumer Care segment develops, manufactures and markets over-the-counter, foot care and sun care products. Principal products in this segment include:

Over-the-Counter Products:Claritinnon-drowsy antihistamines;MiraLAXfor relief of occasional constipation;Coricidin HBPdecongestant-free cold/flu medicine
for people with high blood pressure;Afrinnasal decongestant spray; andZegerid OTCtreatment for frequent heartburn.

Foot Care:Dr. Scholl’sfoot care products;Lotrimintopical antifungal products; andTinactintopical antifungal products and foot and sneaker
odor/wetness products.

Sun Care:Coppertonesun care lotions, sprays and dry oils.

For a further discussion of sales of the Company’s products, see Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations” below.

Product Approvals

In February 2012, the FDA approvedZioptan(tafluprost), a preservative-free prostaglandin analog ophthalmic solution for reducing
elevated intraocular pressure in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension. Merck has exclusive commercial rights to tafluprost in Western Europe (excluding Germany), North America, South America, Africa, the Middle East, India and
Australia.Zioptanis marketed asSaflutanin certain markets outside the United States. Also, in February 2012, the FDA approvedJanumet XR, a new treatment for type 2 diabetes that combines sitagliptin, which is the active
component ofJanuvia, with extended-release metformin.Janumet XRprovides a convenient once-daily treatment option for health care providers and patients who need help to control their blood sugar. In addition, in February 2012, the
FDA approvedCosopt PF, Merck’s preservative-free formulation ofCosoptophthalmic solution, indicated for the reduction of elevated intraocular pressure in appropriate patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension.

Joint Ventures

AstraZeneca LP

In 1982,
Merck entered into an agreement with Astra AB (“Astra”) to develop and market Astra products in the United States. In 1994, Merck and Astra formed an equally owned joint venture that developed and marketed most of Astra’s new
prescription medicines in the United States including Prilosec (omeprazole), the first in a class of medications known as proton pump inhibitors, which slows the production of acid from the cells of the stomach lining.







In 1998, Merck and Astra restructured the joint venture whereby Merck acquired Astra’s
interest in the joint venture, renamed KBI Inc. (“KBI”), and contributed KBI’s operating assets to a new U.S. limited partnership named Astra Pharmaceuticals, L.P. (the “Partnership”), in exchange for a 1% limited partner
interest. Astra contributed the net assets of its wholly owned subsidiary, Astra USA, Inc., to the Partnership in exchange for a 99% general partner interest. The Partnership, renamed AstraZeneca LP (“AZLP”) upon Astra’s 1999 merger
with Zeneca Group Plc, became the exclusive distributor of the products for which KBI retained rights.

The Company earns
certain Partnership returns as well as ongoing revenue based on sales of current and future KBI products. The Partnership returns include a priority return provided for in the Partnership Agreement, a preferential return representing the
Company’s share of undistributed Partnership AZLP generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) earnings, and a variable return related to the Company’s 1% limited partner interest.

Other (income) expense, net

Sanofi Pasteur MSD

In 1994, Merck and Pasteur Mérieux Connaught (now Sanofi Pasteur S.A.) formed a joint venture to market human
vaccines in Europe and to collaborate in the development of combination vaccines for distribution in the then-existing EU and the European Free Trade Association. Merck and Sanofi Pasteur contributed, among other things, their European vaccine
businesses for equal shares in the joint venture, known as Pasteur Mérieux MSD, S.N.C. (now Sanofi Pasteur MSD, S.N.C.). The joint venture maintains a presence, directly or through affiliates or branches, in Belgium, Italy, Germany, Spain,
France, Austria, Ireland, Sweden, Portugal, the Netherlands, Switzerland and the United Kingdom and through distributors in the rest of its territory.

Licenses

In 1998, a subsidiary of Schering-Plough entered into a licensing
agreement with Centocor Ortho Biotech Inc. (“Centocor”), a J&J company, to marketRemicade, which is prescribed for the treatment of inflammatory diseases. In 2005, Schering-Plough’s subsidiary exercised an option under its
contract with Centocor for license rights to develop and commercializeSimponi, a fully human monoclonal antibody. The Company had exclusive marketing rights to both products outside the United States, Japan and certain other Asian markets.
In December 2007, Schering-Plough and Centocor revised their distribution agreement regarding the development, commercialization and distribution of bothRemicadeandSimponi, extending the Company’s rights to exclusively marketRemicadeto match the duration of the Company’s exclusive marketing rights forSimponi. In addition,







Schering-Plough and Centocor agreed to share certain development costs relating toSimponi’s auto-injector delivery system. On October 6, 2009, the European Commission
(“EC”) approvedSimponias a treatment for rheumatoid arthritis and other immune system disorders in two presentations — a novel auto-injector and a prefilled syringe. As a result, the Company’s marketing rights for both
products extend for 15 years from the first commercial sale ofSimponiin the EU following the receipt of pricing and reimbursement approval within the EU.

In April 2011, Merck and J&J reached an agreement to amend the agreement governing the distribution rights toRemicadeandSimponi. Under the terms of the amended distribution agreement,
Merck relinquished marketing rights forRemicadeandSimponito J&J in territories including Canada, Central and South America, the Middle East, Africa and Asia Pacific effective July 1, 2011. Merck retained exclusive
marketing rights throughout Europe, Russia and Turkey (the “Retained Territories”). In addition, beginning July 1, 2011, all profits derived from Merck’s exclusive distribution of the two products in the Retained Territories are
being equally divided between Merck and J&J. J&J also received a one-time payment from Merck of $500 million in April 2011.

Competition and the Health Care Environment

Competition

The markets in which the Company conducts its business and the
pharmaceutical industry are highly competitive and highly regulated. The Company’s competitors include other worldwide research-based pharmaceutical companies, smaller research companies with more limited therapeutic focus, and generic drug and
consumer health care manufacturers. The Company’s operations may be affected by technological advances of competitors, industry consolidation, patents granted to competitors, competitive combination products, new products of competitors, the
generic availability of competitors’ branded products, new information from clinical trials of marketed products or post-marketing surveillance and generic competition as the Company’s products mature. In addition, patent positions are
increasingly being challenged by competitors, and the outcome can be highly uncertain. An adverse result in a patent dispute can preclude commercialization of products or negatively affect sales of existing products and could result in the
recognition of an impairment charge with respect to certain products. Competitive pressures have intensified as pressures in the industry have grown. The effect on operations of competitive factors and patent disputes cannot be predicted.

Pharmaceutical competition involves a rigorous search for technological innovations and the ability to market these
innovations effectively. With its long-standing emphasis on research and development, the Company is well positioned to compete in the search for technological innovations. Additional resources required to meet market challenges include quality
control, flexibility to meet customer specifications, an efficient distribution system and a strong technical information service. The Company is active in acquiring and marketing products through external alliances, such as joint ventures and
licenses, and has been refining its sales and marketing efforts to further address changing industry conditions. However, the introduction of new products and processes by competitors may result in price reductions and product displacements, even
for products protected by patents. For example, the number of compounds available to treat a particular disease typically increases over time and can result in slowed sales growth for the Company’s products in that therapeutic category.

The highly competitive animal health business is affected by several factors including regulatory and legislative issues,
scientific and technological advances, product innovation, the quality and price of the Company’s products, effective promotional efforts and the frequent introduction of generic products by competitors.

The Company’s consumer care operations face competition from other consumer health care businesses as well as retailers who carry
their own private label brands. The Company’s competitive position is affected by several factors, including regulatory and legislative issues, scientific and technological advances, the quality and price of the Company’s products,
promotional efforts and the growth of lower cost private label brands.

Health Care Environment

Global efforts toward health care cost containment continue to exert pressure on product pricing and market access. In the United States,
federal and state governments for many years also have pursued methods to reduce the cost of drugs and vaccines for which they pay. For example, federal laws require the Company to pay specified rebates for medicines reimbursed by Medicaid and to
provide discounts for outpatient medicines purchased by certain Public Health Service entities and hospitals serving a disproportionate share of low income or uninsured patients.







Marketing and administrative

The Company also faces increasing pricing pressure globally from managed care organizations, government agencies and programs that could
negatively affect the Company’s sales and profit margins. In the United States, these include (i) practices of managed care groups and institutional and governmental purchasers, and (ii) U.S. federal laws and regulations related to
Medicare and Medicaid, including the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 and the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010. Changes to the health care system enacted as part of health care reform in the
United States, as well as increased purchasing power of entities that negotiate on behalf of Medicare, Medicaid, and private sector beneficiaries, could result in further pricing pressures.

In addition, in the effort to contain the U.S. federal deficit, the pharmaceutical industry could be considered a potential source of
savings via legislative proposals that have been debated but not enacted. These types of revenue generating or cost saving proposals include additional direct price controls in the Medicare prescription drug program (Part D). In addition, Congress
may again consider proposals to allow, under certain conditions, the importation of medicines from other countries. It remains very uncertain as to what proposals, if any, may be included as part of future federal budget deficit reduction proposals
that would directly or indirectly affect the Company.

Efforts toward health care cost containment remain intense in several
European countries. Many countries have announced austerity measures, which include the implementation of pricing actions to reduce prices of generic and patented drugs and mandatory switches to generic drugs. While the Company is taking steps to
mitigate the impact in the EU, the austerity measures continued to negatively affect the Company’s revenue performance in 2012 and the Company anticipates the austerity measures will continue to negatively affect revenue performance in 2013.

Additionally, the global economic downturn and the sovereign debt issues in certain European countries, among other factors,
have adversely affected foreign receivables in certain European countries. While the Company continues to receive payment on these receivables, these conditions have resulted in an increase in the average length of time it takes to collect accounts
receivable outstanding thereby adversely affecting cash flows.

Governments in many emerging markets are also focused on
constraining health care costs and have enacted price controls and related measures that aim to put pressure on the price of pharmaceuticals and constrain market access. The Company anticipates that pricing pressures and market access challenges
will continue in 2013 to varying degrees in the emerging markets.

The Company’s focus on and share of revenue from
emerging markets has increased. Countries in these markets may be subject to conditions that can affect the Company’s efforts to continue to grow in emerging markets, including potential political instability, significant currency fluctuation
and controls, financial crises, limited or changing availability of funding for health care, and other developments that may adversely impact the business environment for the Company. Further, the Company may engage third-party agents to assist in
operating in emerging market countries, which may affect its ability to realize continued growth and may also increase the Company’s risk exposure.







The full impact of health care reform, as well as continuing budget pressures on governments
around the world, cannot be predicted at this time.

In addressing cost containment pressures, the Company engages in public
policy advocacy with policymakers and continues to attempt to demonstrate that its medicines provide value to patients and to those who pay for health care. The Company seeks to work with government policymakers to encourage a long-term approach to
sustainable health care financing that ensures access to innovative medicines and does not disproportionately target pharmaceuticals as a source of budget savings. In markets with historically low rates of government health care spending, the
Company encourages those governments to increase their investments in order to improve their citizens’ access to appropriate health care, including medicines.

Certain markets outside of the United States have implemented health technology assessments and other cost management strategies which require additional data, reviews and administrative processes, all of
which increase the complexity and costs of obtaining product reimbursement and exert downward pressure on reimbursement available and obtained.

Operating conditions have become more challenging under the global pressures of competition, industry regulation and cost containment efforts. Although no one can predict the effect of these and other
factors on the Company’s business, the Company continually takes measures to evaluate, adapt and improve the organization and its business practices to better meet customer needs and believes that it is well positioned to respond to the
evolving health care environment and market forces.

Government Regulation

The pharmaceutical industry is subject to regulation by regional, country, state and local agencies around the world. Governmental
regulation and legislation tend to focus on standards and processes for determining drug safety and effectiveness, as well as conditions for sale or reimbursement, especially related to the pricing of products.

Of particular importance is the FDA in the United States, which administers requirements covering the testing, approval, safety,
effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling, and marketing of prescription pharmaceuticals. In many cases, the FDA requirements and practices have increased the amount of time and resources necessary to develop new products and bring them to market in
the United States.

The EU has adopted directives and other legislation concerning the classification, labeling, advertising,
wholesale distribution, integrity of the supply chain, enhanced pharmacovigilance monitoring and approval for marketing of medicinal products for human use. These provide mandatory standards throughout the EU, which may be supplemented or
implemented with additional regulations by the EU member states. The Company’s policies and procedures are already consistent with the substance of these directives; consequently, it is believed that they will not have any material effect on
the Company’s business.

The Company believes that it will continue to be able to conduct its operations, including
launching new drugs, in this regulatory environment.

Access to Medicines

As a global health care company, Merck’s primary role is to discover and develop innovative medicines and vaccines. The Company also
recognizes that it has an important role to play in helping to improve access to its products around the world. The Company’s efforts in this regard are wide-ranging and include a set of principles that the Company strives to embed into its
operations and business strategies to guide the Company’s worldwide approach to expanding access to health care. For example, the Company has been recognized for pricing many of its products through a differential pricing framework, taking into
consideration such factors as a country’s level of economic development and public health need. In addition, the Merck Patient Assistance Program provides medicines and adult vaccines for free to people in the United States who do not have
prescription drug or health insurance coverage and who, without the Company’s assistance, cannot afford their Merck medicine and vaccines.

Building on the Company’s own efforts, Merck has undertaken collaborations with many stakeholders to improve access to medicines and enhance the quality of life for people around the world.







For example, in 2011, Merck announced that it would launch “Merck for Mothers,” a
long-term effort with global health partners to create a world where no woman has to die from preventable complications of pregnancy and childbirth. The launch includes a 10-year, $500 million initiative that applies Merck’s scientific and
business expertise to making proven solutions more widely available, developing new technologies and improving public awareness, policy efforts and private sector engagement to reduce maternal mortality.

Merck has also in the past provided funds to the Merck Foundation, an independent organization, which has partnered with a variety of
organizations dedicated to improving global health. One of these partnerships is The African Comprehensive HIV/AIDS Partnership in Botswana, a collaboration with the government of Botswana that was renewed in 2010 and supports Botswana’s
response to HIV/AIDS through a comprehensive and sustainable approach to HIV prevention, care, treatment, and support.

Privacy and Data
Protection

The Company is subject to a number of privacy and data protection laws and regulations globally. The
legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues to evolve. There has been increased attention to privacy and data protection issues in both developed and emerging markets with the potential to affect directly the
Company’s business, including recently enacted laws and regulations in the United States, Europe, Asia and Latin America and increased enforcement activity in the United States and other developed markets.

Distribution

The
Company sells its human health pharmaceutical products primarily to drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals, government agencies and managed health care providers, such as health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit managers and other
institutions. Human health vaccines are sold primarily to physicians, wholesalers, physician distributors and government entities. The Company’s professional representatives communicate the effectiveness, safety and value of the Company’s
pharmaceutical and vaccine products to health care professionals in private practice, group practices, hospitals and managed care organizations. The Company sells its animal health products to veterinarians, distributors and animal producers. The
Company’s over-the-counter, foot care and sun care products are sold through wholesale and retail drug, food chain and mass merchandiser outlets, as well as club stores and specialty channels.

Raw Materials

Raw
materials and supplies, which are generally available from multiple sources, are purchased worldwide and are normally available in quantities adequate to meet the needs of the Company’s business.

Patents, Trademarks and Licenses

Patent protection is considered, in the aggregate, to be of material importance in the Company’s marketing of its products in the United States and in most major foreign markets. Patents may cover
productsper se, pharmaceutical formulations, processes for or intermediates useful in the manufacture of products or the uses of products. Protection for individual products extends for varying periods in accordance with the legal life of
patents in the various countries. The protection afforded, which may also vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent and its scope of coverage.

The Food and Drug Administration Modernization Act includes a Pediatric Exclusivity Provision that may provide an additional six months of market exclusivity in the United States for indications of new or
currently marketed drugs if certain agreed upon pediatric studies are completed by the applicant. Current U.S. patent law provides additional patent term under Patent Term Restoration for periods when the patented product was under regulatory review
by the FDA.







Patent portfolios developed for products introduced by the Company normally provide market
exclusivity. The Company has the following key U.S. patent protection (including Patent Term Restoration and Pediatric Exclusivity) for major marketed products:



ProductYear of Expiration (in the U.S.)(1)Propecia(2)2013 (formulation/use)Asmanex2014 (use)/2018 (formulation)Avelox(3)2014Dulera2014 (use)/2017(formulation)/2020 (combination)Integrilin2014 (compound)/2015 (use/formulation)Nasonex(4)2014 (use/formulation)/2018(formulation)Temodar(5)2014Emend2015Follistim AQ2015PegIntron2015 (conjugates)/2020 (Mature IFN-alpha)Invanz2016 (compound)/2017 (composition)Zostavax2016 (use)Zetia(6)/Vytorin2017NuvaRing2018 (delivery system)Noxafil2019RotaTeq2019Intron A2020Recombivax2020 (method of making/vectors)Saphris/Sycrest2020 (use/formulation) (with pending Patent Term Restoration)Januvia/Janumet/Juvisync/Janumet XR2022 (compound)/2026 (salt)Zioptan2022 (with pending Patent Term Restoration)Isentress2023Victrelis2024 (with pending Patent Term Restoration)Gardasil2028



(1)Compound patent unless otherwise noted. Certain of the products listed may be the subject of patent litigation. See Item 8.
“Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” Note 11. “Contingencies and Environmental Liabilities” below.



(2)By agreement, a generic manufacturer entered the U.S. market in January 2013, and another has been given the right to enter in July 2013 with a
generic version ofPropecia.



(3)By agreement, a generic manufacturer may launch a generic version ofAveloxin the United States in February 2014.



(4)By agreement, a generic manufacturer has been granted rights under Merck’sNasonexuse patent in the United States. In addition, a
recent court decision found that a proposed generic product by a generic manufacturer would not infringe on Merck’sNasonexformulation patent. Thus, if the generic manufacturer’s application is approved by the FDA, it can enter the
market in the United States with a generic version ofNasonex. That decision is under appeal.



(5)By agreement, a generic manufacturer may launch a generic version ofTemodarin the United States in August 2013.



(6)By agreement, a generic manufacturer may launch a generic version ofZetiain the United States in December 2016.

While the expiration of a product patent normally results in a loss of market exclusivity for the
covered pharmaceutical product, commercial benefits may continue to be derived from: (i) later-granted patents on processes and intermediates related to the most economical method of manufacture of the active ingredient of such product;
(ii) patents relating to the use of such product; (iii) patents relating to novel compositions and formulations; and (iv) in the United States and certain other countries, market exclusivity that may be available under relevant law.
The effect of product patent expiration on pharmaceutical products also depends upon many other factors such as the nature of the market and the position of the product in it, the growth of the market, the complexities and economics of the process
for manufacture of the active ingredient of the product and the requirements of new drug provisions of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act or similar laws and regulations in other countries.

The patent that provides U.S. market exclusivity forAveloxexpires in March 2014; however, by agreement, a generic manufacturer
may launch a generic version ofAveloxin the United States in February 2014. Also, the patent that provides market exclusivity in the United States forTemodarwill expire in February 2014; however, by agreement, a generic
manufacturer may launch a generic version ofTemodarin the United States in August 2013. The Company anticipates that sales in the United States will decline significantly after these patent expiries.







Additions to market exclusivity are sought in the United States and other countries through
all relevant laws, including laws increasing patent life. Some of the benefits of increases in patent life have been partially offset by an increase in the number of incentives for and use of generic products. Additionally, improvements in
intellectual property laws are sought in the United States and other countries through reform of patent and other relevant laws and implementation of international treaties.

The Company has the following key U.S. patent protection for drug candidates under review in the United States by the FDA. Additional patent term may be provided for these pipeline candidates based on
Patent Term Restoration and Pediatric Exclusivity.



Under ReviewCurrently AnticipatedYear of Expiration (in the U.S.)(1)(2)(3)(4)MK-0653C (ezetimibe/atorvastatin)2017MK-8616 (sugammadex sodium injection)2021MK-4305 (suvorexant)2029

The Company also has the following key U.S. patent protection for drug candidates in Phase III
development:



Phase III Drug CandidateCurrently AnticipatedYear of Expiration (in the U.S.)(1)(2)(3)(4)V212 (inactivated varicella zoster virus (“VZV”) vaccine)2016 (method of use)MK-8175A (NOMAC/E2)2017 (use)MK-8962 (corifollitropin alfa injection)2018 (formulation)V419 (pediatric hexavalent combination vaccine)2020 (method of making/vectors)MK-3814 (preladenant)2021MK-3641 (ragweed)2023MK-7243 (grass pollen)2023MK-0822 (odanacatib)2024MK-5348 (vorapaxar)2024MK-8109 (vintafolide)2024MK-0859 (anacetrapib)2027MK-3222 (psoriasis)2028 (composition)MK-3415A (actoxumab/bezlotoxumab)2028V503 (HPV vaccine (9 valent))2028MK-3102 (diabetes mellitus)2030



(1)Compound patent unless otherwise noted.



(2)Subject to any future patent term restoration of up to five years and six month pediatric market exclusivity, either or both of which may be
available.



(3)Depending on the circumstances surrounding any final regulatory approval of the compound, there may be other listed patents or patent applications
pending that could have relevance to the product as finally approved; the relevance of any such application would depend upon the claims that ultimately may be granted and the nature of the final regulatory approval of the product.



(4)Regulatory exclusivity tied to the protection of clinical data is complementary to patent protection and, in many cases, may provide more
efficacious or longer lasting marketing exclusivity than a compound’s patent estate. In the United States, the data protection generally runs 5 years from first marketing approval of a new chemical entity, extended to 7 years for an orphan drug
indication and 12 years from first marketing approval of a biological product.

For further information
with respect to the Company’s patents, see Item 1A. “Risk Factors” and Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” Note 11. “Contingencies and Environmental Liabilities” below.

Worldwide, all of the Company’s important products are sold under trademarks that are considered in the aggregate to be of material
importance. Trademark protection continues in some countries as long as used; in other countries, as long as registered. Registration is for fixed terms and can be renewed indefinitely.

Royalty income in 2012 on patent and know-how licenses and other rights amounted to $352 million. Merck also incurred royalty expenses
amounting to $1.3 billion in 2012 under patent and know-how licenses it holds.







Research and Development

The Company’s business is characterized by the introduction of new products or new uses for existing products through a strong research and development program. Approximately 13,600 people are
employed in the Company’s research activities. Research and development expenses were $8.2 billion in 2012, $8.5 billion in 2011, and $11.1 billion in 2010 (which included restructuring costs in all years, as well as $200 million, $587 million
and $2.4 billion of in-process research and development impairment charges in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively). The Company maintains its ongoing commitment to research over a broad range of therapeutic areas and clinical development in support of
new products.

The Company’s clinical pipeline includes candidates in multiple disease areas,
including atherosclerosis, cancer, cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, infectious diseases, inflammatory/autoimmune diseases, insomnia, neurodegenerative diseases, osteoporosis, respiratory diseases and women’s health.

In the development of human health products, industry practice and government regulations in the United States and most foreign countries
provide for the determination of effectiveness and safety of new chemical compounds through preclinical tests and controlled clinical evaluation. Before a new drug or vaccine may be marketed in the United States, recorded data on preclinical and
clinical experience are included in the NDA for a drug or the BLA for a vaccine or biologic submitted to the FDA for the required approval.

Vaccine development follows the same general pathway as for drugs. Preclinical testing focuses on the vaccine’s
safety and ability to elicit a protective immune response (immunogenicity). Pre-marketing vaccine clinical trials are typically done in three phases. Initial Phase I clinical studies are conducted in normal subjects to evaluate







the safety, tolerability and immunogenicity of the vaccine candidate. Phase II studies are dose-ranging studies. Finally, Phase III trials provide the necessary data on effectiveness
and safety. If successful, the Company submits regulatory filings with the appropriate regulatory agencies. Also during this stage, the proposed manufacturing facility undergoes a pre-approval inspection during which production of the vaccine as it
is in progress is examined in detail.

The primary method the Company uses to obtain marketing authorization of pharmaceutical products in the EU is through the “centralized procedure.” This procedure is compulsory for certain
pharmaceutical products, in particular those using biotechnological processes, and is also available for certain new chemical compounds and products. A company seeking to market an innovative pharmaceutical product through the centralized procedure
must file a complete set of safety data and efficacy data as part of a Marketing Authorization Application (“MAA”) with the European Medicines Agency (“EMA”). After the EMA evaluates the MAA, it provides a recommendation to the
EC and the EC then approves or denies the MAA. It is also possible for new chemical products to obtain marketing authorization in the EU through a “mutual recognition procedure,” in which an application is made to a single member state,
and if the member state approves the pharmaceutical product under a national procedure, then the applicant may submit that approval to the mutual recognition procedure of some or all other member states.

Research and Development Update

The Company currently has four candidates under regulatory review in the United States and internationally.

MK-4305, suvorexant, an investigational insomnia medicine in a new class of medicines called orexin receptor antagonists for use in patients with difficulty falling or staying asleep, is under review by
the FDA. Suvorexant will be evaluated by the Controlled Substance Staff of the FDA during NDA review. If approved by the FDA, suvorexant will become available after a schedule assessment and determination has been completed by the U.S. Drug
Enforcement Administration, which routinely occurs after FDA approval. The Company has also submitted a new drug application for suvorexant to the health authorities in Japan and is continuing with plans to seek approval for suvorexant in other
countries around the world.

MK-8616, sugammadex sodium injection, is an investigational agent for the reversal of
neuromuscular blockade induced by rocuronium or vecuronium (neuromuscular blocking agents) under review by the FDA. Neuromuscular blockade is used in anesthesiology to induce muscle relaxation during surgery. If approved, MK-8616 would be the first
in a new class of medicines in the United States known as selective relaxant binding agents to be used in the surgical setting. In 2008, the FDA did not approve the original NDA for sugammadex sodium injection, requesting additional data related to
hypersensitivity (allergic) reactions and coagulation (bleeding) events. Merck submitted these requested data within the NDA resubmission, which the FDA deemed complete for review. The Company expects the FDA’s review to be completed in the
first half of 2013. Sugammadex sodium injection is approved and has been launched in many countries outside of the United States where it is marketed asBridion.







MK-8109, vintafolide, is an investigational cancer candidate under review by the EMA. As
part of an exclusive license agreement with Endocyte, Merck is responsible for the development and worldwide commercialization of vintafolide in oncology. The EMA accepted the MAA filings for vintafolide and Endocyte’s investigational companion
diagnostic imaging agent, etarfolatide, for the targeted treatment of patients with folate-receptor positive platinum-resistant ovarian cancer in combination with pegylated liposomal doxorubicin. Both vintafolide and etarfolatide have been granted
orphan drug status by the EC. Vintafolide is in Phase III development in the United States.

MK-0653C is an investigational
combination of ezetimibe and atorvastatin for the treatment of primary or mixed hyperlipidemia under review by the FDA. An updated NDA for MK-0653C was deemed complete for review by the FDA after Merck submitted additional data in response to the
FDA’s Complete Response Letter issued in 2012. Merck expects the FDA’s review to be completed in the first half of 2013. Merck is continuing to move forward with planned filings for the ezetimibe and atorvastatin combination tablet in
additional countries around the world.

In addition to the candidates under regulatory review, the Company has 16 drug
candidates in Phase III development targeting a broad range of diseases. The Company anticipates filing an NDA or a BLA, as applicable, with the FDA with respect to several of these candidates in 2013.

V503 is a nine-valent HPV vaccine in development to help protect against certain HPV-related diseases. V503 incorporates antigens against
five additional cancer-causing HPV types as compared withGardasil. As previously disclosed, the 14,000-patient Phase III event-driven clinical study of V503 is ongoing. Merck anticipates filing a BLA for V503 with the FDA in 2013.

MK-8962, corifollitropin alpha injection, which is being marketed asElonvain the EU, is an investigational fertility
treatment for controlled ovarian stimulation in women participating inin vitrofertilization or intracytoplasmic sperm injection currently in Phase III development in the United States. Merck continues to anticipate filing an NDA for
MK-8962 with the FDA in 2013.

MK-7243 is an investigational allergy immunotherapy sublingual tablet (“AIT”) in Phase III development for grass pollen allergy
for which the Company has North American rights. AIT is a dissolvable oral tablet that is designed to prevent allergy symptoms by inducing a protective immune response against allergies, thereby treating the underlying cause of the disease. Merck is
investigating AIT for the treatment of grass pollen allergic rhinoconjunctivitis in both children and adults. The Company has submitted a BLA for MK-7243 with the FDA.







MK-3641, an AIT for ragweed allergy, is also in Phase III development for the North
American market. The Company anticipates filing a BLA for MK-3641 with the FDA in 2013.

MK-8175A, NOMAC/E2, which is being
marketed asZoelyin the EU, is an investigational oral contraceptive for use by women to prevent pregnancy. NOMAC/E2 is a combined oral contraceptive tablet containing a unique monophasic combination of two hormones: nomegestrol acetate, a
highly selective progesterone-derived progestin, and 17-beta estradiol, an estrogen that is similar to the one naturally present in a women’s body. In November 2011, Merck received a Complete Response Letter from the FDA for NOMAC/E2. The
Company is conducting an additional clinical study requested by the FDA and plans to update the application in the future.

MK-3814, preladenant, is a selective adenosine 2a receptor antagonist in Phase III development for
treatment of Parkinson’s disease. The Company anticipates filing an NDA for MK-3814 with the FDA in 2014.

V212 is an
inactivated VZV vaccine in development for the prevention of herpes zoster. The Company is enrolling two Phase III trials, one in autologous hematopoietic cell transplant patients and the other in patients with solid tumor malignancies undergoing
chemotherapy and hematological malignancies. The Company anticipates filing a BLA first with the autologous hematopoietic cell transplant data in 2014 and filing for the second indication in cancer patients at a later date.

V419 is an investigational hexavalent pediatric combination vaccine, which contains components of current vaccines, designed to help
protect against six potentially serious diseases: diphtheria, tetanus, whooping cough (Bordetella pertussis), polio (poliovirus types 1, 2, and 3), invasive disease caused byHaemophilus influenzaetype b, and hepatitis B that is being
developed in collaboration with Sanofi-Pasteur. The Company anticipates filing a BLA for V419 with the FDA in 2014.

MK-7009,
vaniprevir, is an investigational, oral twice-daily protease inhibitor for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C virus for development in Japan only. The Company anticipates filing a new drug application for MK-7009 in Japan in 2014.

MK-3102 is an investigational once-weekly DPP-4 inhibitor in development for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. The Company anticipates
filing an NDA for MK-3102 with the FDA beyond 2014.

MK-3222 is an anti-interleukin-23 monoclonal antibody candidate being
investigated for the treatment of psoriasis. The Company anticipates filing a BLA for MK-3222 with the FDA beyond 2014.

MK-3415A, actoxumab/bezlotoxumab, an investigational candidate for the treatment ofClostridium difficileinfection, is a
combination of two monoclonal antibodies used to treat patients with a single infusion. The Company now anticipates filing a BLA for MK-3415A with the FDA in 2015.







MK-0859, anacetrapib, is an investigational inhibitor of the cholesteryl ester transfer
protein (“CETP”) that is being investigated in lipid management to raise HDL-C and reduce LDL-C. Based on the results from the Phase III DEFINE (Determining the EFficacy and Tolerability of CETP INhibition with AnacEtrapib) safety study of
1,623 patients with coronary heart disease or coronary heart disease risk equivalents, the Company initiated a large, event-driven cardiovascular clinical outcomes trial REVEAL (Randomized EValuation of the Effects of Anacetrapib Through
Lipid-modification) involving patients with preexisting vascular disease that is predicted to be completed in 2017. The Company continues to anticipate filing an NDA for anacetrapib with the FDA beyond 2015.

MK-8931 is Merck’s novel investigational oral ß-amyloid precursor protein site-cleaving enzyme (BACE) inhibitor for the
treatment of Alzheimer’s disease. In December 2012, Merck announced the initiation of a Phase II/III clinical trial (EPOCH) designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of MK-8931 versus placebo in patients with mild-to-moderate
Alzheimer’s disease.

MK-8669, ridaforolimus, is an investigational oral mTOR (mammalian target of rapamycin) inhibitor
under development for cancer indications. In June 2012, Merck announced that the FDA issued a Complete Response Letter regarding the NDA for ridaforolimus as a treatment for metastatic soft tissue or bone sarcoma. The Complete Response Letter states
that the FDA cannot approve the application in its present form, and that additional clinical trial(s) would need to be conducted to further assess safety and efficacy. In November 2012, Merck formally notified the EMA of its decision to withdraw
the MAA for ridaforolimus that was accepted by the EMA in 2011. The Company no longer plans to pursue the sarcoma indication in the United States or the EU, but will continue to support patients enrolled in ongoing clinical trials. Merck remains
committed to pursuing ridaforolimus in other cancer indications. As part of an exclusive license agreement with ARIAD Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (“ARIAD”), Merck is responsible for the development and worldwide commercialization of
ridaforolimus in oncology.

In December 2012, Merck announced the HPS2-THRIVE study of MK-0524A,Tredaptive, did not
meet its primary endpoint. In the study, adding the combination of extended-release niacin and laropiprant to statin therapy did not significantly further reduce the risk of the combination of coronary deaths, non-fatal heart attacks, strokes or
revascularizations compared to statin therapy. In addition, there was a statistically significant increase in the incidence of some types of non-fatal serious adverse events in the group that received extended-release niacin/laropiprant compared to
statin therapy. Merck does not plan to seek regulatory approval for the medicine in the United States. In January 2013, based on the understanding of the preliminary data from the HPS2-THRIVE study and in consultation with regulatory authorities,
Merck began taking steps to suspend the availability ofTredaptive, which is approved for use in certain countries outside of the United States. The clinical development program for MK-0524B, a combination product of extended-release niacin
with laropiprant and simvastatin, had previously been discontinued.

In 2012, Merck announced that it will return the global
marketing and development rights for both the intravenous and oral formulations for vernakalant, a treatment for atrial fibrillation, to Cardiome Pharma Corp. for business reasons. Merck also decided in 2012 to discontinue the clinical development
program for MK-0431E, a combination product of sitagliptin and atorvastatin for the treatment of type 2 diabetes, for business reasons.







The chart below reflects the Company’s research pipeline as of February 22, 2013.
Candidates shown in Phase III include specific products and the date such candidate entered into Phase III development. Candidates shown in Phase II include the most advanced compound with a specific mechanism or, if listed compounds have
the same mechanism, they are each currently intended for commercialization in a given therapeutic area. Small molecules and biologics are given MK-number designations and vaccine candidates are given V-number designations. Candidates in
Phase I, additional indications in the same therapeutic area and additional claims, line extensions or formulations for in-line products are not shown.





Phase IIPhase III (Phase III entry date)Under Review

AllergyMK-8237, Immunotherapy(1)Alzheimer’s DiseaseMK-8931(2)AsthmaMK-1029Bacterial InfectionMK-7655CancerMK-0646 (dalotuzumab)MK-1775MK-2206MK-7965 (dinaciclib)(2)MK-8669 (ridaforolimus)CMV Prophylaxis in Transplant PatientsMK-8228 (letermovir)Contraception, Medicated IUSMK-8342Contraception,
Next Generation RingMK-8175AMK-8342BHepatitis CMK-5172MK-8742HIVMK-1439InsomniaMK-6096MelanomaMK-3475MigraineMK-1602Overactive
BladderMK-4618Pneumoconjugate VaccineV114Rheumatoid
ArthritisMK-8457



AllergyMK-7243, Grass pollen (March 2008)(1)(3)MK-3641, Ragweed(September 2009)(1)AtherosclerosisMK-0859 (anacetrapib) (May 2008)Clostridium difficileInfectionMK-3415A (actoxumab/bezlotoxumab) (November 2011)ContraceptionMK-8175A (NOMAC/E2)(U.S.) (June 2006)(4)Diabetes MellitusMK-3102 (September 2012)FertilityMK-8962 (corifollitropin alfa injection) (U.S.) (July 2006)Hepatitis CMK-7009 (vaniprevir)(June 2011)(5)Herpes ZosterV212 (inactivated VZV vaccine) (December 2010)HPV-Related CancersV503 (HPV vaccine (9 valent)) (September 2008)OsteoporosisMK-0822 (odanacatib) (September 2007)Parkinson’s DiseaseMK-3814 (preladenant) (July 2010)Pediatric Hexavalent Combination VaccineV419 (April 2011)Platinum-Resistant Ovarian CancerMK-8109 (vintafolide) (U.S.) (April 2011)PsoriasisMK-3222 (December 2012)ThrombosisMK-5348 (vorapaxar) (September 2007)



AtherosclerosisMK-0653C (ezetimibe/atorvastatin) (U.S.)InsomniaMK-4305 (suvorexant) (U.S.)Neuromuscular Blockade ReversalMK-8616 (sugammadex sodium injection) (U.S.)Platinum-Resistant Ovarian
CancerMK-8109 (vintafolide) (EU)

Footnotes:(1)North American rights
only.(2)Phase II/III adaptive design.(3)The Company has submitted a BLA forMK-7243 and now awaits acceptance forreview by the
FDA.(4)In November 2011, Merck received aComplete Response Letter from the FDAfor NOMAC/E2 (MK-8175A). TheCompany is conducting an additionalclinical study requested by the FDA
andplans to update the application in the
future.(5)For development in Japan only.

Employees

As of December 31, 2012, the Company had approximately 83,000 employees worldwide, with approximately 32,500 employed in the United States, including Puerto Rico. Approximately 31% of worldwide
employees of the Company are represented by various collective bargaining groups.

In 2010, the Company commenced actions under
a global restructuring program (the “Merger Restructuring Program”) in conjunction with the integration of the legacy Merck and legacy Schering-Plough businesses designed to optimize the cost structure of the combined company. These
initial actions, which are expected to result in workforce reductions of approximately 17%, primarily reflect the elimination of positions in sales, administrative and headquarters organizations, as well as from the sale or closure of certain
manufacturing and research and development sites and the consolidation of office facilities. In July 2011, the Company initiated further actions under the Merger Restructuring Program through which the Company expects to reduce its workforce
measured at the time of the Merger by an additional 12% to 13% across the Company worldwide. A majority of the workforce reductions associated with these additional actions relate to manufacturing (including







Animal Health), administrative and headquarters organizations. Since inception of the Merger Restructuring Program through December 31, 2012, Merck has eliminated approximately 22,400
positions comprised of employee separations, as well as the elimination of contractors and vacant positions.

In October 2008,
Merck announced a global restructuring program (the “2008 Restructuring Program”) to reduce its cost structure, increase efficiency, and enhance competitiveness. As part of the 2008 Restructuring Program, the Company expects to eliminate
approximately 7,200 positions — 6,800 active employees and 400 vacancies — across the Company worldwide. Since inception of the 2008 Restructuring Program through December 31, 2012, Merck has eliminated approximately 6,400 positions
comprised of employee separations and the elimination of contractors and vacant positions.

Environmental Matters

The Company believes that there are no compliance issues associated with applicable environmental laws and regulations that would have a
material adverse effect on the Company. The Company is also remediating environmental contamination resulting from past industrial activity at certain of its sites. Expenditures for remediation and environmental liabilities were $14 million in 2012,
$25 million in 2011 and $16 million in 2010, and are estimated at $84 million in the aggregate for the years 2013 through 2017. These amounts do not consider potential recoveries from other parties. The Company has taken an active role in
identifying and providing for these costs and, in management’s opinion, the liabilities for all environmental matters, which are probable and reasonably estimable, have been accrued and totaled $145 million at December 31, 2012. Although
it is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of these environmental matters, or the ultimate costs of remediation, management does not believe that any reasonably possible expenditures that may be incurred in excess of the liabilities
accrued should exceed $112 million in the aggregate. Management also does not believe that these expenditures should have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources for
any year.

Merck believes that climate change could present risks to its business. Some of the potential impacts of climate
change to its business include increased operating costs due to additional regulatory requirements, physical risks to the Company’s facilities, water limitations and disruptions to its supply chain. These potential risks are integrated into the
Company’s business planning including investment in reducing energy, water use and greenhouse gas emissions. The Company does not believe these risks are material to its business at this time.

Geographic Area Information

The Company’s operations outside the United States are conducted primarily through subsidiaries. Sales worldwide by subsidiaries outside the United States were 57% of sales in 2012, 57% of sales in
2011 and 56% of sales in 2010.

The Company’s worldwide business is subject to risks of currency fluctuations,
governmental actions and other governmental proceedings abroad. The Company does not regard these risks as a deterrent to further expansion of its operations abroad. However, the Company closely reviews its methods of operations and adopts
strategies responsive to changing economic and political conditions.

Merck has expanded its operations in countries located in
Latin America, the Middle East, Africa, Eastern Europe and Asia Pacific. Business in these developing areas, while sometimes less stable, offers important opportunities for growth over time.

Financial information about geographic areas of the Company’s business is discussed in Item 8. “Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data” below.

Available Information

The Company’s Internet website address iswww.merck.com.The Company will make available, free of charge at the “Investors” portion of its website, its Annual Report on
Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or







15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange
Commission (“SEC”).

The Company’s corporate governance guidelines and the charters of the Board of
Directors’ four standing committees are available on the Company’s website atwww.merck.com/about/leadershipand all such information is available in print to any stockholder who requests it from the Company.



