Item 1.Business.

For financial information and other information about the Company’s segments, see Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” below.

All product or service marks appearing in type form different from that of the surrounding text are trademarks or service marks owned, licensed to, promoted or distributed by Merck, its subsidiaries or affiliates, except as noted. All other trademarks or services marks are those of their respective owners.



Product Sales

Sales of the Company’s top pharmaceutical products, as well as total sales of animal health and consumer care products, were as follows:

($ in millions)201320122011Total Sales$44,033$47,267$48,047Pharmaceutical37,43740,60141,289Januvia4,0044,0863,324Zetia2,6582,5672,428Remicade2,2712,0762,667Gardasil1,8311,6311,209Janumet1,8291,6591,363Isentress1,6431,5151,359Vytorin1,6431,7471,882Nasonex1,3351,2681,286ProQuad/M-M-RII/Varivax1,3061,2731,202Singulair1,1963,8535,479Animal Health3,3623,3993,253Consumer Care1,8941,9521,840Other Revenues(1)1,3401,3151,665

(1)Other revenues are primarily comprised of alliance revenue, miscellaneous corporate revenues and third-party manufacturing sales. On October 1, 2013, the Company divested a substantial portion of its third-party manufacturing sales.









Pharmaceutical

The Company’s pharmaceutical products include therapeutic and preventive agents, generally sold by prescription, for the treatment of human disorders. Certain of the products within the Company’s franchises are as follows:

Primary Care and Women’s Health

Cardiovascular:Zetia(ezetimibe) (marketed asEzetroloutside the United States); andVytorin(ezetimibe/simvastatin) (marketed asInegyoutside the United States), cholesterol modifying medicines.

Diabetes and Obesity:Januvia(sitagliptin) andJanumet(sitagliptin/metformin HCl) for the treatment of type 2 diabetes.

Respiratory:Nasonex(mometasone furoate monohydrate), an inhaled nasal corticosteroid for the treatment of nasal allergy symptoms;Singulair(montelukast), a medicine indicated for the chronic treatment of asthma and the relief of symptoms of allergic rhinitis;DuleraInhalation Aerosol (mometasone furoate/formoterol fumarate dihydrate), a combination medicine for the treatment of asthma; andAsmanex Twisthaler(mometasone furoate inhalation powder), an inhaled corticosteroid for first-line maintenance treatment of asthma in patients 4 years of age and older.

Women’s Health and Endocrine:NuvaRing(etonogestrel/ethinyl estradiol vaginal ring), a vaginal contraceptive ring; Fosamax(alendronate sodium) for the treatment and prevention of osteoporosis; Follistim AQ(follitropin beta injection), a fertility treatment;Implanon(etonogestrel implant), a single-rod subdermal contraceptive implant; andCerazette(desogestrel), a progestin only oral contraceptive.

Other:Arcoxia(etoricoxib) for the treatment of arthritis and pain, which the Company markets outside the United States; andAvelox(moxifloxacin), a broad-spectrum fluoroquinolone antibiotic for the treatment of certain respiratory and skin infections, which the Company only markets in the United States.

Hospital and Specialty

Immunology:Remicade(infliximab) andSimponi(golimumab) for the treatment of inflammatory diseases, which the Company markets in Europe, Russia and Turkey.

Infectious Disease:Isentress(raltegravir), an antiretroviral therapy for use in combination therapy for the treatment of HIV-1 infection;Cancidas(caspofungin acetate), an anti-fungal product;PegIntron(peginterferon alpha-2b), a treatment for chronic hepatitis C;Invanz(ertapenem sodium) for the treatment of certain infections;Victrelis(boceprevir), a treatment for chronic hepatitis C; andNoxafil(posaconazole) for the prevention of invasive fungal infections.

Oncology:Temodar(temozolomide) (marketed asTemodaloutside the United States), a treatment for certain types of brain tumors; andEmend(aprepitant) for the prevention of chemotherapy-induced and post-operative nausea and vomiting.

Other:Cosopt(dorzolamide hydrochloride-timolol maleate ophthalmic solution), which the Company markets outside the United States, andTrusopt(dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution), ophthalmic products;Bridion(sugammadex sodium injection), a medication for the reversal of certain muscle relaxants used during surgery; and Integrilin (eptifibatide), a treatment for patients with acute coronary syndrome.

Diversified Brands

Cozaar(losartan potassium) andHyzaar(losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide), treatments for hypertension;Primaxin(imipenem and cilastatin sodium), an anti-bacterial product;Zocor(simvastatin), a statin for modifying cholesterol;Propecia(finasteride), a product for the treatment of male pattern hair loss;Clarinex(desloratadine), a non-sedating antihistamine;Remeron(mirtazapine), an antidepressant;Claritin Rx(loratadine) for treatment of seasonal outdoor allergies and year-round indoor allergies; Proscar(finasteride), a urology product for the treatment of symptomatic benign prostate enlargement; andMaxalt(rizatriptan benzoate),a product for acute treatment of migraine.

Vaccines

Gardasil(Human Papillomavirus Quadrivalent [Types 6, 11, 16 and 18] Vaccine, Recombinant), a vaccine to help prevent certain diseases caused by four types of human papillomavirus (“HPV”); ProQuad(Measles, Mumps, Rubella and Varicella Virus Vaccine Live), a pediatric combination vaccine to help protect against measles, mumps,









rubella and varicella;M-M-RII (Measles, Mumps and Rubella Virus Vaccine Live), a vaccine to help prevent measles, mumps and rubella;Varivax(Varicella Virus Vaccine Live), a vaccine to help prevent chickenpox (varicella);Zostavax(Zoster Vaccine Live), a vaccine to help prevent shingles (herpes zoster); Pneumovax23 (pneumococcal vaccine polyvalent), a vaccine to help prevent pneumococcal disease; andRotaTeq(Rotavirus Vaccine, Live Oral, Pentavalent), a vaccine to help protect against rotavirus gastroenteritis in infants and children.

Animal Health

The Animal Health segment discovers, develops, manufactures and markets animal health products, including vaccines. Principal products in this segment include:

Livestock Products:Nuflorantibiotic range for use in cattle and swine;Bovilis/Vistavaccine lines for infectious diseases in cattle;Banaminebovine and swine anti-inflammatory;Estrumatefor the treatment of fertility disorders in cattle;Regumate/Matrixfertility management for swine and horses;Resflorcombination broad-spectrum antibiotic and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug for bovine respiratory disease;Zuprevofor bovine respiratory disease;ZilmaxandRevalorto improve production efficiencies in beef cattle;M+Pacswine pneumonia vaccine; andPorcilisvaccine line for infectious diseases in swine.

Poultry Products:Nobilis/Innovax,vaccine lines for poultry; andParacoxandCoccivaccoccidiosis vaccines.

Companion Animal Products:Nobivacvaccine lines for flexible dog and cat vaccination;Otomax/Mometamax/Posatexear ointments for acute and chronic otitis;Caninsulin/Vetsulindiabetes mellitus treatment for dogs and cats;Panacur/Safeguardbroad-spectrum anthelmintic (de-wormer) for use in many animals; andActivyl/Scalibor/Exspotfor protecting against bites from fleas, ticks, mosquitoes and sandflies.

Aquaculture Products:Sliceparasiticide for sea lice in salmon;Aquavac/Norvaxvaccines against bacterial and viral disease in fish;Compact PDvaccine for salmon; andAquaflorantibiotic for farm-raised fish.

Consumer Care

The Consumer Care segment develops, manufactures and markets over-the-counter, foot care and sun care products. Principal products in this segment include:

Over-the-Counter Products:Claritinnon-drowsy antihistamines;MiraLAXfor relief of occasional constipation;Coricidin HBPdecongestant-free cold/flu medicine for people with high blood pressure;Afrinnasal decongestant spray;Zegerid OTCtreatment for frequent heartburn; andOxytrolFor Women, a treatment for overactive bladder in women.

Foot Care:Dr. Scholl’sfoot care products;Lotrimintopical antifungal products; andTinactintopical antifungal products and foot and sneaker odor/wetness products.

Sun Care:Coppertonesun care lotions, sprays and dry oils.

For a further discussion of sales of the Company’s products, see Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” below.



Joint Ventures

AstraZeneca LP

In 1982, Merck entered into an agreement with Astra AB (“Astra”) to develop and market Astra products in the United States. In 1994, Merck and Astra formed an equally owned joint venture that developed and marketed most of Astra’s new prescription medicines in the United States including Prilosec (omeprazole), the first in a class of medications known as proton pump inhibitors, which slows the production of acid from the cells of the stomach lining.

In 1998, Merck and Astra restructured the joint venture whereby Merck acquired Astra’s interest in the joint venture, renamed KBI Inc. (“KBI”), and contributed KBI’s operating assets to a new U.S. limited partnership named Astra Pharmaceuticals, L.P. (the “Partnership”), in exchange for a 1% limited partner interest. Astra contributed the net assets of its wholly owned subsidiary, Astra USA, Inc., to the Partnership in exchange for a 99% general partner interest. The Partnership, renamed AstraZeneca LP (“AZLP”) upon Astra’s 1999 merger with Zeneca Group Plc, became the exclusive distributor of the products for which KBI retained rights.









The Company earns certain Partnership returns as well as ongoing revenue based on sales of KBI products. The Partnership returns include a priority return provided for in the Partnership Agreement, a preferential return representing the Company’s share of undistributed Partnership AZLP generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) earnings, and a variable return related to the Company’s 1% limited partner interest.

In 2014, AstraZeneca has the option to purchase Merck’s interest in KBI based in part on the value of Merck’s interest in Nexium and Prilosec. AstraZeneca’s option is exercisable between March 1, 2014 and April 30, 2014. If AstraZeneca chooses to exercise this option, the closing date is expected to be June 30, 2014. Under the amended agreement, AstraZeneca will make a payment to Merck upon closing of $327 million, reflecting an estimate of the fair value of Merck’s interest in Nexium and Prilosec. This portion of the exercise price is subject to a true-up in 2018 based on actual sales from closing in 2014 to June 2018. The exercise price will also include an additional amount equal to a multiple of ten times Merck’s average 1% annual profit allocation in the partnership for the three years prior to exercise. The Company believes that it is likely that AstraZeneca will exercise its option in 2014. If AstraZeneca exercises its option, the Company will no longer record equity income from AZLP and supply sales to AZLP will terminate. In addition, the Company will recognize a non-cash pretax gain of approximately $700 million.

Sanofi Pasteur MSD

In 1994, Merck and Pasteur Mérieux Connaught (now Sanofi Pasteur S.A.) formed a joint venture to market human vaccines in Europe and to collaborate in the development of combination vaccines for distribution in the then-existing European Union (“EU”) and the European Free Trade Association. Merck and Sanofi Pasteur contributed, among other things, their European vaccine businesses for equal shares in the joint venture, known as Pasteur Mérieux MSD, S.N.C. (now Sanofi Pasteur MSD, S.N.C.). The joint venture maintains a presence, directly or through affiliates or branches, in Belgium, Italy, Germany, Spain, France, Austria, Ireland, Sweden, Portugal, the Netherlands, Switzerland and the United Kingdom and through distributors in the rest of its territory.



Licenses

In 1998, a subsidiary of Schering-Plough Corporation (“Schering-Plough”) entered into a licensing agreement with Centocor Ortho Biotech Inc. (“Centocor”), a Johnson & Johnson (“J&J”) company, to market

Remicade

, which is prescribed for the treatment of inflammatory diseases. In 2005, Schering-Plough’s subsidiary exercised an option under its contract with Centocor for license rights to develop and commercialize

Simponi

, a fully human monoclonal antibody. The Company has exclusive marketing rights to both products throughout Europe, Russia and Turkey. In December 2007, Schering-Plough and Centocor revised their distribution agreement regarding the development, commercialization and distribution of both

Remicade

and

Simponi

, extending the Company’s rights to exclusively market

Remicade

to match the duration of the Company’s exclusive marketing rights for

Simponi

. In addition, Schering-Plough and Centocor agreed to share certain development costs relating to

Simponi

’s auto-injector delivery system. On October 6, 2009, the European Commission (“EC”) approved

Simponi

as a treatment for rheumatoid arthritis and other immune system disorders in two presentations — a novel auto-injector and a prefilled syringe. As a result, the Company’s marketing rights for both products extend for 15 years from the first commercial sale of

Simponi

in the EU following the receipt of pricing and reimbursement approval within the EU. All profits derived from Merck’s exclusive distribution of the two products in these countries are equally divided between Merck and J&J.



Competition and the Health Care Environment

Competition

The markets in which the Company conducts its business and the pharmaceutical industry are highly competitive and highly regulated. The Company’s competitors include other worldwide research-based pharmaceutical companies, smaller research companies with more limited therapeutic focus, and generic drug and consumer and animal health care manufacturers. The Company’s operations may be adversely affected by generic and biosimilar competition as the Company’s products mature, as well as technological advances of competitors, industry consolidation, patents granted to competitors, competitive combination products, new products of competitors, the generic availability of competitors’ branded products, and new information from clinical trials of marketed products or post-marketing surveillance. In addition, patent positions are increasingly being challenged by competitors, and the outcome can be highly uncertain. An adverse result in a patent dispute can preclude commercialization of products or negatively affect sales of existing products and could result in the recognition of an impairment charge with respect to intangible assets









associated with certain products. Competitive pressures have intensified as pressures in the industry have grown. The effect on operations of competitive factors and patent disputes cannot be predicted.

Pharmaceutical competition involves a rigorous search for technological innovations and the ability to market these innovations effectively. With its long-standing emphasis on research and development, the Company is well positioned to compete in the search for technological innovations. Additional resources required to meet market challenges include quality control, flexibility to meet customer specifications, an efficient distribution system and a strong technical information service. The Company is active in acquiring and marketing products through external alliances, such as joint ventures and licenses, and has been refining its sales and marketing efforts to further address changing industry conditions. However, the introduction of new products and processes by competitors may result in price reductions and product displacements, even for products protected by patents. For example, the number of compounds available to treat a particular disease typically increases over time and can result in slowed sales growth or reduced sales for the Company’s products in that therapeutic category.

The highly competitive animal health business is affected by several factors including regulatory and legislative issues, scientific and technological advances, product innovation, the quality and price of the Company’s products, effective promotional efforts and the frequent introduction of generic products by competitors.

The Company’s consumer care operations face competition from other consumer health care businesses as well as retailers who carry their own private label brands. The Company’s competitive position is affected by several factors, including regulatory and legislative issues, scientific and technological advances, the quality and price of the Company’s products, promotional efforts and the growth of lower cost private label brands.

Health Care Environment

Global efforts toward health care cost containment continue to exert pressure on product pricing and market access. In the United States, federal and state governments for many years also have pursued methods to reduce the cost of drugs and vaccines for which they pay. For example, federal laws require the Company to pay specified rebates for medicines reimbursed by Medicaid and to provide discounts for outpatient medicines purchased by certain Public Health Service entities and hospitals serving a disproportionate share of low income or uninsured patients.

Against this backdrop, the United States enacted major health care reform legislation in 2010, which began to be implemented in 2010. Various insurance market reforms have advanced and will continue through full implementation in 2014. The law is expected to expand access to health care to about 32 million Americans by the end of the decade who did not previously have insurance coverage. With respect to the effect of the law on the pharmaceutical industry, the law increased the mandated Medicaid rebate from 15.1% to 23.1%, expanded the rebate to Medicaid managed care utilization, and increased the types of entities eligible for the federal 340B drug discount program. The law also requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to pay a 50% point of service discount to Medicare Part D beneficiaries when they are in the Medicare Part D coverage gap (i.e., the so-called “donut hole”). Approximately $280 million, $210 million and $150 million was recorded by Merck as a reduction to revenue in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, related to the donut hole provision. Also, pharmaceutical manufacturers are now required to pay an annual health care reform fee. The total annual industry fee was $2.8 billion in 2013 and will be $3.0 billion in 2014. The fee is assessed on each company in proportion to its share of sales to certain government programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid. The Company recorded $151 million, $190 million and $162 million of costs within

Marketing and administrative

expenses in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, for the annual health care reform fee. The full impact of U.S. health care reform cannot be predicted at this time.

The Company also faces increasing pricing pressure globally from managed care organizations, government agencies and programs that could negatively affect the Company’s sales and profit margins. In the United States, these include (i) practices of managed care groups, federal and state exchanges, and institutional and governmental purchasers, and (ii) U.S. federal laws and regulations related to Medicare and Medicaid, including the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 and the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010. Changes to the health care system enacted as part of health care reform in the United States, as well as increased purchasing power of entities that negotiate on behalf of Medicare, Medicaid, and private sector beneficiaries, could result in further pricing pressures.

In addition, in the effort to contain the U.S. federal deficit, the pharmaceutical industry could be considered a potential source of savings via legislative proposals that have been debated but not enacted. These types of revenue









generating or cost saving proposals include additional direct price controls in the Medicare prescription drug program (Part D). In addition, Congress may again consider proposals to allow, under certain conditions, the importation of medicines from other countries. It remains very uncertain as to what proposals, if any, may be included as part of future federal budget deficit reduction proposals that would directly or indirectly affect the Company.

Efforts toward health care cost containment remain intense in several European countries. Many countries have continued to announce and execute austerity measures, which include the implementation of pricing actions to reduce prices of generic and patented drugs and mandatory switches to generic drugs. While the Company is taking steps to mitigate the impact in these countries, the austerity measures continued to negatively affect the Company’s revenue performance in 2013 and the Company anticipates the austerity measures will continue to negatively affect revenue performance in 2014. In addition, a majority of countries attempt to contain drug costs by engaging in reference pricing in which authorities examine pre-determined markets for published prices of drugs by brand. The authorities then use price data from those markets to set new local prices for brand-name drugs, including the Company’s. Guidelines for examining reference pricing are usually set in local markets and can be changed pursuant to local regulations.

In addition, in Japan, the pharmaceutical industry is subject to government-mandated biennial price reductions of pharmaceutical products and certain vaccines. Furthermore, the government can order repricings for classes of drugs if it determines that it is appropriate under applicable rules.

Certain markets outside of the United States have also implemented cost management strategies, such as health technology assessments, which require additional data, reviews and administrative processes, all of which increase the complexity, timing and costs of obtaining product reimbursement and exert downward pressure on available reimbursement.

The Company’s focus on and share of revenue from emerging markets has increased. Governments in many emerging markets are also focused on constraining health care costs and have enacted price controls and related measures, such as compulsory licenses, that aim to put pressure on the price of pharmaceuticals and constrain market access. The Company anticipates that pricing pressures and market access challenges will continue in 2014 to varying degrees in the emerging markets.

Beyond pricing and market access challenges, other conditions in emerging market countries can affect the Company’s efforts to continue to grow in these markets, including potential political instability, significant currency fluctuation and controls, financial crises, limited or changing availability of funding for health care, and other developments that may adversely impact the business environment for the Company. Further, the Company may engage third-party agents to assist in operating in emerging market countries, which may affect its ability to realize continued growth and may also increase the Company’s risk exposure.

In addressing cost containment pressures, the Company engages in public policy advocacy with policymakers and continues to work to demonstrate that its medicines provide value to patients and to those who pay for health care. The Company advocates with government policymakers to encourage a long-term approach to sustainable health care financing that ensures access to innovative medicines and does not disproportionately target pharmaceuticals as a source of budget savings. In markets with historically low rates of health care spending, the Company encourages those governments to increase their investments and adopt market reforms in order to improve their citizens’ access to appropriate health care, including medicines.

Operating conditions have become more challenging under the global pressures of competition, industry regulation and cost containment efforts. Although no one can predict the effect of these and other factors on the Company’s business, the Company continually takes measures to evaluate, adapt and improve the organization and its business practices to better meet customer needs and believes that it is well positioned to respond to the evolving health care environment and market forces.

Government Regulation

The pharmaceutical industry is subject to regulation by regional, country, state and local agencies around the world. Governmental regulation and legislation tend to focus on standards and processes for determining drug safety and effectiveness, as well as conditions for sale or reimbursement, especially related to the pricing of products.

Of particular importance is the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the “FDA”), which administers requirements covering the testing, approval, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling, and marketing of prescription









pharmaceuticals. In many cases, the FDA requirements and practices have increased the amount of time and resources necessary to develop new products and bring them to market in the United States.

The EU has adopted directives and other legislation concerning the classification, labeling, advertising, wholesale distribution, integrity of the supply chain, enhanced pharmacovigilance monitoring and approval for marketing of medicinal products for human use. These provide mandatory standards throughout the EU, which may be supplemented or implemented with additional regulations by the EU member states. The Company’s policies and procedures are already consistent with the substance of these directives; consequently, it is believed that they will not have any material effect on the Company’s business.

The Company believes that it will continue to be able to conduct its operations, including launching new drugs, in this regulatory environment. (See “Research and Development” below for a discussion of the regulatory approval process.)

Access to Medicines

As a global health care company, Merck’s primary role is to discover and develop innovative medicines and vaccines. The Company also recognizes that it has an important role to play in helping to improve access to its products around the world. The Company’s efforts in this regard are wide-ranging and include a set of principles that the Company strives to embed into its operations and business strategies to guide the Company’s worldwide approach to expanding access to health care. In addition, the Company has many far-reaching philanthropic programs. The Merck Patient Assistance Program provides medicines and adult vaccines for free to people in the United States who do not have prescription drug or health insurance coverage and who, without the Company’s assistance, cannot afford their Merck medicine and vaccines. In 2011, Merck announced that it would launch “Merck for Mothers,” a long-term effort with global health partners to end preventable deaths from complications of pregnancy and childbirth. Through this initiative, Merck is leveraging its scientific and business expertise to help make proven solutions more widely available, develop new technologies and improve public and policymaker awareness of these issues.

Merck has also in the past provided funds to the Merck Foundation, an independent organization, which has partnered with a variety of organizations dedicated to improving global health. One of these partnerships is the African Comprehensive HIV/AIDS Partnership in Botswana, a collaboration with the government of Botswana that was renewed in 2010 and supports Botswana’s response to HIV/AIDS through a comprehensive and sustainable approach to HIV prevention, care, treatment, and support.



Privacy and Data Protection

The Company is subject to a number of privacy and data protection laws and regulations globally. The legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues to evolve. There has been increased attention to privacy and data protection issues in both developed and emerging markets with the potential to affect directly the Company’s business, including recently enacted laws and regulations in the United States, Europe, Asia and Latin America, and increased enforcement and litigation activity in the United States and other developed markets.



Distribution

The Company sells its human health pharmaceutical products primarily to drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals, government agencies and managed health care providers, such as health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit managers and other institutions. Human health vaccines are sold primarily to physicians, wholesalers, physician distributors and government entities. The Company’s professional representatives communicate the effectiveness, safety and value of the Company’s pharmaceutical and vaccine products to health care professionals in private practice, group practices, hospitals and managed care organizations. The Company sells its animal health products to veterinarians, distributors and animal producers. The Company’s over-the-counter, foot care and sun care products are sold through wholesale and retail drug, food chain and mass merchandiser outlets, as well as club stores and specialty channels.



Raw Materials

Raw materials and supplies, which are generally available from multiple sources, are purchased worldwide and are normally available in quantities adequate to meet the needs of the Company’s business.











Patents, Trademarks and Licenses

Patent protection is considered, in the aggregate, to be of material importance in the Company’s marketing of its products in the United States and in most major foreign markets. Patents may cover productsper se, pharmaceutical formulations, processes for or intermediates useful in the manufacture of products or the uses of products. Protection for individual products extends for varying periods in accordance with the legal life of patents in the various countries. The protection afforded, which may also vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent and its scope of coverage.

The Food and Drug Administration Modernization Act includes a Pediatric Exclusivity Provision that may provide an additional six months of market exclusivity in the United States for indications of new or currently marketed drugs if certain agreed upon pediatric studies are completed by the applicant. Current U.S. patent law provides additional patent term under Patent Term Restoration for periods when the patented product was under regulatory review by the FDA.

Patent portfolios developed for products introduced by the Company normally provide market exclusivity. The Company has the following key U.S. patent protection (including Patent Term Restoration and Pediatric Exclusivity) for major marketed products:

ProductYear of Expiration (in the U.S.)(1)Asmanex2014 (use)/2018 (formulation)Dulera2014 (use)/2017(formulation)/2020 (combination)Integrilin2014 (compound)/2015 (use/formulation)Nasonex(2)2014 (use/formulation)/2018(formulation)Emend2015Follistim AQ2015PegIntron2015 (conjugates)/2020 (Mature IFN-alpha)Invanz2016 (compound)/2017 (composition)Zostavax2016 (use)Zetia(3)/Vytorin/Liptruzet2017NuvaRing2018 (delivery system)Emendfor Injection2019Noxafil2019RotaTeq2019Intron A2020Recombivax2020 (method of making/vectors)Januvia/Janumet/Janumet XR2022 (compound)/2026 (salt)Zioptan2022 (with pending Patent Term Restoration)Isentress2023Victrelis2024 (with pending Patent Term Restoration)Gardasil2028

(1)Compound patent unless otherwise noted. Certain of the products listed may be the subject of patent litigation. See Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” Note 10. “Contingencies and Environmental Liabilities” below.

(2)By agreement, Apotex, a generic manufacturer, has been granted rights under Merck’sNasonexuse patent in the United States. In addition, a district court decision (upheld on appeal to the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit) found that Apotex’s proposed generic product would not infringe on Merck’sNasonexformulation patent. Thus, if Apotex’s application is approved by the FDA, it can enter the market in the United States with a generic version ofNasonex.

(3)By agreement, a generic manufacturer may launch a generic version ofZetiain the United States in December 2016.

While the expiration of a product patent normally results in a loss of market exclusivity for the covered pharmaceutical product, commercial benefits may continue to be derived from: (i) later-granted patents on processes and intermediates related to the most economical method of manufacture of the active ingredient of such product; (ii) patents relating to the use of such product; (iii) patents relating to novel compositions and formulations; and (iv) in the United States and certain other countries, market exclusivity that may be available under relevant law. The effect of product patent expiration on pharmaceutical products also depends upon many other factors such as the nature of the market and the position of the product in it, the growth of the market, the complexities and economics of the process for manufacture of the active ingredient of the product and the requirements of new drug provisions of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act or similar laws and regulations in other countries.











By agreement, Apotex Inc. and Apotex Corp. (collectively, “Apotex”) has been granted rights under Merck’sNasonexuse patent in the United States. In addition, a district court decision (upheld on appeal to the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit) found that Apotex’s proposed generic product would not infringe Merck’sNasonexformulation patent. Thus, if Apotex’s application is approved by the FDA, it can enter the market in the United States with a generic version ofNasonex. The Company anticipates that sales ofNasonexin the United States will decline significantly after these patent expiries and generic entry.

Additions to market exclusivity are sought in the United States and other countries through all relevant laws, including laws increasing patent life. Some of the benefits of increases in patent life have been partially offset by an increase in the number of incentives for and use of generic products. Additionally, improvements in intellectual property laws are sought in the United States and other countries through reform of patent and other relevant laws and implementation of international treaties.

The Company has the following key U.S. patent protection for drug candidates under review in the United States by the FDA. Additional patent term may be provided for these pipeline candidates based on Patent Term Restoration and Pediatric Exclusivity.

Under ReviewCurrently AnticipatedYear of Expiration (in the U.S.)MK-8962 (corifollitropin alfa injection)2018 (formulation/use)MK-8616 (sugammadex sodium injection)(1)2021MK-5348 (vorapaxar)2024MK-7243 (Timothy grass pollen allergen extract)2026 (use)MK-3641 (short ragweed pollen allergen extract)2026 (use)V503 (HPV vaccine (9 valent))2028MK-4305 (suvorexant)(2)2029

(1)In September 2013, Merck received a Complete Response Letter (“CRL”) from the FDA for the resubmission of the New Drug Application for sugammadex sodium injection (MK-8616). To address the CRL, the Company is conducting a hypersensitivity study and anticipates filing a New Drug Application resubmission with the FDA in 2014.

(2)In June 2013, Merck received a CRL from the FDA for suvorexant (MK-4305). In February 2014, the Company resubmitted its New Drug Application to the FDA.

The Company also has the following key U.S. patent protection for drug candidates in Phase 3 development:

Phase 3 Drug CandidateCurrently AnticipatedYear of Expiration (in the U.S.)V212 (inactivated varicella zoster virus (“VZV”) vaccine)2016 (use)V419 (pediatric hexavalent combination vaccine)2020 (method of making/vectors)MK-0822 (odanacatib)2024MK-8109 (vintafolide)2024MK-0859 (anacetrapib)2027MK-3222 (tildrakizumab)2028 (composition)MK-3415A (actoxumab/bezlotoxumab)2028MK-34752028MK-3102 (omarigliptin)2030MK-89312030MK-8835 (ertugliflozin)2031

Unless otherwise noted, the patents in the above charts are compound patents. Each patent is subject to any future patent term restoration of up to five years and six month pediatric market exclusivity, either or both of which may be available. In addition, depending on the circumstances surrounding any final regulatory approval of the compound, there may be other listed patents or patent applications pending that could have relevance to the product as finally approved; the relevance of any such application would depend upon the claims that ultimately may be granted and the nature of the final regulatory approval of the product. Also, regulatory exclusivity tied to the protection of clinical data is complementary to patent protection and, in some cases, may provide more effective or longer lasting marketing exclusivity than a compound’s patent estate. In the United States, the data protection generally runs five











years from first marketing approval of a new chemical entity, extended to seven years for an orphan drug indication and 12 years from first marketing approval of a biological product.

For further information with respect to the Company’s patents, see Item 1A. “Risk Factors” and Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” Note 10. “Contingencies and Environmental Liabilities” below.

Worldwide, all of the Company’s important products are sold under trademarks that are considered in the aggregate to be of material importance. Trademark protection continues in some countries as long as used; in other countries, as long as registered. Registration is for fixed terms and can be renewed indefinitely.

Royalty income in 2013 on patent and know-how licenses and other rights amounted to $339 million. Merck also incurred royalty expenses amounting to $1.3 billion in 2013 under patent and know-how licenses it holds.



Research and Development

The Company’s business is characterized by the introduction of new products or new uses for existing products through a strong research and development program. Approximately 12,300 people are employed in the Company’s research activities. Research and development expenses were $7.5 billion in 2013, $8.2 billion in 2012, and $8.5 billion in 2011 (which included restructuring costs in all years, as well as $279 million, $200 million and $587 million of in-process research and development impairment charges in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively). The Company prioritizes its research and development efforts and focus on candidates that it believes represent breakthrough science that will make a difference for patients and payers, with an increased emphasis on externally sourced programs.

The Company maintains a number of long-term exploratory and fundamental research programs in biology and chemistry as well as research programs directed toward product development. The Company’s research and development model is designed to increase productivity and improve the probability of success by prioritizing the Company’s research and development resources on candidates the Company believes are capable of providing unambiguous, promotable advantages to patients and payers and delivering the maximum value of its approved medicines and vaccines through new indications and new formulations. Merck is pursuing emerging product opportunities independent of therapeutic area or modality (small molecule, biologics and vaccines) and is building its biologics capabilities. Further, Merck has moved to diversify its portfolio through a collaboration on the development of biosimilars, which have the potential to harness the market opportunity presented by biological medicine patent expiries by delivering high quality biosimilars to enhance access for patients worldwide. The Company is committed to making externally sourced programs a greater component of its pipeline strategy, with a renewed focus on supplementing its internal research with a licensing and external alliance strategy focused on the entire spectrum of collaborations from early research to late-stage compounds, as well as access to new technologies.

The Company also reviews its pipeline to examine candidates which may provide more value through out-licensing. The Company is evaluating certain late-stage clinical development and platform technology assets to determine their out-licensing or sale potential. In January 2014, the Company entered into an agreement to divest its Sirna Therapeutics, Inc. subsidiary and related RNAi technology assets.

The Company’s clinical pipeline includes candidates in multiple disease areas, including atherosclerosis, cancer, cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, infectious diseases, inflammatory/autoimmune diseases, insomnia, neurodegenerative diseases, osteoporosis, respiratory diseases and women’s health.

In the development of human health products, industry practice and government regulations in the United States and most foreign countries provide for the determination of effectiveness and safety of new chemical compounds through preclinical tests and controlled clinical evaluation. Before a new drug or vaccine may be marketed in the United States, recorded data on preclinical and clinical experience are included in the New Drug Application (“NDA”) for a drug or the Biologics License Application (“BLA”) for a vaccine or biologic submitted to the FDA for the required approval.

Once the Company’s scientists discover a new small molecule compound or biologics molecule that they believe has promise to treat a medical condition, the Company commences preclinical testing with that compound. Preclinical testing includes laboratory testing and animal safety studies to gather data on chemistry, pharmacology, immunogenicity and toxicology. Pending acceptable preclinical data, the Company will initiate clinical testing in accordance with established regulatory requirements. The clinical testing begins with Phase 1 studies, which are designed to assess safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics, and preliminary pharmacodynamic activity of the compound in humans.









Vaccine development follows the same general pathway as for drugs. Preclinical testing focuses on the vaccine’s safety and ability to elicit a protective immune response (immunogenicity). Pre-marketing vaccine clinical trials are typically done in three phases. Initial Phase 1 clinical studies are conducted in normal subjects to evaluate the safety, tolerability and immunogenicity of the vaccine candidate. Phase 2 studies are dose-ranging studies. Finally, Phase 3 trials provide the necessary data on effectiveness and safety. If successful, the Company submits regulatory filings with the appropriate regulatory agencies. Also during this stage, the proposed manufacturing facility undergoes a pre-approval inspection during which production of the vaccine as it is in progress is examined in detail.

The FDA has four program designations — Fast Track, Breakthrough Therapy, Accelerated Approval, and Priority Review — to facilitate and expedite development and review of new drugs to address unmet medical needs in the treatment of serious or life-threatening conditions. The Fast Track designation provides pharmaceutical manufacturers with opportunities for frequent interactions with FDA reviewers during the product’s development and the ability for the manufacturer to do a rolling submission of the NDA/BLA. A rolling submission allows completed portions of the application to be submitted and reviewed by the FDA on an ongoing basis. The Breakthrough Therapy designation provides manufacturers with all of the features of the Fast Track designation as well as intensive guidance on implementing an efficient development program for the product and a commitment by the FDA to involve senior managers and experienced review staff in the review. The Accelerated Approval designation allows the FDA to approve a product based on an effect on a surrogate or intermediate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict a product’s clinical benefit and generally requires the manufacturer to conduct required post-approval confirmatory trials to verify the clinical benefit. The Priority Review designation means that the FDA’s goal is to take action on the NDA/BLA within six months, compared to ten months under standard review.

The primary method the Company uses to obtain marketing authorization of pharmaceutical products in the EU is through the “centralized procedure.” This procedure is compulsory for certain pharmaceutical products, in particular those using biotechnological processes, and is also available for certain new chemical compounds and









products. A company seeking to market an innovative pharmaceutical product through the centralized procedure must file a complete set of safety data and efficacy data as part of a Marketing Authorization Application (“MAA”) with the European Medicines Agency (“EMA”). After the EMA evaluates the MAA, it provides a recommendation to the EC and the EC then approves or denies the MAA. It is also possible for new chemical products to obtain marketing authorization in the EU through a “mutual recognition procedure” in which an application is made to a single member state and, if the member state approves the pharmaceutical product under a national procedure, the applicant may submit that approval to the mutual recognition procedure of some or all other member states.

Outside of the United States and the EU, the Company submits marketing applications to national regulatory authorities.  Examples of such are the Pharmaceutical Medical Devices Agency in Japan, Health Canada, Agencia Nacional de Vigilancia in Brazil, Korea Food and Drug Administration in South Korea, and Therapeutic Goods Administration in Australia.  Each country has a separate and independent review process and timeline. In many markets, approval times can be longer as the regulatory authority requires approval in a major market, such as the United States or the EU, and issuance of a Certificate of Pharmaceutical Product from that market before initiating their local review process.

Research and Development Update

The Company currently has several candidates under regulatory review in the United States or internationally.

MK-5348, vorapaxar, is an investigational anti-thrombotic medicine under review by the FDA and EMA. Merck is seeking approval of vorapaxar for the reduction of atherothrombotic events, when added to standard of care, in patients with a history of heart attack and no history of stroke or transient ischemic attack. In January 2014, the FDA’s Cardiovascular and Renal Drugs Advisory Committee recommended approval of vorapaxar. The FDA is not bound by the committee’s guidance, but takes its advice into consideration when reviewing investigational medicines.

V503, the Company’s nine-valent HPV vaccine in development to help protect against certain HPV-related diseases, is under review by the FDA. V503 incorporates antigens against five additional cancer-causing HPV types as compared withGardasil. The Company anticipates submitting an MAA to the EMA in the first half of 2014.

MK-8962, corifollitropin alfa injection, is an investigational fertility treatment under review by the FDA for controlled ovarian stimulation in women participating in assisted reproductive technology. If approved, corifollitropin alfa would be the first sustained follicular stimulant for use in a fertility treatment regimen in the United States. Merck’s corifollitropin alfa is currently approved in more than 50 markets outside the United States, including the EU.

MK-7243,Grastek(Timothy Grass Pollen Allergen Extract), an investigational Timothy grass pollen allergy immunotherapy tablet (“AIT”), and MK-3641,Ragwitek(Short Ragweed Pollen Allergen Extract), an investigational ragweed pollen AIT, are both under review by the FDA.Grastekis the proposed trade name for MK-7243 andRagwitekis the proposed trade name for MK-3641. MK-7243 and MK-3641 are investigational sublingual tablets designed to help treat the underlying cause of allergic rhinitis by generating an immune response to help protect allergic patients against effects triggered by the targeted allergen. Merck has partnered with ALK-Abello to develop its investigational sublingual allergy immunotherapy tablets for Timothy grass pollen, ragweed pollen and house dust mites in North America. In December 2013, the FDA’s Allergenic Products Advisory Committee had a positive discussion of MK-7243. In January 2014, the same Advisory Committee had a positive discussion of MK-3641. The FDA is not bound by the committee’s guidance, but takes its advice into consideration when reviewing investigational medicines. Merck expects the FDA’s review for both MK-7243 and MK-3641 to be completed in the first half of 2014. In February 2014, the Company announced thatGrastekreceived regulatory approval in Canada.

MK-4305, suvorexant, is an investigational insomnia medicine in a new class of medicines called orexin receptor antagonists for use in patients with difficulty falling or staying asleep. In July 2013, the Company announced that it had received a CRL from the FDA regarding the NDA for suvorexant. In the CRL, the FDA advised Merck that: (1) the efficacy of suvorexant has been established at doses of 10 mg to 40 mg in elderly and non-elderly adult patients; (2) 10 mg should be the starting dose for most patients and must be available before suvorexant can be approved; (3) 15 mg and 20 mg doses would be appropriate in patients in whom the 10 mg dose is well-tolerated but not effective; and (4), for patients taking concomitant moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors, a 5 mg dose would be necessary. In addition, the FDA determined that the safety data do not support the approval of suvorexant 30 mg and 40 mg. In February 2014, the Company resubmitted its NDA to the FDA. As previously disclosed, both FDA approval and a separate scheduling









determination by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration are required before Merck can introduce suvorexant in the United States. Insomnia is a condition characterized by difficulty falling asleep and/or staying asleep. The Company has submitted a new drug application for suvorexant to the health authorities in Japan and is continuing with plans to seek approval for suvorexant in other countries around the world.

MK-8616, sugammadex sodium injection, is an investigational agent for the reversal of neuromuscular blockade induced by rocuronium or vecuronium (neuromuscular blocking agents). Neuromuscular blockade is used in anesthesiology to induce muscle relaxation during surgery. In September 2013, Merck announced that it had received a CRL from the FDA for the resubmission of the NDA for sugammadex sodium injection. The FDA’s letter raised concerns about operational aspects of a hypersensitivity study that the agency had requested in 2008. To address the CRL, the Company is conducting a hypersensitivity study and anticipates filing an NDA resubmission with the FDA in 2014. Sugammadex sodium injection is approved and has been launched in many countries outside of the United States where it is marketed asBridion.

MK-8109, vintafolide, is an investigational cancer candidate under review by the EMA. As part of an exclusive license agreement with Endocyte, Inc. (“Endocyte”), Merck is responsible for the development and worldwide commercialization of vintafolide in oncology. The EMA accepted the MAA filings for vintafolide and Endocyte’s investigational companion diagnostic imaging agent, etarfolatide, for the targeted treatment of patients with folate-receptor positive platinum-resistant ovarian cancer in combination with pegylated liposomal doxorubicin. Both vintafolide and etarfolatide have been granted orphan drug status by the EC. Vintafolide is in Phase 3 development in the United States.

MK-7009, vaniprevir, is an investigational, oral twice-daily protease inhibitor for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C virus (“HCV”) infection under review in Japan.

In addition to the candidates under regulatory review, the Company has 12 drug candidates in Phase 3 development targeting a broad range of diseases. The Company anticipates filing an NDA or a BLA, as applicable, with the FDA with respect to several of these candidates in 2014.

MK-3475, an investigational anti-PD-1 immunotherapy, is currently being evaluated for the treatment of patients with advanced melanoma and other tumor types. In January 2014, the Company announced it has started a rolling submission to the FDA of a BLA for MK-3475 for patients with advanced melanoma who have previously been treated with ipilimumab. A rolling submission allows completed portions of the application to be submitted and reviewed by the FDA on an ongoing basis. The Company expects to complete the application in the first half of 2014. In April 2013, Merck announced that MK-3475 received a Breakthrough Therapy designation for advanced melanoma from the FDA. As noted above, the designation of an investigational drug as a Breakthrough Therapy is intended to expedite the development and review of a candidate that is planned for use, alone or in combination, to treat a serious or life-threatening disease or condition when preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the drug may demonstrate substantial improvement over existing therapies on one or more clinically significant endpoints.

The MK-3475 clinical development program also includes studies across a broad range of cancer types including: bladder, colorectal, gastric, head and neck, melanoma, non-small cell lung, renal, triple negative breast and hematological malignancies. In addition, the Company has announced four collaborations with other pharmaceutical companies to evaluate novel combination regimens with MK-3475.

MK-0822, odanacatib, is an oral, once-weekly investigational treatment for patients with osteoporosis. Osteoporosis is a disease that reduces bone density and strength and results in an increased risk of bone fractures. Odanacatib is a cathepsin K inhibitor that selectively inhibits the cathepsin K enzyme. Cathepsin K is known to play a central role in the function of osteoclasts, which are cells that break down existing bone tissue, particularly the protein components of bone. Inhibition of cathepsin K is a novel approach to the treatment of osteoporosis. In July 2012, Merck announced an update on the Phase 3 trial assessing fracture risk reduction with odanacatib. The independent Data Monitoring Committee (the “DMC”) for the study completed its first planned interim analysis for efficacy and recommended that the study be closed early due to robust efficacy and a favorable benefit-risk profile. The DMC noted that safety issues remain in certain selected areas and made recommendations with respect to following up on them. On February 1, 2013, Merck announced that it had recently received and was reviewing safety and efficacy data from the Phase 3 trial. As a result of its review of this data, the Company concluded that review of additional data from the previously planned, ongoing extension study was warranted and that filing an application for approval with the FDA









should be delayed. As previously announced, the Company is conducting a blinded extension of the trial in approximately 8,200 women, which will provide additional safety and efficacy data. Merck continues to anticipate that it will file applications for approval of odanacatib in 2014 with additional data from the extension trial. The Company continues to believe that odanacatib will have the potential to address unmet medical needs in patients with osteoporosis.

V419 is an investigational hexavalent pediatric combination vaccine, which contains components of current vaccines, designed to help protect against six potentially serious diseases — diphtheria, tetanus, whooping cough (Bordetella pertussis), polio (poliovirus types 1, 2, and 3), invasive disease caused byHaemophilus influenzaetype b, and hepatitis B — that is being developed in collaboration with Sanofi-Pasteur. The Company continues to anticipate filing a BLA for V419 with the FDA in 2014.

MK-0859, anacetrapib, is an investigational inhibitor of the cholesteryl ester transfer protein (“CETP”) that is being investigated in lipid management to raise HDL-C and reduce LDL-C. Anacetrapib is being evaluated in a large, event-driven cardiovascular clinical outcomes trial REVEAL (Randomized EValuation of the Effects of Anacetrapib Through Lipid-modification) involving patients with preexisting vascular disease that is predicted to be completed in 2017.

MK-8931 is Merck’s novel investigational oral ß-amyloid precursor protein site-cleaving enzyme (“BACE”) inhibitor for the treatment of Alzheimer’s disease being evaluated in a Phase 2/3 clinical trial (EPOCH) designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of MK-8931 versus placebo in patients with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer’s disease. Based on a positive DMC recommendation made following a planned analysis of interim safety data that included a safety cohort of 200 patients treated with MK-8931 for at least three months, the Company recently began enrolling patients in the Phase 3 portion of the trial, as well as a new Phase 3 trial (APECS) designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of MK-8931 versus placebo in patients with amnestic mild cognitive impairment due to Alzheimer’s disease, also known as prodromal Alzheimer’s disease.

MK-3415A, actoxumab/bezlotoxumab, an investigational candidate for the prevention ofClostridium difficileinfection recurrence, is a combination of two monoclonal antibodies used to treat patients with a single infusion.

MK-3102, omarigliptin, is an investigational once-weekly dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (“DPP-4”) inhibitor in development for the treatment of type 2 diabetes.

MK-8835, ertugliflozin, is an investigational oral sodium glucose cotransporter (“SGLT2”) inhibitor being evaluated for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. During 2013, the Company entered into a worldwide (except Japan) collaboration agreement with Pfizer Inc. for the development and commercialization of ertugliflozin.

MK-1293 is an insulin glargine candidate for the treatment of patients with type 1 and type 2 diabetes. In February 2014, the Company announced that it had expanded its collaboration with Samsung Bioepis to develop, manufacture and commercialize MK-1293. Under the terms of the agreement, the companies will collaborate on clinical development, regulatory filings and manufacturing. If approved, Merck will commercialize this candidate.

V212 is an inactivated VZV vaccine in development for the prevention of herpes zoster. The Company is conducting two Phase 3 trials, one in autologous hematopoietic cell transplant patients and the other in patients with solid tumor malignancies undergoing chemotherapy and hematological malignancies.

MK-3222, tildrakizumab, is an anti-interleukin-23 monoclonal antibody candidate being investigated for the treatment of psoriasis.

MK-5172/MK-8742, an all-oral combination regimen in Phase 2 development consisting of MK-5172, an investigational HCV NS3/4A protease inhibitor, and MK-8742, an investigational HCV NS5A replication complex inhibitor, was granted a Breakthrough Therapy designation in October 2013 by the FDA for treatment of chronic HCV infection. MK-5172 and MK-8742 are being investigated in a broad clinical program that includes studies in patients with multiple HCV genotypes who are treatment-naïve, treatment failures as well as other important HCV subpopulations such as patients with cirrhosis and those co-infected with HIV.

MK-8175A, NOMAC/E2, which is being marketed asZoelyin the EU, is an investigational oral contraceptive for use by women to prevent pregnancy. In November 2011, Merck received a CRL from the FDA for NOMAC/E2. Merck has made the decision to discontinue the Phase 3 clinical trial for NOMAC/E2 being conducted in the United States. This decision is not based on any new safety or efficacy findings.









In May 2013, the Company provided an update on the clinical program for preladenant, Merck’s investigational adenosine A2A receptor antagonist for the treatment of Parkinson’s disease. An initial review of data from three separate Phase 3 trials did not provide evidence of efficacy for preladenant compared with placebo. Based on these results, Merck has taken steps to discontinue the extension phases of these studies and no longer plans to pursue regulatory filings for preladenant. The decision to discontinue these studies was not based on any safety finding. The Company recorded an impairment charge of $181 million in 2013 related to the discontinuation of the clinical development program for preladenant.

The chart below reflects the Company’s research pipeline as of February 21, 2014. Candidates shown in Phase 3 include specific products and the date such candidate entered into Phase 3 development. Candidates shown in Phase 2 include the most advanced compound with a specific mechanism or, if listed compounds have the same mechanism, they are each currently intended for commercialization in a given therapeutic area. Small molecules and biologics are given MK-number designations and vaccine candidates are given V-number designations. Except as otherwise noted, candidates in Phase 1, additional indications in the same therapeutic area and additional claims, line extensions or formulations for in-line products are not shown.







Phase 2Phase 3 (Phase 3 entry date)Under Review

AllergyMK-8237, Immunotherapy(1)Alzheimer’s DiseaseMK-7622AsthmaMK-1029Bacterial InfectionMK-7655CancerMK-0646 (dalotuzumab)MK-2206CMV Prophylaxis in Transplant PatientsMK-8228 (letermovir)Contraception, Medicated IUSMK-8342Contraception, Next Generation RingMK-8175AMK-8342BHepatitis CMK-5172MK-8742HIVMK-1439 (doravirine)Non-Small Cell Lung CancerMK-3475(2,3)Pneumoconjugate VaccineV114Rheumatoid ArthritisMK-8457AtherosclerosisMK-0859 (anacetrapib) (May 2008)Alzheimer’s DiseaseMK-8931 (December 2013)Clostridium difficileInfectionMK-3415A (actoxumab/bezlotoxumab)(November 2011)Diabetes MellitusMK-3102 (omarigliptin) (September 2012)MK-8835 (ertugliflozin) (November 2013)MK-1293 (February 2014)Herpes ZosterV212 (inactivated VZV vaccine) (December 2010)MelanomaMK-3475 (August 2013)(2,4)OsteoporosisMK-0822 (odanacatib) (September 2007)Pediatric Hexavalent Combination VaccineV419 (April 2011)Platinum-Resistant Ovarian CancerMK-8109 (vintafolide) (U.S.) (April 2011)PsoriasisMK-3222 (tildrakizumab) (December 2012)AllergyMK-7243, Grass pollen (U.S.)(1)MK-3641, Ragweed (U.S.)(1)FertilityMK-8962 (corifollitropin alfa injection) (U.S.)Hepatitis CMK-7009 (vaniprevir) (Japan)HPV-Related CancersV503 (HPV vaccine (9 valent)) (U.S.)InsomniaMK-4305 (suvorexant) (U.S.)(5)Neuromuscular Blockade ReversalMK-8616 (sugammadex sodium injection)(U.S.)(6)Platinum-Resistant Ovarian CancerMK-8109 (vintafolide) (EU)ThrombosisMK-5348 (vorapaxar) (U.S./EU)

Footnotes:(1)North American rights only.(2)A new nonproprietary name for MK-3475 is under review.(3)Phase 2/3 adaptive design.(4)In January 2014, the Company announced it has started a rolling submission to the FDA of a BLA for MK-3475 for patients with advanced melanoma who have previously been treated with ipilimumab.(5)In June 2013, Merck received a CRL from the FDA for suvorexant (MK-4305). In February 2014, the Company resubmitted its NDA to the FDA.(6)In September 2013, Merck received a CRL from the FDA for the resubmission of the NDA for sugammadex sodium injection (MK-8616). To address the CRL, the Company is conducting a hypersensitivity study and anticipates filing an NDA resubmission with the FDA in 2014..





Employees

As of December 31, 2013, the Company had approximately 76,000 employees worldwide, with approximately 29,100 employed in the United States, including Puerto Rico. Approximately 32% of worldwide









employees of the Company are represented by various collective bargaining groups. In addition, the Company’s joint ventures in China and Brazil, which are included in the consolidated results of Merck, had about 1,300 employees.

2013 Restructuring Program

In October 2013, the Company announced a new global restructuring program (the “2013 Restructuring Program”) as part of a global initiative to sharpen its commercial and research and development focus. As part of the new program, the Company expects to reduce its total workforce by approximately 8,500 positions. These workforce reductions will primarily come from the elimination of positions in sales, administrative and headquarters organizations, as well as research and development. The Company will also reduce its global real estate footprint and continue to improve the efficiency of its manufacturing and supply network. The Company will continue to hire employees in strategic growth areas of the business as necessary.

Merger Restructuring Program

In 2010, subsequent to the Merck and Schering-Plough merger (the “Merger”), the Company commenced actions under a global restructuring program (the “Merger Restructuring Program”) designed to streamline the cost structure of the combined company. Further actions under this program were initiated in 2011. The actions under this program primarily reflect the elimination of positions in sales, administrative and headquarters organizations, as well as from the sale or closure of certain manufacturing and research and development sites and the consolidation of office facilities. Since inception of the Merger Restructuring Program through December 31, 2013, Merck has eliminated approximately 26,880 positions comprised of employee separations, as well as the elimination of contractors and vacant positions. Approximately 6,300 position eliminations remain pending under this program and an older program as of December 31, 2013. The restructuring actions under the Merger Restructuring Program were substantially completed by the end of 2013, with the exception of certain actions, principally manufacturing-related. Subsequent to the Merger, the Company has rationalized a number of manufacturing sites worldwide. The remaining actions under this program will result in additional manufacturing facility rationalizations, which are expected to be substantially completed by 2016.



Environmental Matters

The Company believes that there are no compliance issues associated with applicable environmental laws and regulations that would have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company is also remediating environmental contamination resulting from past industrial activity at certain of its sites. Expenditures for remediation and environmental liabilities were $20 million in 2013, $14 million in 2012 and $25 million in 2011, and are estimated at $117 million in the aggregate for the years 2014 through 2018. These amounts do not consider potential recoveries from other parties. The Company has taken an active role in identifying and providing for these costs and, in management’s opinion, the liabilities for all environmental matters, which are probable and reasonably estimable, have been accrued and totaled $213 million at December 31, 2013. Although it is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of these environmental matters, or the ultimate costs of remediation, management does not believe that any reasonably possible expenditures that may be incurred in excess of the liabilities accrued should exceed $84 million in the aggregate. Management also does not believe that these expenditures should have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources for any year.

Merck believes that climate change could present risks to its business. Some of the potential impacts of climate change to its business include increased operating costs due to additional regulatory requirements, physical risks to the Company’s facilities, water limitations and disruptions to its supply chain. These potential risks are integrated into the Company’s business planning including investment in reducing energy, water use and greenhouse gas emissions. The Company does not believe these risks are material to its business at this time.



Geographic Area Information

The Company’s operations outside the United States are conducted primarily through subsidiaries. Sales worldwide by subsidiaries outside the United States were 59% of sales in 2013, 57% of sales in 2012 and 57% of sales in 2011.

The Company’s worldwide business is subject to risks of currency fluctuations, governmental actions and other governmental proceedings abroad. The Company does not regard these risks as a deterrent to further expansion









of its operations abroad. However, the Company closely reviews its methods of operations and adopts strategies responsive to changing economic and political conditions.

Merck has expanded its operations in countries located in Latin America, the Middle East, Africa, Eastern Europe and Asia Pacific. Business in these developing areas, while sometimes less stable, offers important opportunities for growth over time.

Financial information about geographic areas of the Company’s business is provided in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” below.



Available Information

The Company’s Internet website address iswww.merck.com.The Company will make available, free of charge at the “Investors” portion of its website, its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).

The Company’s corporate governance guidelines and the charters of the Board of Directors’ four standing committees are available on the Company’s website atwww.merck.com/about/leadershipand all such information is available in print to any stockholder who requests it from the Company.



