Item 1.Business.



On November 3, 2009, Merck & Co., Inc. (“Old
    Merck”) and Schering-Plough Corporation
    (“Schering-Plough”) completed their
    previously-announced merger (the “Merger”). In the
    Merger, Schering-Plough acquired all of the shares of Old Merck,
    which became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Schering-Plough and
    was renamed Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp. Schering-Plough
    continued as the surviving public company and was renamed
    Merck & Co., Inc. (“New Merck” or the
    “Company”). However, for accounting purposes only, the
    Merger was treated as an acquisition with Old Merck considered
    the accounting acquirer. Accordingly, the accompanying financial
    statements reflect Old Merck’s stand-alone operations as
    they existed prior to the completion of the Merger. The results
    of Schering-Plough’s business have been included in New
    Merck’s financial statements only for periods subsequent to
    the completion of the Merger. Therefore, New Merck’s
    financial results for 2009 do not reflect a full year of legacy
    Schering-Plough operations. References in this report and in the
    accompanying financial statements to “Merck” for
    periods prior to the Merger refer to Old Merck and for periods
    after the completion of the Merger to New Merck.



Over-the-Counter



For financial information and other information about the
    Pharmaceutical segment, see Item 7. “Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations” and Item 8. “Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data” below.



All product or service marks appearing in type form different
    from that of the surrounding text are trademarks or service
    marks owned, licensed to, promoted or distributed by Merck, its
    subsidiaries or affiliates, except as noted.CozaarandHyzaarare registered trademarks of E.I. du Pont de
    Nemours and Company, Wilmington, DE. All other trademarks or
    services marks are those of their respective owners.



Overview



As discussed above, the Merger was completed on November 3,
    2009.  In the Merger, Old Merck shareholders received one share
    of common stock of New Merck for each share of Old Merck stock
    that they owned, and Schering-Plough shareholders received
    0.5767 of a share of common stock of New Merck and $10.50 in
    cash for each share of Schering-Plough stock that they owned.
    The consideration in the Merger was valued at $49.6 billion in
    the aggregate. Schering-Plough was Old Merck’s long-term
    partner in the Merck/Schering-Plough cholesterol partnership
    (the “MSP Partnership”). The cash portion of the
    consideration was funded with a





combination of existing cash, including proceeds from the sale
    of Old Merck’s interest in Merial Limited, the sale or
    redemption of investments and the issuance of debt.



The combined company has a research and development pipeline
    with greater depth and breadth and many promising drug
    candidates, a significantly broader portfolio of medicines and
    an expanded presence in key international markets, particularly
    in high-growth emerging markets. The Company anticipates that
    the efficiencies gained from the Merger will allow it to invest
    in promising pipeline candidates, as well as strategic external
    research and development opportunities.



The combination increased the Company’s pipeline of early,
    mid- and late stage product candidates, including a significant
    increase in the number of potential medicines the Company has in
    Phase III development to 19 candidates. Additionally, a
    number of candidates are currently under review in the United
    States and internationally.



The Merger also is expected to accelerate the expansion into
    therapeutic areas that Old Merck has focused on in recent years
    with the addition of Schering-Plough’s established presence
    and expertise in oncology, neuroscience and novel biologics.
    Further, the Merger is expected to broaden the Company’s
    commercial portfolio with leading franchises in key therapeutic
    areas, including cardiovascular, respiratory, oncology,
    neuroscience, infectious diseases, immunology and women’s
    health. Additionally, the combined company is expected to
    realize potential benefits from its animal health business and
    portfolio of consumer health brands, includingClaritin,
    CoppertoneandDr. Scholl’s. Many of the
    legacy Schering-Plough’s products are expected to have long
    periods of marketing exclusivity and, by leveraging the combined
    company’s expanded product offerings, the Company expects
    to benefit from additional revenue growth opportunities. For
    example, the combined company is expected to have expanded
    opportunities for life-cycle management through the introduction
    of potential new combinations and formulations of existing
    products of the two legacy companies. Also, the Company will
    have an expanded global presence and a more geographically
    diverse revenue base. Schering-Plough’s significant
    international presence will accelerate Old Merck’s own
    international growth efforts.



Remicade

,

Temodar

,

Nasonex

PegIntron

alpha-2b)

Zetia

Vytorin

Zetia

Vytorin

Equity income from
    affiliates

Sales

Januvia

Janumet

Isentress

Singulair

Varivax

Pneumovax

Fosamax

Fosamax

Fosamax Plus D

Gardasil

Cosopt

Trusopt

RotaTeq





children,Zocor(simvastatin),the Company’s
    statin for modifying cholesterol, andPrimaxin(imipenem
    and cilastatin sodium) for the treatment of bacterial infections.



As a result of the Merger, the Company expects to achieve
    substantial cost savings across all areas, including from
    consolidation in both sales and marketing and research and
    development, the application of the Company’s lean
    manufacturing and sourcing strategies to the expanded
    operations, and the full integration of the MSP Partnership.





The Company expects this first phase of the Merger Restructuring
    Program to yield annual savings in 2012 of approximately
    $2.6 billion to $3.0 billion. These anticipated
    savings relate only to the first phase of the Merger
    Restructuring Program and therefore are only a portion of the
    estimated $3.5 billion of incremental annual savings
    originally disclosed when the Merger was announced. The Company
    expects that additional savings will be generated by subsequent
    phases of the Merger Restructuring Program that will be
    announced later this year, as well as by non-restructuring
    related activities, such as procurement savings initiatives.
    These cost savings, which are expected to come from all areas of
    the Company’s pharmaceutical business, are in addition to
    the previously announced ongoing cost reduction initiatives at
    both legacy companies.



As a result of the Merger, the Company obtained a controlling
    interest in the MSP Partnership and it is now owned 100% by the
    Company. Accordingly, the Company was required to remeasure
    Merck’s previously held equity interest in the MSP
    Partnership at its merger-date fair value and recognize the
    resulting gain in earnings. As a result, the Company recorded a
    gain of $7.5 billion recognized inOther (income)
    expense, netin 2009. Also during 2009, Old Merck sold its
    50% interest in Merial Limited (“Merial”) to
    sanofi-aventis for $4 billion in cash. The sale resulted in
    the recognition of a $3.2 billion gain reflected inOther (income) expense, netin 2009. See Note 10 to
    the consolidated financial statements in Item 8.
    “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” below
    for further information.



Earnings per common share (“EPS”) assuming dilution
    for 2009 were $5.65, which reflect a net impact of $2.40
    resulting from gains related to the MSP Partnership and the sale
    of Merial, partially offset by increased expenses from the
    amortization of purchase accounting adjustments, restructuring
    and merger-related costs. EPS in 2009 were also affected by the
    dilutive impact of shares issued in the Merger.





Product
    Sales



Sales(1)of

    the Company’s products were as follows:



($ in millions)200920082007Pharmaceutical:Bone, Respiratory, Immunology and DermatologySingulair$4,659.7$4,336.9$4,266.3Fosamax1,099.81,552.73,049.0Propecia440.3429.1405.4Remicade430.7——Arcoxia357.5377.3329.1Nasonex164.9——Clarinex100.6——Asmanex37.0——CardiovascularVytorin440.884.284.3Zetia402.96.46.5Integrilin45.9——Diabetes and ObesityJanuvia1,922.11,397.1667.5Janumet658.4351.186.4Infectious DiseaseIsentress751.8361.141.3Primaxin688.9760.4763.5Cancidas616.7596.4536.9Invanz292.9265.0190.2Crixivan/Stocrin206.1275.1310.2PegIntron148.7——Avelox66.2——Rebetol36.1——Mature BrandsCozaar/Hyzaar3,560.73,557.73,350.1Zocor558.4660.1876.5Vasotec/Vaseretic310.8356.7494.6Proscar290.9323.5411.0Claritin Rx71.1——Proventil26.2——Neurosciences and OphthalmologyMaxalt574.5529.2467.3Cosopt/Trusopt503.5781.2786.8Remeron38.5——Subutex/Suboxone36.3——OncologyEmend313.1259.7201.7Temodar188.1——Caelyx46.5——Intron A38.4——Vaccines(2)ProQuad/M-M-R II/Varivax1,368.51,268.51,347.1Gardasil1,118.41,402.81,480.6RotaTeq521.9664.5524.7Pneumovax345.6249.3233.2Zostavax277.4312.4236.0Women’s Health and EndocrineFollistim/Puregon96.5——NuvaRing88.3——Other
    Pharmaceutical(3)1,294.9922.91,136.625,236.522,081.322,282.8Other segment
    revenues(4)2,114.01,694.11,848.1Total segment revenues27,350.523,775.424,130.9Other(5)77.874.966.8$27,428.3$23,850.3$24,197.7







(1)Sales of legacy Schering-Plough products only reflect results
    for the post-Merger period through December 31, 2009. Sales
    of MSP Partnership productsZetiaandVytorinrepresent sales for the post-Merger period through
    December 31, 2009. Prior to the Merger, sales ofZetiaandVytorinwere primarily recognized by the MSP
    Partnership and the results of Old Merck’s interest in the
    MSP Partnership were recorded inEquity income from
    affiliates.Sales ofZetiaandVytorinin 2008
    and 2007 reflect Old Merck’s sales of these products in
    Latin America which was not part of the MSP Partnership.



(2)These amounts do not reflect sales of vaccines sold in most
    major European markets through the Company’s joint venture,
    Sanofi Pasteur MSD, the results of which are reflected inEquity income from affiliates.These amounts do, however,
    reflect supply sales to Sanofi Pasteur MSD.



(3)Other pharmaceutical primarily includes sales of other human
    pharmaceutical products, including products within the
    franchises not listed separately.



(4)Reflects other non-reportable segments, including animal
    health and consumer health care, and revenue from the
    Company’s relationship with AZLP primarily relating to
    sales ofNexium,as well asPrilosec.Revenue from
    AZLP was $1.4 billion, $1.6 billion and
    $1.7 billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.



(5)Other revenues are primarily comprised of miscellaneous
    corporate revenues, third party manufacturing sales, sales
    related to divested products or businesses and other supply
    sales not included in segment results.







Pharmaceutical

The Company’s pharmaceutical products include therapeutic
    and preventive agents, generally sold by prescription, for the
    treatment of human disorders. Among these are:



Bone, Respiratory, Immunology and Dermatology:Singulair;Remicade;Fosamax; Nasonex;Propecia(finasteride), a product for the treatment of male pattern
    hair loss;Clarinex(desloratadine), a non-sedating
    antihistamine for the treatment of allergic rhinitis;Arcoxia(etoricoxib) for the treatment of arthritis and
    pain; andAsmanex Twisthaler(mometasone furoate
    inhalation powder), an oral dry-powder corticosteroid inhaler
    for first-line maintenance treatment of asthma.



Cardiovascular Disease:Zetia(marketed asEzetroloutside the United States);Vytorin(marketed asInegyoutside the United States) andIntegrilin(eptifibatide) Injection, a platelet receptor
    GP IIb/IIIa inhibitor for the treatment of patients with acute
    coronary syndrome and those undergoing percutaneous coronary
    intervention in the United States, as well as for the prevention
    of early myocardial infarction in patients with acute coronary
    syndrome in most countries.



Diabetes and Obesity:JanuviaandJanumet.



Infectious Disease:Isentress;Primaxin;
    Cancidas(caspofungin acetate), an anti-fungal product;PegIntron;Invanz(ertapenem sodium) for the
    treatment of certain infections;Avelox(moxifloxacin),
    which the Company only markets in the United States, a
    broad-spectrum fluoroquinolone antibiotic for certain
    respiratory and skin infections;Crixivan(indinavir
    sulfate) andStocrin(efavirenz), antiretroviral
    therapies for the treatment of HIV infection; andRebetol(ribavirin, USP) Capsules and Oral Solution for use in
    combination withPegIntronorIntron A(interferonalpha-2b,recombinant) for treating chronic hepatitis C.



Mature Brands:Cozaar(losartan potassium);Hyzaar(losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide;,Vasotec(enalapril maleate) andVaseretic(enalapril maleate-hydrochlorothiazide),the
    Company’s most significant hypertensionand/orheart
    failure products; Zocor; Proscar(finasteride), a urology
    product for the treatment of symptomatic benign prostate
    enlargement; Claritin Rx;andProventil HFA(albuterol) inhalation aerosol for the relief of
    bronchospasm in patients 12 years or older.



Neurosciences and Ophthalmology:Maxalt(rizatriptan benzoate),an acute migraine product;CosoptandTrusopt,Merck’s largest-selling
    ophthalmological products;Remeron(mirtazapine), an
    antidepressant;Subutex, a sublingual tablet formulation
    of buprenorphine; andSuboxone, a sublingual tablet
    combination of buprenorphine and naloxone, marketed by the
    Company in certain countries outside the United States for the
    treatment of opiate addiction.



Oncology:Temodar/Temodal;Emend(aprepitant) for the prevention of chemotherapy-induced and
    post-operative nausea and vomiting;Caelyx(pegylated
    liposomal doxorubicin hydrochloride), a long-circulating
    formulation of the cancer drug doxorubicin marketed by the
    Company outside the United States for the treatment of certain
    ovarian cancers, Kaposi’s sarcoma and metastatic breast
    cancer; andIntron Afor Injection, marketed for chronic
    hepatitis B and C and numerous anticancer indications worldwide,
    including as adjuvant therapy for malignant melanoma.



Vaccines:M-M-RII (Measles, Mumps and Rubella
    Virus Vaccine Live), a vaccine against measles, mumps and
    rubella;ProQuad(Measles, Mumps, Rubella and Varicella
    Virus Vaccine Live), a pediatric combination vaccine against
    measles, mumps, rubella and varicella;Varivax;Gardasil; RotaTeq; Pneumovax;andZostavax(Zoster
    Vaccine Live).



Women’s Health:Follistim/Puregon(follitropin beta injection), a fertility treatment; andNuvaRing(etonogestrel/ethinyl estradiol), a vaginal
    contraceptive ring.



Animal
    Health

The Animal Health segment discovers, develops, manufactures and
    markets animal health products, including vaccines. Principal
    marketed products in this segment include:



Livestock Products:Nuflorantibiotic range for use in
    cattle and swine;Bovilis/Vistavaccine lines for
    infectious diseases in cattle;Banaminebovine and swine
    anti-inflammatory;Estrumatefor treatment of fertility





disorders in cattle;Regumate/Matrixfertility
    management for swine and horses;Resflorcombination
    broad-spectrum antibiotic and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory
    drug for bovine respiratory disease;ZilmaxandRevalorto improve production efficiencies in beef
    cattle;M+Pacswine pneumonia vaccine; andPorcilisvaccine line for infectious diseases in swine.



Poultry Products:Nobilis/Innovaxvaccine lines
    for poultry; andParacoxandCoccivaccoccidiosis
    vaccines.



Companion Animal Products:Nobivac/Continuumvaccine lines for flexible dog and cat vaccination;Otomax/Mometamax/Posatexear ointments for
    acute and chronic otitis;Caninsulin/Vetsulindiabetes mellitus treatment for dogs and cats;Panacur/Safeguardbroad-spectrum anthelmintic
    (de-wormer) for use in many animals; andScalibor/Exspotfor protecting against bites from
    fleas, ticks, mosquitoes and sandflies.



Aquaculture Products:Sliceparasiticide for sea lice in
    salmon;Aquavac/Norvaxvaccines against bacterial
    and viral disease in fish;Compact PDvaccine for salmon;
    andAquaflorantibiotic for farm-raised fish.



Consumer
    Health Care

The Consumer Health Care segment develops, manufactures and
    markets OTC, foot care and sun care products. Principal products
    in this segment include:



OTC Products:Claritinnon-drowsy antihistamines;MiraLAXtreatment for occasional constipation;Coricidin HBPdecongestant-free cold/flu medicine for
    people with high blood pressure;Afrinnasal decongestant
    spray; andCorrectollaxative tablets.



Foot Care:Dr. Scholl’sfoot care products;Lotrimintopical antifungal products; andTinactintopical antifungal products and foot and sneaker
    odor/wetness products.



Sun Care:Coppertonesun care lotions, sprays, dry oils
    and lip-protection products and sunless tanning products; andSolarcainesunburn relief products.



For a further discussion of sales of the Company’s
    products, see Item 7. “Management’s Discussion
    and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations” below.



Product
    Approvals



In July 2009, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
    (“FDA”) approved an expanded indication forIsentress. The broadened indication now includes use in
    the treatment of adult patients starting HIV-1 therapy for the
    first time (treatment-naïve), as well as in
    treatment-experienced adult patients.



In August 2009, the FDA approvedSaphris(asenapine)
    sublingual tablets for acute treatment of schizophrenia in
    adults and acute treatment of manic or mixed episodes associated
    with bipolar I disorder with or without psychotic features in
    adults.Saphriscan be used as a first-line treatment and
    is the first psychotropic drug to receive initial approval for
    both of these indications simultaneously.



In October 2009, the FDA approvedGardasilfor use in
    boys and men 9 through 26 years of age for the prevention
    of genital warts caused by HPV types 6 and 11, makingGardasilthe only HPV vaccine approved for use in males.Gardasilis also the only HPV vaccine that protects
    against HPV types 6 and 11 which cause approximately
    90 percent of all genital warts cases. In addition, on
    October 21, 2009, Old Merck announced that the
    U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s
    Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (“ACIP”)
    supports the permissive use ofGardasilfor boys and
    young men ages 9 to 26, which means thatGardasilmay be given to males ages 9 to 26 to reduce the
    likelihood of acquiring genital warts at the discretion of the
    patient’s health care provider. The ACIP also voted to
    recommend that funding be provided for the use ofGardasilin males through the Vaccines for Children program.



In October 2009, the European Commission (“EC”)
    approvedSimponi(golimumab), a once-monthly,
    subcutaneous treatment for certain inflammatory diseases.



In December 2009, the FDA approvedZegerid OTC(omeprazole 20 mg/sodium bicarbonate 1100 mg
    capsules) for OTC treatment of frequent heartburn.





In January 2010, Merck received EC approval ofElonva(corifollitropin alpha injection), a new fertility
    treatment.Elonvais indicated for controlled ovarian
    stimulation in combination with a GnRH antagonist for the
    development of multiple follicles in women participating in an
    assisted reproductive technology program.



Joint
    Ventures



Merck/Schering-Plough
    Partnership

In 2000, Old Merck and Schering-Plough (collectively, the
    “legacy companies”) entered into an agreement to
    create an equally-owned partnership to develop and market in the
    United States new prescription medicines for cholesterol
    management. In December 2001, the cholesterol-management
    partnership was expanded to include all the countries of the
    world, excluding Japan. In October 2002,Zetia, the first
    in a new class of cholesterol-lowering agents, was launched in
    the United States. In July 2004,Vytorin, a combination
    product containing the active ingredients of bothZetiaandZocor,was approved in the United States.



Vytorin



Vytorin

10/40 mg

Vytorin

Vytorin

Vytorin

Vytorin

Vytorin

Zetia



The Company is committed to working with regulatory agencies to
    further evaluate the available data and interpretations of those
    data; however, the Company does not believe that changes in the
    clinical use ofVytorinare warranted.





AstraZeneca
    LP

In 1982, Old Merck entered into an agreement with Astra AB
    (“Astra”) to develop and market Astra products in the
    United States. In 1994, Old Merck and Astra formed an equally
    owned joint venture that developed and marketed most of
    Astra’s new prescription medicines in the United States
    includingPrilosec (omeprazole), the first in a class of
    medications known as proton pump inhibitors, which slows the
    production of acid from the cells of the stomach lining.



In 1998, Old Merck and Astra restructured the joint venture
    whereby Old Merck acquired Astra’s interest in the joint
    venture, renamed KBI Inc. (“KBI”), and contributed
    KBI’s operating assets to a new U.S. limited
    partnership named Astra Pharmaceuticals, L.P. (the
    “Partnership”), in exchange for a 1% limited partner
    interest. Astra contributed the net assets of its wholly owned
    subsidiary, Astra USA, Inc., to the Partnership in exchange for
    a 99% general partner interest. The Partnership, renamed
    AstraZeneca LP (“AZLP”) upon Astra’s 1999 merger
    with Zeneca Group Plc (the “AstraZeneca merger”),
    became the exclusive distributor of the products for which KBI
    retained rights.



The Company earns certain Partnership returns as well as ongoing
    revenue based on sales of current and future KBI products. The
    Partnership returns include a priority return provided for in
    the Partnership Agreement, variable returns based, in part, upon
    sales of certain former Astra USA, Inc. products, and a
    preferential return representing the Company’s share of
    undistributed Partnership AZLP generally accepted accounting
    principles (“GAAP”) earnings. The AstraZeneca merger
    triggered a partial redemption in March 2008 of Old Merck’s
    interest in certain AZLP product rights. Upon this redemption,
    Old Merck received $4.3 billion from AZLP. This amount was
    based primarily on a multiple of Old Merck’s average annual
    variable returns derived from sales of the former Astra USA,
    Inc. products for the three years prior to the redemption (the
    “Limited Partner Share of Agreed Value”). Old Merck
    recorded a $1.5 billion pretax gain on the partial
    redemption in 2008. The partial redemption of Old Merck’s
    interest in the product rights did not result in a change in Old
    Merck’s 1% limited partnership interest. As described in
    Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations” below, after
    certain adjustments, Old Merck recorded an aggregate pretax gain
    of $2.2 billion in 2008.



Nexium

Prilosec

Nexium

Prilosec

Nexium

Prilosec

true-up



Sanofi
    Pasteur MSD

In 1994, Old Merck and Pasteur Mérieux Connaught (now
    Sanofi Pasteur S.A.) formed a joint venture to market human
    vaccines in Europe and to collaborate in the development of
    combination vaccines for distribution in the then existing EU
    and the European Free Trade Association. Old Merck and Sanofi
    Pasteur contributed, among other things, their European vaccine
    businesses for equal shares in the joint venture, known as
    Pasteur Mérieux MSD, S.N.C. (now Sanofi Pasteur MSD,
    S.N.C.). The joint venture maintains a presence, directly or
    through affiliates or branches, in Belgium, Italy, Germany,
    Spain, France, Austria, Ireland, Sweden, Portugal, the
    Netherlands, Switzerland and the United Kingdom and through
    distributors in the rest of its territory.





Johnson &
    JohnsonoMerck

    Consumer Pharmaceuticals Company

In 1989, Old Merck formed a joint venture with
    Johnson & Johnson to develop and market a broad range
    of nonprescription medicines for U.S. consumers. This 50%
    owned joint venture also includes Canada. Significant joint
    venture products arePepcid AC(famotidine), an OTC form
    of Old Merck’s ulcer medicationPepcid(famotidine),
    as well asPepcid Complete,an OTC product that combines
    the Company’s ulcer medication with antacids (calcium
    carbonate and magnesium hydroxide).



Merial
    Limited

In 1997, Old Merck and Rhône-Poulenc S.A. (now
    sanofi-aventis) combined their respective animal health
    businesses to form Merial Limited (“Merial”), a
    fully integrated animal health company, which was a stand-alone
    joint venture, 50% owned by each party. Merial provides a
    comprehensive range of pharmaceuticals and vaccines to enhance
    the health, well-being and performance of a wide range of animal
    species.



Other income (expense), net

true-up



Licenses



Remicade,

Simponi

Remicade

Simponi

Remicade

Simponi

Simponi

Simponi

Simponi

Simponi





Competition



The markets in which the Company conducts its business and the
    pharmaceutical industry are highly competitive and highly
    regulated. The Company’s operations may be affected by
    technological advances of competitors, industry consolidation,
    patents granted to competitors, competitive combination
    products, new products of competitors, new information from
    clinical trials of marketed products or post-marketing
    surveillance and generic competition as the Company’s
    products mature. In addition, patent positions are increasingly
    being challenged by competitors, and the outcome can be highly
    uncertain. An adverse result in a patent dispute can preclude
    commercialization of products or negatively affect sales of
    existing products and could result in the recognition of an
    impairment charge with respect to certain products. Competitive
    pressures have intensified as pressures in the industry have
    grown. The effect on operations of competitive factors and
    patent disputes cannot be predicted.



Pharmaceutical competition involves a rigorous search for
    technological innovations and the ability to market these
    innovations effectively. With its long-standing emphasis on
    research and development, the Company is well positioned to
    compete in the search for technological innovations. Additional
    resources to meet market challenges include quality control,
    flexibility to meet customer specifications, an efficient
    distribution system and a strong technical information service.
    The Company is active in acquiring and marketing products
    through external alliances, such as joint ventures, and licenses
    and has been refining its sales and marketing efforts to further
    address changing industry conditions. However, the introduction
    of new products and processes by competitors may result in price
    reductions and product displacements, even for products
    protected by patents. For example, the number of compounds
    available to treat a particular disease typically increases over
    time and can result in slowed sales growth for the
    Company’s products in that therapeutic category.



Global efforts toward healthcare cost containment continue to
    exert pressure on product pricing and access. In addressing cost
    containment pressure, the Company makes a continuing effort to
    demonstrate that its medicines provide value to patients and to
    those who pay for health care. In addition, pricing flexibility
    across the Company’s product portfolio has encouraged
    growing use of its medicines and mitigated the effects of
    increasing cost pressures on individual medicines.



Outside the United States, in difficult government budgetary
    environments, the Company has worked with payers to encourage
    allocation of scarce resources to optimize healthcare outcomes,
    limiting the potentially detrimental effects of government
    policies on sales growth and access to innovative medicines and
    vaccines, and to support the discovery and development of
    innovative products to benefit patients. The Company also is
    working with governments in many emerging markets in Eastern
    Europe, Latin America and Asia to encourage them to increase
    their investments in health and thereby improve their
    citizens’ access to medicines. In addition, certain
    countries within the EU, recognizing the economic importance of
    the research-based pharmaceutical industry and the value of
    innovative medicines to society, are working with industry
    representatives to improve the competitive climate through a
    variety of means including market deregulation.



The Company anticipates that the worldwide trend toward cost
    containment will continue, resulting in ongoing pressures on
    healthcare budgets. In the United States, major healthcare
    reform has been introduced and passed in both houses of
    Congress. A final revised bill which unifies both versions may
    be considered and adopted into law. The impact of such actions,
    as well as budget pressures on governments in the United States
    and other nations, cannot be predicted at this time. As the
    Company continues to successfully launch new products,
    contribute to health care debates and monitor reforms, its new
    products, policies and strategies should enable it to maintain a
    strong position in the changing economic environment.



Although no one can predict the outcome of these and other
    legislative, regulatory and advocacy initiatives, the Company
    believes that it is well positioned to respond to the evolving
    health care environment and market forces.



Access to
    Medicines



The Company is also committed to improving access to medicines
    and enhancing the quality of life for people around the world.
    To cite just one example, The African Comprehensive HIV/AIDS
    Partnerships in





Botswana, a partnership between the government of Botswana, the
    Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and The Merck Company
    Foundation/Merck & Co., Inc., is supporting
    Botswana’s response to HIV/AIDS through a comprehensive and
    sustainable approach to HIV prevention, care, treatment, and
    support.



To further catalyze access to HIV medicines in developing
    countries, the Company makes no profit on the sale of its
    current HIV/AIDS medicines in the world’s poorest countries
    and those hardest hit by the pandemic, and offers its HIV/AIDS
    medicines at significantly reduced prices to medium-income
    countries. In February 2007, Old Merck announced that it had
    again reduced the price ofStocrinin the least developed
    countries of the world and those hardest hit by the pandemic.
    Through these and other actions, the Company is working
    independently and with partners in both the public and private
    sectors to address the most critical barriers to access to
    medicines in the developing world. Addressing these barriers
    requires investments in education, training and health
    infrastructure and to improve capacity achieved through
    increased international assistance and sustainable financing.



In addition, Old Merck has committed to providingRotaTeqto the Global Alliance for Vaccines and
    Immunization-eligible countries at prices at which it does not
    profit. Also, in 2009, Old Merck and The Wellcome Trust
    established the MSD Wellcome Trust Hilleman Laboratories, a
    joint venture in India to develop vaccines for millions of
    people in some of the poorest areas of the world.



Government
    Regulation



The pharmaceutical industry is subject to regulation by
    regional, country, state and local agencies around the world. Of
    particular importance is the FDA in the United States, which
    administers requirements covering the testing, approval, safety,
    effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling, and marketing of
    prescription pharmaceuticals. In many cases, the FDA
    requirements have increased the amount of time and resources
    necessary to develop new products and bring them to market in
    the United States. In 1997, the Food and Drug Administration
    Modernization Act (the “FDA Modernization Act”) was
    passed and was the culmination of a comprehensive legislative
    reform effort designed to streamline regulatory procedures
    within the FDA and to improve the regulation of drugs, medical
    devices, and food. The legislation was principally designed to
    ensure the timely availability of safe and effective drugs and
    biologics by expediting the premarket review process for new
    products. A key provision of the legislation is the
    re-authorization of the Prescription Drug User Fee Act of 1992,
    which permits the continued collection of user fees from
    prescription drug manufacturers to augment FDA resources
    earmarked for the review of human drug applications. This helps
    provide the resources necessary to ensure the prompt approval of
    safe and effective new drugs.





For many years, the pharmaceutical industry has been under
    federal and state oversight with the approval process for new
    drugs, drug safety, advertising and promotion, drug purchasing
    and reimbursement programs, and formularies. The Company
    believes that it will continue to be able to conduct its
    operations, including the introduction of new drugs to the
    market, in this regulatory environment.



The Company continues to work with private and public payors to
    slow increases in healthcare spending. Also, U.S. federal
    and state governments have pursued methods to directly reduce
    the cost of drugs and vaccines for





which they pay. For example, federal laws require the Company to
    pay specified rebates for medicines reimbursed by Medicaid, to
    provide discounts for outpatient medicines purchased by certain
    Public Health Service entities and “disproportionate
    share” hospitals (hospitals meeting certain criteria), and
    to provide minimum discounts of 24% off of a defined
    “non-federal average manufacturer price” for purchases
    by certain components of the federal government such as the
    Department of Veterans Affairs and the Department of Defense.



Initiatives in some states seek rebates beyond the minimum
    required by Medicaid legislation, in some cases for patients
    beyond those who are eligible for Medicaid. Under the Federal
    Vaccines for Children entitlement program, the U.S. Centers
    for Disease Control and Prevention (“CDC”) funds and
    purchases recommended pediatric vaccines at a public sector
    price for the immunization of Medicaid-eligible, uninsured,
    Native American and certain underinsured children. Old Merck was
    awarded a CDC contract in 2009 for the supply of pediatric
    vaccines for the Vaccines for Children program.



Outside the United States, the Company encounters similar
    regulatory and legislative issues in most of the countries where
    it does business. There, too, the primary thrust of governmental
    inquiry and action is toward determining drug safety and
    effectiveness, often with mechanisms for controlling the prices
    of or reimbursement for prescription drugs and the profits of
    prescription drug companies. The EU has adopted directives
    concerning the classification, labeling, advertising, wholesale
    distribution and approval for marketing of medicinal products
    for human use. The Company’s policies and procedures are
    already consistent with the substance of these directives;
    consequently, it is believed that they will not have any
    material effect on the Company’s business.



In January 2008, the EC launched a sector inquiry in the
    pharmaceutical industry under the rules of EU competition law.
    As part of this inquiry, Old Merck’s offices in Germany
    were inspected by the authorities beginning in January 2008. The
    preliminary report of the EC was issued on November 28,
    2008, and following the public consultation period, the final
    report was issued in July 2009. The final report confirmed that
    there has been a decline in the number of novel medicines
    reaching the market and instances of delayed market entry of
    generic medicines and discussed industry practices that may have
    contributed to these phenomena. While the EC has issued further
    inquiries with respect to the subject of the investigation, the
    EC has not alleged that the Company or any of its subsidiaries
    have engaged in any unlawful practices.



The Company is subject to the jurisdiction of various regulatory
    agencies and is, therefore, subject to potential administrative
    actions. Such actions may include seizures of products and other
    civil and criminal sanctions. Under certain circumstances, the
    Company on its own may deem it advisable to initiate product
    recalls. The Company believes that it should be able to compete
    effectively within this environment.



Privacy
    and Data Protection



The Company is subject to a number of privacy and data
    protection laws and regulations globally. The legislative and
    regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues
    to evolve, and there has been an increasing attention to privacy
    and data protection issues with the potential to affect directly
    the Company’s business, including recently enacted laws and
    regulations in the United States and internationally requiring
    notification to individuals and government authorities of
    security breaches involving certain categories of personal
    information.



Distribution



The Company sells its human health pharmaceutical products
    primarily to drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals,
    government agencies and managed health care providers such as
    health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit managers and
    other institutions. Human health vaccines are sold primarily to
    physicians, wholesalers, physician distributors and government
    entities. The Company’s professional representatives
    communicate the effectiveness, safety and value of the
    Company’s pharmaceutical and vaccine products to health
    care professionals in private practice, group practices and
    managed care organizations. The Company’s professional
    representatives communicate the safety and value of the
    Company’s animal health products to veterinarians,
    distributors and animal producers. The Company’s OTC, foot
    care and sun care products are sold through wholesale and retail
    drug, food chain and mass merchandiser outlets.





Raw
    Materials



Raw materials and supplies, which are generally available from
    multiple sources, are purchased worldwide and are normally
    available in quantities adequate to meet the needs of the
    Company’s business.



Patents,
    Trademarks and Licenses



Patent protection is considered, in the aggregate, to be of
    material importance in the Company’s marketing of human
    health products in the United States and in most major foreign
    markets. Patents may cover productsper se,
    pharmaceutical formulations, processes for or intermediates
    useful in the manufacture of products or the uses of products.
    Protection for individual products extends for varying periods
    in accordance with the legal life of patents in the various
    countries. The protection afforded, which may also vary from
    country to country, depends upon the type of patent and its
    scope of coverage.



The FDA Modernization Act includes a Pediatric Exclusivity
    Provision that may provide an additional six months of market
    exclusivity in the United States for indications of new or
    currently marketed drugs if certain agreed upon pediatric
    studies are completed by the applicant. These exclusivity
    provisions were re-authorized by the Prescription Drug User Fee
    Act passed in September 2007. Current U.S. patent law
    provides additional patent term under Patent Term Restoration
    for periods when the patented product was under regulatory
    review before the FDA.





Patent portfolios developed for products introduced by the
    Company normally provide market exclusivity. The Company has the
    following key U.S. patent protection (including Patent Term
    Restoration and Pediatric Exclusivity) for major marketed
    products:



Product(1)Year of Expiration (in
    U.S.)Cozaar2010Hyzaar2010Crixivan2012 (compound)/2018 (formulation)Maxalt2012 (compound)/2014 (other)Singulair2012Cancidas2013 (compound)/2015 (composition)Propecia(2)2013 (formulation/use)Asmanex2014 (use)/2018 (formulation)Avelox2014Integrilin2014 (compound)/2015 (use/formulation)Nasonex2014 (use/formulation)/2018(formulation)Temodar(3)2014Emend2015Follistim/Puregon2015PegIntron2015 (conjugates)/2020 (Mature IFN-alpha)Zolinza2015Invanz2016 (compound)/2017 (composition)Zostavax2016Zetia/Vytorin2017NuvaRing2018 (delivery system)Noxafil2019RotaTeq2019Clarinex(4)2020 (formulation)Comvax2020 (method of making/vectors)Intron A2020Recombivax2020 (method of making/vectors)Saphris/Sycrest2020 (use/formulation) (subject to pending Patent Term
    Restoration application)Januvia/Janumet2022 (compound)/2026 (salt)Isentress2023Gardasil2026 (method of making/use/product by process)





(1)Compound patent unless otherwise noted.(2)By agreement, Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories may launch a
    generic on January 1, 2013.(3)In January 2010, a court held the patent forTemodarto be unenforceable. That decision is being appealed. See
    Item 3. “Legal Proceedings — Patent
    Litigation” below.(4)By virtue of litigation settlement, generics have been given
    the right to enter the market as of 2012.



While the expiration of a product patent normally results in a
    loss of market exclusivity for the covered pharmaceutical
    product, commercial benefits may continue to be derived from:
    (i) later-granted patents on processes and intermediates
    related to the most economical method of manufacture of the
    active ingredient of such product; (ii) patents relating to
    the use of such product; (iii) patents relating to novel
    compositions and formulations; and (iv) in the United
    States and certain other countries, market exclusivity that may
    be available under relevant law. The effect of product patent
    expiration on pharmaceutical products also depends upon many
    other factors such as the nature of the market and the position
    of the product in it, the growth of the market, the complexities
    and economics of the process for manufacture of the active
    ingredient of the product and the requirements of new drug
    provisions of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act or similar
    laws and regulations in other countries.





The patents that provide U.S. market exclusivity forCozaarandHyzaarexpire in April 2010. In
    addition, the patent forCozaarwill expire in a number
    of major European markets in March 2010.Hyzaarlost
    patent protection in major European markets in
    February 2010. The Company expects that sales of these
    products will decline rapidly after expiration of these patents,
    particularly in the United States since there are expected to be
    multiple sources of generic products at the time of patent
    expiry. In addition, the patent that provides U.S. market
    exclusivity forSingulairexpires in August 2012. The
    Company expects that within the two years following patent
    expiration, it will lose substantially all U.S. sales ofSingulair, with most of those declines coming in the
    first full year following patent expiration. Also, the patent
    forSingulairwill expire in a number of major European
    markets in August 2012 and the Company expects sales ofSingulairin those markets will decline significantly
    thereafter.



Additions to market exclusivity are sought in the United States
    and other countries through all relevant laws, including laws
    increasing patent life. Some of the benefits of increases in
    patent life have been partially offset by a general increase in
    the number of incentives for and use of generic products.
    Additionally, improvements in intellectual property laws are
    sought in the United States and other countries through reform
    of patent and other relevant laws and implementation of
    international treaties.



For further information with respect to the Company’s
    patents, see Item 1A. “Risk Factors” and
    Item 3. “Legal Proceedings — Patent
    Litigation” below.



Worldwide, all of the Company’s important products are sold
    under trademarks that are considered in the aggregate to be of
    material importance. Trademark protection continues in some
    countries as long as used; in other countries, as long as
    registered. Registration is for fixed terms and can be renewed
    indefinitely.



Royalties received during 2009 on patent and know-how licenses
    and other rights amounted to $218.9 million. Merck also
    paid royalties amounting to $1.27 billion in 2009 under
    patent and know-how licenses it holds.



Research
    and Development



The Company’s business is characterized by the introduction
    of new products or new uses for existing products through a
    strong research and development program. Approximately
    17,200 people are employed in the Company’s research
    activities. Research and development expenses (which included
    restructuring costs) were $5.8 billion in 2009,
    $4.8 billion in 2008 and $4.9 billion in 2007. The
    Company maintains its ongoing commitment to research over a
    broad range of therapeutic areas and clinical development in
    support of new products.



best-in-class



The integration plans for research and development are focused
    on integrating the research operations of the legacy companies,
    including providing an effective transition for employees,
    realizing projected merger synergies in the form of cost savings
    and revenue growth opportunities, and maintaining momentum in
    the Company’s late-stage pipeline. During 2009, Merck
    continued implementing a new model for its basic research global
    operating strategy at legacy Merck Research Laboratories sites.
    The new model will align franchise and function as well as align
    resources with disease area priorities and balance capacity
    across discovery phases and allow the Company to act upon those
    programs with the highest probability of success. Additionally,
    across all





disease area priorities, the Company’s strategy is designed
    to expand access to worldwide external science and incorporate
    external research as a key component of the Company’s early
    discovery pipeline in order to translate basic research
    productivity into late-stage clinical success.



The Company’s clinical pipeline includes candidates in
    multiple disease areas, including anemia, atherosclerosis,
    cancer, diabetes, heart disease, hypertension, infectious
    diseases, inflammatory/autoimmune diseases, migraine,
    neurodegenerative diseases, ophthalmics, osteoporosis,
    psychiatric diseases, respiratory disease and women’s
    health. The Company supplements its internal research with an
    aggressive licensing and external alliance strategy focused on
    the entire spectrum of collaborations from early research to
    late-stage compounds, as well as new technologies.



In the development of human health products, industry practice
    and government regulations in the United States and most
    foreign countries provide for the determination of effectiveness
    and safety of new chemical compounds through preclinical tests
    and controlled clinical evaluation. Before a new drug or vaccine
    may be marketed in the United States, recorded data on
    preclinical and clinical experience are included in the New Drug
    Application (“NDA”) for a drug or the Biologics
    License Application (“BLA”) for a vaccine or biologic
    submitted to the FDA for the required approval.





Vaccine development follows the same general pathway as for
    drugs. Preclinical testing focuses on the vaccine’s safety
    and ability to elicit a protective immune response
    (immunogenicity). Pre-marketing vaccine clinical trials are
    typically done in three phases. Initial Phase I clinical studies
    are conducted in normal subjects to evaluate the safety,
    tolerability and immunogenicity of the vaccine candidate.
    Phase II studies are dose-ranging studies. Finally,
    Phase III trials provide the necessary data on
    effectiveness and safety. If successful, the Company submits
    regulatory filings with the appropriate regulatory agencies.
    Also during this stage, the proposed manufacturing facility
    undergoes a pre-approval inspection during which production of
    the vaccine as it is in progress is examined in detail.



In the United States, the FDA review process begins once a
    complete NDA is submitted and received by the FDA. Pursuant to
    the Prescription Drug User Fee Act, the FDA review period
    targets for NDAs or supplemental NDAs is either six months, for
    priority review, or ten months, for a standard review. Within
    60 days after receipt of an NDA, the FDA determines if the
    application is sufficiently complete to permit a substantive
    review. The FDA also assesses, at that time, whether the
    application will be granted a priority review or standard
    review. Once the review timelines are defined, the FDA will
    generally act upon the application within those timelines,
    unless a major amendment has been submitted (either at the
    Company’s own initiative or the FDA’s request) to the
    pending application. If this occurs, the FDA may extend the
    review period to allow for review of the new information, but by
    no more than 180 days. Extensions to the review period are
    communicated to the Company. The FDA can act on an application
    by issuing an approval letter or a complete response letter.



Research
    and Development Update

In connection with the Merger, the Company is assessing its
    pipeline to identify the most promising, high-potential
    compounds for development. The Company has completed the
    prioritization of its clinical development





programs. The Company is continuing to work on the
    prioritization of its value adding programs related to currently
    marketed products and to its preclinical/discovery programs. The
    Company anticipates that the full prioritization process will be
    completed by the first half of 2010. In connection with this
    process, the Company may recognize non-cash impairment charges
    for the cancellation of certain legacy Schering-Plough pipeline
    programs that were measured at fair value and capitalized in
    connection with the Merger. These non-cash impairment charges,
    which are anticipated to be excluded from the Company’s
    non-GAAP earnings, could be material to the Company’s
    future GAAP earnings.



The Company currently has a number of candidates under
    regulatory review in the United States and internationally.
    Additionally, the Company has 19 drug candidates in
    Phase III development.



MK-6621, vernakalant (IV), is an investigational candidate for
    the treatment of atrial fibrillation currently undergoing
    regulatory review in the EU. In April 2009, Old Merck and
    Cardiome Pharma Corp. (“Cardiome”) announced a
    collaboration and license agreement for the development and
    commercialization of vernakalant which provides Merck exclusive
    rights outside of the United States, Canada and Mexico to the
    intravenous formulation of vernakalant. Vernakalent (oral) is
    currently in Phase II development. Merck has exclusive
    global rights to the oral formulation of vernakalent for the
    maintenance of normal heart rhythm in patients with atrial
    fibrillation.



SCH 418131, MFF, is a combination of two previously approved
    drugs for the treatment of asthma: mometasone (Asmanex)
    and formoterol (Foradil). The Company is aiming to create
    a new option for patients by bringing these two key treatments
    together. In July 2009,Schering-Ploughannounced that it had filed an NDA with the FDA for MFF. MFF is
    also currently under regulatory review in the EU.



SCH 900121, NOMAC/E2, is an oral contraceptive that combines a
    selective progestin with estradiol, the estrogen that women
    produce naturally. The drug is currently under regulatory review
    in the EU. It is in Phase III development for the
    U.S. market.



SCH 900274,Saphris,asenapine, a central nervous system
    compound for bipolar I disorder and schizophrenia, is currently
    undergoing regulatory review in the EU. The FDA approvedSaphrisin August 2009.



SCH 900616,Bridion,sugammadex, is a medication designed
    to rapidly reverse the effects of certain muscle relaxants used
    as part of general anesthesia to ensure patients remain immobile
    during surgical procedures. It differs from other reversal
    agents that can only be administered once the muscle relaxant
    begins to wear off.Bridionhas received regulatory
    approval in the EU, Australia, New Zealand and Japan, and is
    under regulatory review in other markets, including the United
    States. Prior to the Merger, Schering-Plough received a complete
    response letter from the FDA forBridion.Following
    further communication from the FDA, the Company is assessing the
    agency’s feedback in order to determine a new timetable for
    response.



SCH 503034, boceprevir, is a hepatitis C protease inhibitor
    currently under development. Boceprevir is fully enrolled in its
    Phase III program, which the Company expects to conclude in
    mid-2010. The Company expects to submit an NDA to the FDA for
    boceprevir by the end of 2010 for both treatment-experienced and
    treatment-naïve patients with hepatitis C.



MK-8669, ridaforolimus, is a novel mTOR (mammalian target of
    rapamycin) inhibitor being evaluated for the treatment of
    cancer. The drug candidate is being jointly developed and
    commercialized with ARIAD Pharmaceuticals, Inc., under an
    agreement entered into in 2007. A Phase III study (SUCCEED)
    in patients with metastatic soft-tissue or bone sarcomas is
    underway. The Company continues to anticipate filing an NDA for
    ridaforolimus with the FDA in 2010, subject to a review of the
    results from the planned interim analysis of SUCCEED.



SCH 697243, an allergy immunotherapy sublingual tablet
    (“AIT”) for grass pollen allergy, is being developed
    by the Company. In November 2009, SCH 697243 met the primary
    endpoint in a Phase III study of adult subjects in the
    United States with a history of grass pollen induced
    rhinoconjunctivitis with or without asthma. The investigational
    grass AIT treatment is designed to work by inducing a protective
    immune response against grass pollen allergy and providing
    sustained prevention of allergy symptoms, treating both the
    symptoms and the underlying cause of the disease.



SCH 039641, an AIT for ragweed allergy, is also in
    Phase III development for the U.S. market.





SCH 530348, vorapaxar, is a thrombin receptor antagonist or
    antiplatelet protease activated receptor-1 inhibitor being
    studied for the prevention and treatment of thrombosis. In
    November 2009, Merck announced completion of patient enrollment
    of more than 26,000 patients in the TRA 2°P-TIMI 50
    clinical trial, a Phase III, randomized, double-blind,
    placebo-controlled, multinational study. The trial will assess
    the ability of SCH 530348 to prevent major cardiovascular events
    when added to current antiplatelet regimens (aspirin or aspirin
    plus an ADP inhibitor) in patients who have previously
    experienced a heart attack or stroke or who have peripheral
    arterial disease. SCH 530348 is also being studied in the
    treatment of patients with acute coronary syndrome in the
    ongoing Phase III Thrombin Receptor Antagonist for Clinical
    Event Reduction in Acute Coronary Syndrome trial, led by the
    Duke Clinical Research Institute. The Company anticipates filing
    an NDA for vorapaxar with the FDA in 2011.



MK-2452, tafluprost, is a preservative free, synthetic analogue
    of the prostaglandin F2α for the reduction of elevated
    intraocular pressure in appropriate patients with primary
    open-angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension. In April 2009, Old
    Merck and Santen announced a worldwide licensing agreement for
    tafluprost.



As previously disclosed, Old Merck submitted for filing an NDA
    with the FDA for MK-0653C, ezetimibe combined with atorvastatin,
    which is an investigational medication for the treatment of
    dyslipidemia, and the FDA refused to file the application. The
    FDA has identified additional manufacturing and stability data
    that are needed and the Company is assessing the FDA’s
    response and anticipates filing in 2011.



MK-0431C, a candidate currently in Phase III clinical
    development, combinesJanuviawith pioglitazone, another
    type 2 diabetes therapy. The Company continues to anticipate
    filing an NDA for MK-0431C with the FDA in 2011.





V503 is a nine-valent HPV vaccine in development to expand
    protection against cancer-causing HPV types. The Phase III
    clinical program is underway and Merck anticipates filing a BLA
    with the FDA in 2012.



Tredaptive

Cordaptive

Tredaptive

Tredaptive





MK-0524B is a drug candidate that combines the novel approach to
    raising HDL-C and lowering triglycerides from ER niacin combined
    with laropiprant with the proven benefits of simvastatin in one
    combination product. Merck will not seek approval for MK-0524B
    in the United States until it files its complete response
    relating to MK-0524A.



MK-0859, anacetrapib, is an inhibitor of the cholesteryl ester
    transfer protein that has shown promise in lipid management by
    raising HDL-C and reducing LDL-C without raising blood pressure.
    In November 2009, Merck announced that in a Phase IIb study in
    589 patients with primary hypercholesterolemia or mixed
    hyperlipidemia treated with anacetrapib as monotherapy or
    co-administered with atorvastatin, there were persistent lipid
    effects in the higher dose arms in both the monotherapy and
    co-administration treatment groups eight weeks after stopping
    active therapy with anacetrapib. The effect of CETP inhibition
    on cardiovascular risk has yet to be established. A
    Phase III trial, titled DEFINE, is ongoing to further
    evaluate the safety and efficacy of anacetrapib in patients with
    coronary heart disease. The Company anticipates filing an NDA
    with the FDA beyond 2015.



As previously disclosed, in 2009, Old Merck announced it was
    delaying the filing of the U.S. application for telcagepant
    (MK-0974), the Company’s investigational calcitonin
    gene-related peptide (“CGRP”)-receptor antagonist for
    the intermittent treatment of acute migraine. The decision was
    based on findings from a Phase IIa exploratory study in which a
    small number of patients taking telcagepant twice daily for
    three months for the prevention of migraine were found to have
    marked elevations in liver transaminases. The daily dosing
    regimen in the prevention study was different than the dosing
    regimen used in Phase III studies in which telcagepant was
    intermittently administered in one or two doses to treat
    individual migraine attacks as they occurred. Other studies with
    telcagepant for the acute, intermittent treatment of migraine
    continue. Following meetings with regulatory agencies at the end
    of 2009, Merck is planning to conduct an additional safety study
    as part of the overall Phase III program for telcagepant.
    The results of this study will inform planned filings for
    approval.



SCH 900395, acadesine, is a potentialfirst-inclass adenosine regulating agent for ischemia reperfusion-injury
    in patients undergoing heart bypass surgery. Patient enrollment
    in the RED CABG Phase III clinical trial was initiated in
    2009.



SCH 417690, vicriviroc, for the treatment of HIV infection
    (treatment experienced) was evaluated in two Phase III
    studies in this patient population, and it was announced in
    January 2010 that the primary efficacy endpoint was not met.
    Merck will not submit an NDA to the FDA for vicriviroc in
    treatment-experienced HIV-infected patients at this time but
    will continue to evaluate vicriviroc as first-line therapy for
    treatment-naive patients.



As previously disclosed, in 2007, Cubist Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
    (“Cubist”) entered into a license agreement with Old
    Merck for the development and commercialization of Cubicin
    (daptomycin for injection, MK-3009) in Japan. Merck will develop
    and commercialize Cubicin through its wholly-owned subsidiary,
    Banyu Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Cubist commercializes Cubicin in
    the United States. MK-3009 is currently in Phase III
    development.



MK-4305 is an orexin receptor antagonist, a potential new
    approach to the treatment of chronic insomnia, currently in
    Phase III development.



SCH 900962,Elonva,corifollitropin alpha injection,
    which has been approved in the EC for controlled ovarian
    stimulation in combination with a GnRH antagonist for the
    development of multiple follicles in women participating in an
    assisted reproductive technology program, is currently in
    Phase III development in the United States.



Merck has terminated the internal clinical development program
    for esmirtazapine (SCH 900265) for hot flashes and insomnia
    for strategic reasons.



As previously disclosed, in 2009, Old Merck announced that
    preliminary results for the pivotal Phase III study of
    rolofylline (MK-7418), its investigational medicine for the
    treatment of acute heart failure, showed that rolofylline did
    not meet the primary or secondary efficacy endpoints. Old Merck
    terminated the clinical development program for rolofylline.



The chart below reflects the Company’s current research
    pipeline as of February 12, 2010. Candidates shown in
    Phase III include specific products. Candidates shown in
    Phase II include the most advanced compound with a specific
    mechanism or, if listed compounds have the same mechanism, they
    are each currently intended for





commercialization in a given therapeutic area. Small molecules
    and biologics are given MK-number or SCH-number designations and
    vaccine candidates are given V-number designations. Candidates
    in Phase I, additional indications in the same therapeutic area
    and additional claims, line extensions or formulations for
    in-line products are not shown.





Phase IIAllergySCH
    900237(2)AnemiaMK-2578AsthmaMK-0476CAtrial FibrillationMK-6621 (vernakalant [oral])CancerMK-0646 (dalotuzumab)SCH 727965 (dinaciclib)SCH 900776Clostridium difficile
    InfectionMK-3415ACOPDSCH 527123DiabetesMK-0941MK-3577Hepatitis CMK-7009 (vaniprevir)HIVSCH 417690 (vicriviroc)Hot FlashesMK-6913HypertensionMK-0736InsomniaMK-6096OsteoporosisMK-5442Parkinson’s
    DiseaseSCH 420814 (preladenant)Pediatric VaccineV419ProgeriaSCH 066336,Sarasar(lonafarnib)SchizophreniaMK-8998SCH 900435Staph InfectionV710ThrombosisMK-4448 (betrixaban)

Phase III(6)AllergySCH 697243, Grass
    pollen(2)SCH 039641,
    Ragweed(2)Anesthesia ReversalSCH 900616 (sugammadex)
    (U.S.)(4)AtherosclerosisMK-0524A (extended-releaseniacin/ laropiprant)
    (U.S.)(3)MK-0524B (extended-releaseniacin/ laropiprant/simvastin)MK-0859 (anacetrapib)Cervical CancerV503ContraceptionSCH 900121 (NOMAC/E2) (U.S.)DiabetesMK-0431C
    (Januvia/pioglitazone)FertilitySCH 900962 (corifollitropin alfainjection)
    (U.S.)(3)GlaucomaMK-2452 (tafluprost)
    (U.S.)(4)Hepatitis CSCH 503034 (boceprevir)InsomniaMK-4305Ischemia-Reperfusion
    InjurySCH 900395 (acadesine)MigraineMK-0974 (telcagepant)OsteoporosisMK-0822 (odanacatib)SarcomaMK-8669 (ridaforolimus)Staph InfectionMK-3009 (daptomycin for
    injection)(5)ThrombosisSCH 530348 (vorapaxar) (TRA)

Under ReviewAsthmaSCH 418131 (momestasone/ formoterol
    combination) (U.S./EU)Atrial FibrillationMK-6621 (vernakalant [IV])
    (EU)(1)ContraceptionSCH 900121 (NOMAC/E2) (EU)Schizophrenia/Bipolar I
    DisorderSCH 900274 (asenapine) (EU)Footnotes:(1)Exclusive rights outside of the
    United States, Canada and Mexico to vernakalant (IV)(2)North American rights only(3)Approved in certain countries in
    Europe(4)Approved in certain countries in
    Europe and Japan(5)Japanese rights only(6)MK-0653C fixed dose combination of
    ezetimibe and atorvastatin is anticipated to be submitted to the
    U.S. FDA in 2011 and commercialized when regulatory and legal
    requirements have been satisfied



Employees



As of December 31, 2009, the Company had approximately
    100,000 employees worldwide, with approximately 42,000
    employed in the United States, including Puerto Rico.
    Approximately 28% of worldwide employees of the Company are
    represented by various collective bargaining groups.



In October 2008, Old Merck announced a global restructuring
    program (the “2008 Restructuring Program”) to reduce
    its cost structure, increase efficiency, and enhance
    competitiveness. As part of the 2008 Restructuring Program, the
    Company expects to eliminate approximately 7,200 positions
    — 6,800 active employees and 400 vacancies —
    across all areas of the Company worldwide by the end of 2011.
    About 40% of the total





reductions will occur in the United States. As part of the 2008
    Restructuring Program, Old Merck is streamlining management
    layers by reducing its total number of senior and mid-level
    executives globally.



Prior to the Merger, Schering-Plough commenced a Productivity
    Transformation Program, which was designed to reduce and avoid
    costs and increase productivity.



In February 2010, the Company announced the first phase of a new
    global restructuring program (the “Merger Restructuring
    Program”) in conjunction with the integration of the legacy
    Merck and legacy Schering-Plough businesses. This Merger
    Restructuring Program is intended to optimize the cost structure
    of the combined Company. As part of the first phase of the
    Merger Restructuring Program, by the end of 2012, the Company
    expects to reduce its total workforce by approximately 15%
    across all areas of the Company worldwide. The Company also
    plans to eliminate 2,500 vacant positions as part of the first
    phase of the program. These workforce reductions will primarily
    come from the elimination of duplicative positions in sales,
    administrative and headquarters organizations, as well as from
    the consolidation of certain manufacturing facilities and
    research and development operations.



Environmental
    Matters





Geographic
    Area Information



The Company’s operations outside the United States are
    conducted primarily through subsidiaries. Sales worldwide by
    subsidiaries outside the United States were 47% of sales in
    2009, 44% of sales in 2008 and 39% of sales in 2007. The
    increase in proportion of sales outside the United States in
    2009 is primarily due to the inclusion of results of
    Schering-Plough following the close of the Merger.



The Company’s worldwide business is subject to risks of
    currency fluctuations, governmental actions and other
    governmental proceedings abroad. The Company does not regard
    these risks as a deterrent to further expansion of its
    operations abroad. However, the Company closely reviews its
    methods of operations and adopts strategies responsive to
    changing economic and political conditions.



As a result of the Merger, Merck has expanded its operations in
    countries located in Latin America, the Middle East, Africa,
    Eastern Europe and Asia Pacific. Business in these developing
    areas, while sometimes less stable, offers important
    opportunities for growth over time.



Financial information about geographic areas of the
    Company’s business is discussed in Item 8.
    “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” below.



Available
    Information



The Company’s Internet website address iswww.merck.com.The Company will make available,
    free of charge at the “Investor Information” portion
    of its website, its Annual Report onForm 10-K,Quarterly Reports onForm 10-Q,Current Reports onForm 8-K,and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant
    to





Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after such
    reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the
    Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).



The Company’s corporate governance guidelines and the
    charters of the Board of Directors’ six standing committees
    are available on the Company’s website atwww.merck.com/about/leadershipand all such
    information is available in print to any stockholder who
    requests it from the Company.



