Item 1.Business.



over-the-counter,



On November 3, 2009, Merck & Co., Inc. (“Old
    Merck”) and Schering-Plough Corporation
    (“Schering-Plough”) merged (the “Merger”).
    In the Merger, Schering-Plough acquired all of the shares of Old
    Merck, which became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Schering-Plough
    and was renamed Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp.
    Schering-Plough continued as the surviving public company and
    was renamed Merck & Co., Inc. (“New Merck”
    or the “Company”). However, for accounting purposes
    only, the Merger was treated as an acquisition with Old Merck
    considered the accounting acquirer. Accordingly, the
    accompanying financial statements reflect Old Merck’s
    stand-alone operations as they existed prior to the completion
    of the Merger. The results of Schering-Plough’s business
    have been included in New Merck’s financial statements only
    for periods subsequent to the completion of the Merger.
    Therefore, New Merck’s financial results for 2009 do not
    reflect a full year of legacy Schering-Plough operations.
    References in this report and in the accompanying financial
    statements to “Merck” for periods prior to the Merger
    refer to Old Merck and for periods after the completion of the
    Merger to New Merck.



For financial information and other information about the
    Pharmaceutical segment, see Item 7. “Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations” and Item 8. “Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data” below.



All product or service marks appearing in type form different
    from that of the surrounding text are trademarks or service
    marks owned, licensed to, promoted or distributed by Merck, its
    subsidiaries or affiliates, except as noted.CozaarandHyzaarare registered trademarks of E.I. du Pont de
    Nemours and Company, Wilmington, DE. All other trademarks or
    services marks are those of their respective owners.



Overview



During 2010, the Company made progress driving revenue growth
    for key products, expanding its global reach including within
    emerging markets, improving its cost structure, making strategic
    investments in its business and advancing its late-stage
    pipeline, while continuing the task of integrating the legacy
    companies post-Merger.



Sales increased to $46.0 billion in 2010 driven largely by
    incremental revenue resulting from the inclusion of a full year
    of results for legacy Schering-Plough products, such asRemicade(infliximab),a treatment for
    inflammatory diseases,Nasonex(mometasone furoate
    monohydrate), an inhaled nasal corticosteroid for the treatment
    of nasal allergy symptoms,Temodar(temozolomide),a treatment for certain types of brain tumors,PegIntron(peginterferonalpha-2b)for treating chronic hepatitis C, andClarinex(desloratadine), a non-sedating antihistamine, as well as by
    the inclusion of a full year of results forZetia(ezetimibe) andVytorin(ezetimibe/simvastatin),
    cholesterol modifying medicines. Prior to the Merger,
    substantially all sales ofZetiaandVytorinwere






Equity
    income from affiliates

Sales

Januvia

Janumet

Isentress

Singulair

Cozaar

Hyzaar

Fosamax

Fosamax Plus D

Fosamax

Gardasil

Zocor

,



Sales ofRemicadeand a follow-on product,Simponi, were $2.8 billion in the aggregate in 2010.
    The Company is involved in an arbitration with Centocor Ortho
    Biotech, Inc. (“Centocor”), a subsidiary of
    Johnson & Johnson, in which Centocor is seeking to
    terminate the Company’s rights to continue to marketRemicadeandSimponi. The arbitration hearing has
    concluded and the Company is awaiting the arbitration
    panel’s decision. See Item 8. “Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data,” Note 12.
    “Contingencies and Environmental Liabilities” below.
    An unfavorable outcome in the arbitration would have a material
    adverse effect on the Company’s financial position,
    liquidity and results of operations.



Since the Merger, the Company has continued the advancement of
    drug candidates through its pipeline. During 2010, the
    U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”)
    approvedDuleraInhalation Aerosol (mometasone
    furoate/formoterol fumarate dihydrate), a new fixed-dose
    combination asthma treatment for patients 12 years of age
    and older. In addition, the intravenous formulation ofBrinavess(vernakalant), for which Merck has exclusive
    marketing rights outside of the United States, Canada and
    Mexico, was granted marketing approval in the EU for the rapid
    conversion of recent onset atrial fibrillation to sinus rhythm
    in adults: for non-surgery patients with atrial fibrillation of
    seven days or less and for post-cardiac surgery patients with
    atrial fibrillation of three days or less.



Also during 2010, the FDA approved a new indication forGardasilfor the prevention of anal cancer caused by HPV
    types 16 and 18 and for the prevention of anal intraepithelial
    neoplasia grades 1, 2 and 3 (anal dysplasias and precancerous
    lesions) caused by HPV types 6, 11, 16 and 18, in males and
    females 9 through 26 years of age. Additionally, in
    September 2010, two supplemental New Drug Applications
    (“sNDA”) forSaphris(asenapine) for the
    treatment of schizophrenia in adults and acute treatment of
    bipolar I disorder in adults were approved in the United States
    to expand the product’s indications. Also during 2010, the
    Company entered into a co-promotion agreement for the
    commercialization ofDaxas, a treatment for symptomatic
    chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, which the Company
    launched in certain European markets.



The Company currently has three candidates under review with the
    FDA: boceprevir, an investigational oral hepatitis C
    protease inhibitor; MK-0431A XR, the Company’s
    investigational extended-release formulation ofJanumet;
    and MK-0431D, an investigational combination ofJanuviaandZocorfor the treatment of diabetes and dyslipidemia.
    In addition, SCH 900121, NOMAC/E2, an oral contraceptive that
    combines a selective progestin with 17-beta estradiol, is
    currently under review in the EU. Additionally, MK-3009, Cubicin
    daptomycin for injection, is






currently under review in Japan where the Company has marketing
    rights. Also, the Company currently has 19 candidates in
    Phase III development and anticipates making a New Drug
    Application (“NDA”) with respect to certain of these
    candidates in 2011 including MK-8669, ridaforolimus, a novel
    mTOR inhibitor being evaluated for the treatment of metastatic
    soft tissue and bone sarcomas; MK-2452,Saflutan(tafluprost), for the reduction of elevated intraocular
    pressure in appropriate patients with primary open-angle
    glaucoma and ocular hypertension; MK-0653C, ezetimibe combined
    with atorvastatin, which is an investigational medication for
    the treatment of dyslipidemia; and MK-0974, telcagepant, the
    Company’s investigational medication for acute treatment of
    migraine. Another Phase III candidate is vorapaxar with
    respect to which the Company was recently informed by the
    chairman of one of the studies to discontinue study drug and
    that investigators were to begin to close out the study in a
    timely and orderly fashion. The Company recorded a material
    impairment charge on the related intangible asset. See
    “Research and Development” below.



The Company continues to make progress in achieving cost savings
    across all areas, including from consolidation in both sales and
    marketing and research and development, the application of the
    Company’s lean manufacturing and sourcing strategies to the
    expanded operations, and the full integration of the MSP
    Partnership. These savings result from various actions,
    including the Merger Restructuring Program discussed below,
    previously announced ongoing cost reduction activities at both
    legacy companies, as well as from non-restructuring-related
    activities such as the Company’s procurement savings
    initiative. During 2010, the Company realized more than
    $2.0 billion in net cost savings from all of these
    activities.





In March 2010, the United States enacted health care reform
    legislation. Important market reforms began during 2010 and will
    continue through full implementation in 2014. During 2010, Merck
    incurred costs as a result of the legislation, including
    increased Medicaid rebates and other impacts that reduced
    revenues. The Company also recorded a charge in 2010 associated
    with this legislation that changed tax law to require taxation
    of the prescription drug subsidy of the Company’s retiree
    health benefit plans for which companies receive reimbursement
    under Medicare Part D. Additional provisions of the
    legislation will come into effect in 2011, including the
    assessment of an annual health care reform fee on all branded
    prescription drug manufacturers and importers and the
    requirement that drug manufacturers pay a 50% discount on
    Medicare Part D utilization incurred by beneficiaries when
    they are






in the Medicare Part D coverage gap (i.e., the so-called
    “donut hole”). These new provisions will decrease
    revenues and increase costs.Earnings per common share (“EPS”) assuming dilution
    for 2010 were $0.28, which reflect a net unfavorable impact
    resulting from the amortization of purchase accounting
    adjustments, in-process research and development
    (“IPR&D”) impairment charges, including a charge
    related to the vorapaxar clinical development program,
    restructuring and merger-related costs, as well as a legal
    reserve relating toVioxx(the “VioxxLiability Reserve”) discussed below, partially offset
    by the gain recognized on AstraZeneca’s exercise of its
    option to acquire certain assets from the Company.
    Non-GAAP EPS in 2010 were $3.42 excluding these items (see
    Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations” —
    “Non-GAAP Income and Non-GAAP EPS” below).In December 2010, Merck announced that its Board of Directors
    had elected Kenneth C. Frazier, then Merck’s president, as
    chief executive officer and president, as well as a member of
    the board, effective January 1, 2011. Mr. Frazier
    succeeds Richard T. Clark, who will continue to serve as
    chairman of the board.5





Product
    Sales



Sales(1)of the Company’s products were as follows:



Years Ended December 31201020092008Pharmaceutical:Bone, Respiratory, Immunology and DermatologySingulair$4,987$4,660$4,337Remicade2,714431—Nasonex1,220165—Fosamax9261,1001,553Clarinex659101—Arcoxia398358377Proventil21026—Asmanex20837—CardiovascularZetia2,2974036Vytorin2,01444184Integrilin26646—Diabetes and ObesityJanuvia2,3851,9221,397Janumet954658351Diversified BrandsCozaar/Hyzaar2,1043,5613,558Zocor468558660Propecia447440429Claritin Rx42071—Vasotec/Vaseretic255311357Remeron22338—Proscar216291324Infectious DiseaseIsentress1,090752361PegIntron737149—Cancidas611617596Primaxin610689760Invanz362293265Avelox31666—Rebetol22136—Crixivan/Stocrin206206275Neurosciences and OphthalmologyMaxalt550575529Cosopt/Trusopt484503781Subutex/Suboxone11136—OncologyTemodar1,065188—Emend378317264Caelyx28447—Intron A20938—Vaccines(2)ProQuad/M-M-R II/Varivax1,3781,3691,268Gardasil9881,1181,403RotaTeq519522665Pneumovax376346249Zostavax243277312Women’s Health and EndocrineNuvaRing55988—Follistim AQ52896—Implanon23637—Cerazette20935—Other
    pharmaceutical(3)4,1701,218920Total Pharmaceutical segment sales39,81125,23622,081Other segment
    sales(4)5,5782,1141,694Total segment sales45,38927,35023,775Other(5)5987875$45,987$27,428$23,850







(1)Sales of legacy Schering-Plough products reflect results for
    2010 and the post-Merger period in 2009. In addition, prior to
    the Merger, substantially all sales ofZetiaandVytorinwere recognized by the MSP Partnership and the
    results of Old Merck’s interest in the MSP Partnership were
    recorded inEquity income from affiliates.As a result of
    the Merger, the MSP Partnership is wholly-owned by the Company;
    accordingly, all sales of MSP Partnership products after the
    Merger are reflected in the table above. Sales ofZetiaandVytorinin 2008 reflect Old Merck’s sales of
    these products in Latin America which was not part of the MSP
    Partnership.



(2)These amounts do not reflect sales of vaccines sold in most
    major European markets through the Company’s joint venture,
    Sanofi Pasteur MSD, the results of which are reflected inEquity income from affiliates. These amounts do, however,
    reflect supply sales to Sanofi Pasteur MSD.



(3)Other pharmaceutical primarily reflects sales of other human
    pharmaceutical products, including products within the
    franchises not listed separately.



(4)Reflects other non-reportable segments including Animal
    Health and Consumer Care, and revenue from the Company’s
    relationship with AZLP primarily relating to sales of Nexium, as
    well as Prilosec. Revenue from AZLP was $1.3 billion,
    $1.4 billion and $1.6 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively.



(5)Other revenues are primarily comprised of miscellaneous
    corporate revenues, third-party manufacturing sales, sales
    related to divested products or businesses and other supply
    sales not included in segment results.








Pharmaceutical

The Company’s pharmaceutical products include therapeutic
    and preventive agents, generally sold by prescription, for the
    treatment of human disorders. Among these are:



Bone, Respiratory, Immunology and
    Dermatology:Singulair;Remicade;Nasonex;Fosamax; Clarinex;Arcoxia(etoricoxib) for the treatment of arthritis and pain;Asmanex Twisthaler(mometasone furoate inhalation
    powder), an oral dry-powder corticosteroid inhaler for
    first-line maintenance treatment of asthma in patients 4 and
    older; andProventil HFA(albuterol sulfate) inhalation
    aerosol for the relief of bronchospasm in patients 12 years
    or older.



Cardiovascular:Zetia(marketed asEzetroloutside the United States);Vytorin(marketed asInegyoutside the United States); andIntegrilin(eptifibatide) Injection, a platelet receptor GP IIb/IIIa
    inhibitor for the treatment of patients with acute coronary
    syndrome and those undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention
    in the United States, as well as for the prevention of early
    myocardial infarction in patients with acute coronary syndrome
    in most countries.



Diabetes and Obesity:JanuviaandJanumetfor the treatment of type 2 diabetes.



Diversified Brands:Cozaar;Hyzaar;Zocor; Propecia(finasteride), a product for the
    treatment of male pattern hair loss;Claritin Rx; Vasotec(enalapril maleate) andVaseretic(enalapril
    maleate-hydrochlorothiazide),hypertensionand/orheart
    failure products; Proscar(finasteride), a urology
    product for the treatment of symptomatic benign prostate
    enlargement;andRemeron(mirtazapine), an
    antidepressant.



Infectious Disease:Isentress;PegIntron;Primaxin(imipenem and cilastatin
    sodium); Cancidas(caspofungin acetate), an anti-fungal
    product;Invanz(ertapenem sodium) for the treatment of
    certain infections;Avelox(moxifloxacin), which the
    Company only markets in the United States, a broad-spectrum
    fluoroquinolone antibiotic for certain respiratory and skin
    infections;Rebetol(ribavirin, USP) Capsules and Oral
    Solution for use in combination withPegIntronorIntron A(interferonalpha-2b,recombinant) for treating chronic hepatitis C; andCrixivan(indinavir sulfate) andStocrin(efavirenz), antiretroviral therapies for the treatment of
    HIV infection.



Neurosciences and Ophthalmology:Maxalt(rizatriptan benzoate),a product for acute treatment
    of migraine; andCosopt(dorzolamide hydrochloride and
    timolol maleate ophthalmic solution) andTrusopt(dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution).



Oncology:Temodar;Emend(aprepitant)
    for the prevention of chemotherapy-induced and post-operative
    nausea and vomiting; andIntron Afor Injection, marketed
    for chronic hepatitis B and C and numerous anticancer
    indications worldwide, including as adjuvant therapy for
    malignant melanoma.



Vaccines:ProQuad(Measles, Mumps, Rubella and
    Varicella Virus Vaccine Live), a pediatric combination vaccine
    to help prevent measles, mumps, rubella and varicella;M-M-RII (Measles, Mumps and Rubella Virus Vaccine Live), a
    vaccine to help prevent measles, mumps and rubella;Varivax(Varicella Virus Vaccine Live), a vaccine to help
    prevent chickenpox (varicella);Gardasil; RotaTeq(Rotavirus Vaccine, Live, Oral, Pentavalent), a vaccine to help
    protect against rotavirus gastroenteritis in infants and
    children; Pneumovax(pneumococcal vaccine polyvalent), a
    vaccine to help prevent pneumococcal disease;andZostavax(Zoster Vaccine Live), a vaccine to help prevent
    shingles (herpes zoster) in patients aged 60 or older.



Women’s Health and Endocrine:NuvaRing(etonogestrel/ethinyl estradiol vaginal ring), a vaginal
    contraceptive ring; Follistim AQ(follitropin beta
    injection), a fertility treatment;Implanon(etonogestrel
    implant), a single-rod subdermal contraceptive implant; andCerazette, a progestin only oral contraceptive.



Animal
    Health

The Animal Health segment discovers, develops, manufactures and
    markets animal health products, including vaccines. Principal
    marketed products in this segment include:



Livestock Products:Nuflorantibiotic range
    for use in cattle and swine;Bovilis/Vistavaccine
    lines for infectious diseases in cattle;Banaminebovine
    and swine anti-inflammatory;Estrumatefor treatment of
    fertility disorders in cattle;Regumate/Matrixfertility management for swine and horses;Resflorcombination broad-spectrum antibiotic and non-steroidal
    anti-inflammatory drug for bovine respiratory disease;ZilmaxandRevalorto






improve production efficiencies in beef cattle;M+Pacswine pneumonia vaccine; andPorcilisvaccine line
    for infectious diseases in swine.



Poultry Products:Nobilis/Innovax,vaccine lines for poultry; andParacoxandCoccivaccoccidiosis vaccines.



Companion Animal
    Products:Nobivac/Continuumvaccine
    lines for flexible dog and cat vaccination;Otomax/Mometamax/Posatexear ointments for
    acute and chronic otitis;Caninsulin/Vetsulindiabetes mellitus treatment for dogs and cats;Panacur/Safeguardbroad-spectrum anthelmintic
    (de-wormer) for use in many animals; andScalibor/Exspotfor protecting against bites from
    fleas, ticks, mosquitoes and sandflies.



Aquaculture Products:Sliceparasiticide for
    sea lice in salmon;Aquavac/Norvaxvaccines
    against bacterial and viral disease in fish;Compact PDvaccine for salmon; andAquaflorantibiotic for
    farm-raised fish.



Consumer
    Care

The Consumer Care segment develops, manufactures and marketsover-the-counter,foot care and sun care products. Principal products in this
    segment include:



Over-the-CounterProducts:Claritinnon-drowsy antihistamines;MiraLAXtreatment for occasional constipation;Coricidin HBPdecongestant-free cold/flu medicine for
    people with high blood pressure;Afrinnasal decongestant
    spray; andZegerid OTCtreatment for frequent heartburn.



Foot Care:Dr. Scholl’sfoot care
    products;Lotrimintopical antifungal products; andTinactintopical antifungal products and foot and sneaker
    odor/wetness products.



Sun Care:Coppertonesun care lotions, sprays
    and dry oils; andSolarcainesunburn relief products.



For a further discussion of sales of the Company’s
    products, see Item 7. “Management’s Discussion
    and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations” below.



Product
    Approvals



In June 2010, the FDA approvedDuleraInhalation Aerosol,
    a new fixed-dose combination asthma treatment for patients
    12 years of age and older.Duleracombines an
    inhaled corticosteroid with a long-acting
    beta2-agonist.



In September 2010, the intravenous formulation ofBrinavesswas granted marketing approval in the EU, Iceland and Norway
    for the rapid conversion of recent onset atrial fibrillation to
    sinus rhythm in adults: for non-surgery patients with atrial
    fibrillation of seven days or less and for post-cardiac surgery
    patients with atrial fibrillation of three days or less.Brinavessacts preferentially in the atria and is the
    first product in a new class of pharmacologic agents for
    cardioversion of atrial fibrillation to launch in the EU. In
    April 2009, Cardiome Pharma Corp. and Merck announced a
    collaboration and license agreement for the development and
    commercialization of vernakalant. The agreement provides Merck
    exclusive rights outside of the United States, Canada and Mexico
    to vernakalant intravenous formulation.



Saphris

Saphris

Sycrest

Sycrest

Sycrest






Joint
    Ventures



AstraZeneca
    LP

In 1982, Old Merck entered into an agreement with Astra AB
    (“Astra”) to develop and market Astra products in the
    United States. In 1994, Old Merck and Astra formed an equally
    owned joint venture that developed and marketed most of
    Astra’s new prescription medicines in the United States
    including Prilosec (omeprazole), the first in a class of
    medications known as proton pump inhibitors, which slows the
    production of acid from the cells of the stomach lining.



In 1998, Old Merck and Astra restructured the joint venture
    whereby Old Merck acquired Astra’s interest in the joint
    venture, renamed KBI Inc. (“KBI”), and contributed
    KBI’s operating assets to a new U.S. limited
    partnership named Astra Pharmaceuticals, L.P. (the
    “Partnership”), in exchange for a 1% limited partner
    interest. Astra contributed the net assets of its wholly owned
    subsidiary, Astra USA, Inc., to the Partnership in exchange for
    a 99% general partner interest. The Partnership, renamed
    AstraZeneca LP (“AZLP”) upon Astra’s 1999 merger
    with Zeneca Group Plc (the “AstraZeneca merger”),
    became the exclusive distributor of the products for which KBI
    retained rights.



The Company earns certain Partnership returns as well as ongoing
    revenue based on sales of current and future KBI products. The
    Partnership returns include a priority return provided for in
    the Partnership Agreement, variable returns based, in part, upon
    sales of certain former Astra USA, Inc. products, and a
    preferential return representing the Company’s share of
    undistributed Partnership AZLP generally accepted accounting
    principles (“GAAP”) earnings. The AstraZeneca merger
    triggered a partial redemption in March 2008 of Old Merck’s
    interest in certain AZLP product rights. Upon this redemption,
    Old Merck received $4.3 billion from AZLP. This amount was
    based primarily on a multiple of Old Merck’s average annual
    variable returns derived from sales of the former Astra USA,
    Inc. products for the three years prior to the redemption (the
    “Limited Partner Share of Agreed Value”). Old Merck
    recorded a $1.5 billion pretax gain on the partial
    redemption in 2008. The partial redemption of Old Merck’s
    interest in the product rights did not result in a change in Old
    Merck’s 1% limited partnership interest. As described in
    Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations” below, after
    certain adjustments, Old Merck recorded an aggregate pretax gain
    of $2.2 billion in 2008.



In conjunction with the 1998 restructuring discussed above,
    Astra purchased an option (the “Asset Option”) for a
    payment of $443 million, which was recorded as deferred
    income, to buy Old Merck’s interest in the KBI products,
    excluding the gastrointestinal medicines Nexium and Prilosec
    (the “Non-PPI Products”). In April 2010, AstraZeneca
    exercised the Asset Option. Merck received $647 million
    from AstraZeneca representing the net present value as of
    March 31, 2008 of projected future pretax revenue to be
    received by Old Merck from the Non-PPI Products (the
    “Appraised Value”), which was recorded as a reduction
    to the Company’s investment in AZLP. The Company recognized
    the $443 million of deferred income in 2010 as a component ofOther (income) expense, net. In addition, in 1998, Old
    Merck granted Astra an option (the
    “Shares Option”) to buy Old Merck’s common
    stock interest in KBI and, therefore, Old Merck’s interest
    in Nexium and Prilosec, exercisable in 2012. The exercise price
    for the Shares Option will be based on the net present
    value of estimated future net sales of Nexium and Prilosec as
    determined at the time of exercise, subject to certaintrue-upmechanisms. The Company believes that it is likely that
    AstraZeneca will exercise the Shares Option.



Sanofi
    Pasteur MSD

In 1994, Old Merck and Pasteur Mérieux Connaught (now
    Sanofi Pasteur S.A.) formed a joint venture to market human
    vaccines in Europe and to collaborate in the development of
    combination vaccines for distribution in the then existing EU
    and the European Free Trade Association. Old Merck and Sanofi
    Pasteur contributed, among other things, their European vaccine
    businesses for equal shares in the joint venture, known as
    Pasteur Mérieux MSD, S.N.C. (now Sanofi Pasteur MSD,
    S.N.C.). The joint venture maintains a presence, directly or
    through affiliates or branches, in Belgium, Italy, Germany,
    Spain, France, Austria, Ireland, Sweden, Portugal, the
    Netherlands, Switzerland and the United Kingdom and through
    distributors in the rest of its territory.



Johnson &
    JohnsonoMerck

    Consumer Pharmaceuticals Company

In 1989, Old Merck formed a joint venture with
    Johnson & Johnson to develop and market a broad range
    of nonprescription medicines for U.S. consumers. This 50%
    owned joint venture also includes Canada. Significant






joint venture products arePepcid AC(famotidine), anover-the-counterform of Old Merck’s ulcer medicationPepcid(famotidine), as well asPepcid Complete,anover-the-counterproduct that combines the Company’s ulcer medication with
    antacids (calcium carbonate and magnesium hydroxide).



Licenses



Remicade,

Simponi

Remicade

Simponi

Remicade

Simponi

Simponi

Simponi

Simponi

Simponi



Competition



The markets in which the Company conducts its business and the
    pharmaceutical industry are highly competitive and highly
    regulated. The Company’s competitors include other
    worldwide research-based pharmaceutical companies, smaller
    research companies with more limited therapeutic focus, and
    generic drug and consumer health care manufacturers. The
    Company’s operations may be affected by technological
    advances of competitors, industry consolidation, patents granted
    to competitors, competitive combination products, new products
    of competitors, the generic availability of competitors’
    branded products, new information from clinical trials of
    marketed products or post-marketing surveillance and generic
    competition as the Company’s products mature. In addition,
    patent positions are increasingly being challenged by
    competitors, and the outcome can be highly uncertain. An adverse
    result in a patent dispute can preclude commercialization of
    products or negatively affect sales of existing products and
    could result in the recognition of an impairment charge with
    respect to certain products. Competitive pressures have
    intensified as pressures in the industry have grown. The effect
    on operations of competitive factors and patent disputes cannot
    be predicted.



Pharmaceutical competition involves a rigorous search for
    technological innovations and the ability to market these
    innovations effectively. With its long-standing emphasis on
    research and development, the Company is well positioned to
    compete in the search for technological innovations. Additional
    resources to meet market challenges include quality control,
    flexibility to meet customer specifications, an efficient
    distribution system and a strong technical information service.
    The Company is active in acquiring and marketing products
    through external alliances, such as joint ventures and licenses,
    and has been refining its sales and marketing efforts to further
    address changing industry conditions. However, the introduction
    of new products and processes by competitors may result in price
    reductions and product displacements, even for products
    protected by patents. For example, the number of compounds
    available to treat a particular disease typically increases over
    time and can result in slowed sales growth for the
    Company’s products in that therapeutic category.






Global efforts toward health care cost containment continue to
    exert pressure on product pricing and market access. In 2010,
    this pressure was particularly intense in several European
    countries which implemented austerity measures aimed at reducing
    costs in areas such as health care. In the United States,
    federal and state governments for many years also have pursued
    methods to reduce the cost of drugs and vaccines for which they
    pay. For example, federal laws require the Company to pay
    specified rebates for medicines reimbursed by Medicaid and to
    provide discounts for outpatient medicines purchased by certain
    Public Health Service entities and “disproportionate
    share” hospitals (hospitals meeting certain criteria).
    Under the Federal Vaccines for Children entitlement program, the
    U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
    (“CDC”) funds and purchases recommended pediatric
    vaccines at a public sector price for the immunization of
    Medicaid-eligible, uninsured, Native American and certain
    underinsured children. Merck was awarded a CDC contract in 2010
    for the supply of pediatric vaccines for the Vaccines for
    Children program.



Against this backdrop, the United States enacted major health
    care reform legislation in 2010. Various insurance market
    reforms began last year and will continue through full
    implementation in 2014. The new law is expected to expand access
    to health care to more than 32 million Americans by the end
    of the decade that did not previously have regular access to
    health care. With respect to the effect of the law on the
    pharmaceutical industry, the law increased the mandated Medicaid
    rebate from 15.1% to 23.1%, expanded the rebate to Medicaid
    managed care utilization, and increased the types of entities
    eligible for the federal 340B drug discount program. The law
    also requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to pay a 50% discount
    on Medicare Part D utilization by beneficiaries when they
    are in the Medicare Part D coverage gap (i.e., the
    so-called “donut hole”). Also, beginning in 2011,
    pharmaceutical manufacturers will be required to pay an annual
    health care reform fee. The total annual industry fee, which
    will be $2.5 billion in 2011, will be assessed on each
    company in proportion to its share of sales to certain
    government programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid.



Although not included in the health care reform law, Congress
    has also considered, and may consider again, proposals to
    increase the government’s role in pharmaceutical pricing in
    the Medicare program. These proposals may include removing the
    current legal prohibition against the Secretary of the Health
    and Human Services intervening in price negotiations between
    Medicare drug benefit program plans and pharmaceutical
    companies. They may also include mandating the payment of
    rebates for some or all of the pharmaceutical utilization in
    Medicare drug benefit plans. In addition, Congress may again
    consider proposals to allow, under certain conditions, the
    importation of medicines from other countries.



The full impact of U.S. health care reform, as well as
    continuing budget pressures on governments around the world,
    cannot be predicted at this time.



In addressing cost containment pressures, the Company makes a
    continuing effort to demonstrate that its medicines provide
    value to patients and to those who pay for health care. The
    Company works in markets with historically low rates of
    government spending on health care to encourage those
    governments to increase their investments and thereby improve
    their citizens’ access to appropriate health care,
    including medicines.



In the animal health business, there is intense competition
    which is affected by several factors including regulatory and
    legislative issues, scientific and technological advances,
    product innovation, the quality and price of the Company’s
    products, effective promotional efforts and the frequent
    introduction of generic products by competitors.



The Company’s consumer care operations face competition
    from other consumer health care businesses as well as retailers
    who carry their own private label brands. The Company’s
    competitive position is affected by several factors, including
    regulatory and legislative issues, scientific and technological
    advances, the quality and price of the Company’s products,
    promotional efforts and the growth of lower cost private label
    brands.



Operating conditions have become more challenging under the
    global pressures of competition, industry regulation, and cost
    containment efforts. Although no one can predict the effect of
    these and other factors on the Company’s business, the
    Company continually takes measures to evaluate, adapt and
    improve the organization and its business practices to better
    meet customer needs and believes that it is well positioned to
    respond to the evolving health care environment and market
    forces.






Government
    Regulation



The pharmaceutical industry is subject to regulation by
    regional, country, state and local agencies around the world.
    Governmental regulation and legislation tends to focus on
    standards and processes for determining drug safety and
    effectiveness, as well as conditions for sale or reimbursement,
    especially related to the pricing of products.



Of particular importance is the FDA in the United States, which
    administers requirements covering the testing, approval, safety,
    effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling, and marketing of
    prescription pharmaceuticals. In many cases, the FDA
    requirements and practices have increased the amount of time and
    resources necessary to develop new products and bring them to
    market in the United States. U.S. health care reform
    legislation which passed in 2010 with a full implementation date
    of 2014, significantly expands access to health care, but also
    contains a number of provisions imposing new obligations on the
    pharmaceutical industry, including, for example, an increase in
    the mandated rebate under the Medicaid program and a new
    discount requirement in the Medicare Part D program.



The EU has adopted Directives and other legislation concerning
    the classification, labeling, advertising, wholesale
    distribution and approval for marketing of medicinal products
    for human use. These provide mandatory standards throughout the
    EU, which may be supplemented or implemented with additional
    regulations by the EU member states. The Company’s policies
    and procedures are already consistent with the substance of
    these directives; consequently, it is believed that they will
    not have any material effect on the Company’s business.



In January 2008, the EC launched a sector inquiry in the
    pharmaceutical industry under the rules of EU competition law. A
    sector inquiry allows the EC to gather information about the
    general operation of market competition and is not an
    investigation into suspected anti-competitive behavior of
    specific firms. As part of this inquiry, Old Merck’s
    offices in Germany were inspected by the authorities beginning
    in January 2008. The preliminary report of the EC was issued in
    November 2008, and following the public consultation period, the
    final report was issued in July 2009. The final report confirmed
    that there has been a decline in the number of novel medicines
    reaching the market and instances of delayed market entry of
    generic medicines and discussed industry practices that may have
    contributed to these phenomena. Among other things, the final
    report expressed concern over settlements of patent disputes
    between originator and generic companies and suggested that the
    EC should monitor any anti-competitive effects. While the EC has
    issued further inquiries with respect to the subject of the
    investigation, including to the Company, the EC has not alleged
    that the Company or any of its subsidiaries have engaged in any
    unlawful practices.



The Company believes that it will continue to be able to conduct
    its operations, including launching new drugs into the market,
    in this regulatory environment.



Access to
    Medicines



As a global health care company, Merck’s primary role is to
    discover and develop innovative medicines and vaccines. The
    Company also recognizes that it has an important role to play in
    helping to improve access to its products around the world. The
    Company’s efforts in this regard are wide-ranging. For
    example, the Company has been recognized for pricing many of its
    products through a differential pricing framework, taking into
    consideration such factors as a country’s level of economic
    development and public health need.



Building on the Company’s own efforts, Merck has undertaken
    collaborations with many stakeholders to improve access to
    medicines and enhance the quality of life for people around the
    world.



For example, in 2010, through a partnership of Merck, the
    Government of Bhutan, and the Australian Cervical Cancer
    Foundation, Bhutan became the first low-income country in the
    world to successfully implement a national HPV vaccination
    program. Under this program, Merck is providingGardasilfree of charge for the first year of the program and will
    provideGardasilat the Company’s access price for
    five more years.



Also in 2010, Merck worked with its partner, the Wellcome Trust,
    to further develop the Hillemann Laboratories which was
    established in September 2009. This initiative will focus on
    developing affordable vaccines to prevent diseases that commonly
    affect low-income countries.






Merck has also in the past provided funds to The Merck Company
    Foundation, an independent organization, which has partnered
    with a variety of organizations dedicated to improving global
    health. One of these partnerships is The African Comprehensive
    HIV/AIDS Partnership in Botswana, a collaboration with the
    government of Botswana and the Bill & Melinda Gates
    Foundation, that was renewed in 2010, and supports
    Botswana’s response to HIV/AIDS through a comprehensive and
    sustainable approach to HIV prevention, care, treatment, and
    support.



Privacy
    and Data Protection



The Company is subject to a number of privacy and data
    protection laws and regulations globally. The legislative and
    regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues
    to evolve, and there has been an increasing attention to privacy
    and data protection issues with the potential to affect directly
    the Company’s business, including recently enacted laws and
    regulations in the United States and internationally requiring
    notification to individuals and government authorities of
    security breaches involving certain categories of personal
    information.



Distribution



The Company sells its human health pharmaceutical products
    primarily to drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals,
    government agencies and managed health care providers such as
    health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit managers and
    other institutions. Human health vaccines are sold primarily to
    physicians, wholesalers, physician distributors and government
    entities. The Company’s professional representatives
    communicate the effectiveness, safety and value of the
    Company’s pharmaceutical and vaccine products to health
    care professionals in private practice, group practices,
    hospitals and managed care organizations. The Company sells its
    animal health products to veterinarians, distributors and animal
    producers. The Company’sover-the-counter,foot care and sun care products are sold through wholesale and
    retail drug, food chain and mass merchandiser outlets in the
    United States and Canada.



Raw
    Materials



Raw materials and supplies, which are generally available from
    multiple sources, are purchased worldwide and are normally
    available in quantities adequate to meet the needs of the
    Company’s business.



Patents,
    Trademarks and Licenses



Patent protection is considered, in the aggregate, to be of
    material importance in the Company’s marketing of human
    health products in the United States and in most major foreign
    markets. Patents may cover productsper se,
    pharmaceutical formulations, processes for or intermediates
    useful in the manufacture of products or the uses of products.
    Protection for individual products extends for varying periods
    in accordance with the legal life of patents in the various
    countries. The protection afforded, which may also vary from
    country to country, depends upon the type of patent and its
    scope of coverage.



The Food and Drug Administration Modernization Act (the
    “FDA Modernization Act”) includes a Pediatric
    Exclusivity Provision that may provide an additional six months
    of market exclusivity in the United States for indications of
    new or currently marketed drugs if certain agreed upon pediatric
    studies are completed by the applicant. These exclusivity
    provisions were re-authorized by the Prescription Drug User Fee
    Act passed in September 2007. Current U.S. patent law
    provides additional patent term under Patent Term Restoration
    for periods when the patented product was under regulatory
    review before the FDA.






Patent portfolios developed for products introduced by the
    Company normally provide market exclusivity. The Company has the
    following key U.S. patent protection (including Patent Term
    Restoration and Pediatric Exclusivity) for major marketed
    products:



ProductYear of Expiration (in
U.S.)(1)Crixivan2012 (compound)/2018 (formulation)Maxalt(2)2012Singulair2012Cancidas2013 (compound)/2015 (composition)Propecia(3)2013 (formulation/use)Asmanex2014 (use)/2018 (formulation)Avelox(4)2014Dulera2014 (use)/2020 (combination)Integrilin2014 (compound)/2015 (use/formulation)Nasonex2014 (use/formulation)/2018(formulation)Temodar(5)2014Emend2015Follistim AQ2015PegIntron2015 (conjugates)/2020 (Mature IFN-alpha)Zolinza2015 (with pending Patent Term Restoration)Invanz2016 (compound)/2017 (composition)Zostavax2016 (use)Zetia/Vytorin(6)2017NuvaRing2018 (delivery system)Noxafil2019RotaTeq2019Clarinex(7)2020 (formulation)Comvax2020 (method of making/vectors)Intron A2020Recombivax2020 (method of making/vectors)Saphris/Sycrest2020 (use/formulation) (subject to pending Patent Term
    Restoration application)Januvia/Janumet2022 (compound)/2026 (salt)Isentress2023Gardasil2026 (method of making/use/product by process)





(1)Compound patent unless otherwise noted.(2)The Company has determined that it will not enforce an
    additional patent that was set to expire in 2014.(3)By agreement, Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories, Inc. may
    launch a generic in the U.S. on January 1, 2013.(4)By settlement, Teva Pharmaceuticals, Inc. may launch a
    generic in the U.S. as early as February 2014. Six months
    Pediatric Market Exclusivity may extend this date to August
    2014.(5)By agreement, Barr Laboratories, Inc. may launch a generic in
    the U.S. on August 11, 2013.(6)By agreement, Glenmark Pharmaceuticals, Inc. may launch a
    generic in the U.S. on December 12, 2016.(7)By virtue of litigation settlement, generic manufacturers
    have been given the right to enter the U.S. market as of
    2012.



While the expiration of a product patent normally results in a
    loss of market exclusivity for the covered pharmaceutical
    product, commercial benefits may continue to be derived from:
    (i) later-granted patents on processes and intermediates
    related to the most economical method of manufacture of the
    active ingredient of such product; (ii) patents relating to
    the use of such product; (iii) patents relating to novel
    compositions and formulations; and (iv) in the United
    States and certain other countries, market exclusivity that may
    be available under relevant law. The effect of product patent
    expiration on pharmaceutical products also depends upon many
    other factors such as the nature of the market and the position
    of the product in it, the growth of the market, the complexities
    and economics of the process for manufacture of the active
    ingredient of the product and the






requirements of new drug provisions of the Federal Food, Drug
    and Cosmetic Act or similar laws and regulations in other
    countries.



Cozaar

Hyzaar

Cozaar

Hyzaar

Cozaar/Hyzaar

Singulair

Singulair

Singulair

Singulair

Maxalt

Maxalt



Additions to market exclusivity are sought in the United States
    and other countries through all relevant laws, including laws
    increasing patent life. Some of the benefits of increases in
    patent life have been partially offset by a general increase in
    the number of incentives for and use of generic products.
    Additionally, improvements in intellectual property laws are
    sought in the United States and other countries through reform
    of patent and other relevant laws and implementation of
    international treaties.



For further information with respect to the Company’s
    patents, see Item 1A. “Risk Factors” and
    Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,
    Note 12. “Contingencies and Environmental
    Liabilities” below.



Worldwide, all of the Company’s important products are sold
    under trademarks that are considered in the aggregate to be of
    material importance. Trademark protection continues in some
    countries as long as used; in other countries, as long as
    registered. Registration is for fixed terms and can be renewed
    indefinitely.



Royalty income in 2010 on patent and know-how licenses and other
    rights amounted to $347 million. Merck also incurred
    royalty expenses amounting to $1.38 billion in 2010 under
    patent and know-how licenses it holds.



Research
    and Development



The Company’s business is characterized by the introduction
    of new products or new uses for existing products through a
    strong research and development program. Approximately
    15,500 people are employed in the Company’s research
    activities. Research and development expenses were
    $11.0 billion in 2010, $5.8 billion in 2009 and
    $4.8 billion in 2008 (which included restructuring costs in
    all years, as well as $2.4 billion of IPR&D impairment
    charges in 2010). The Company maintains its ongoing commitment
    to research over a broad range of therapeutic areas and clinical
    development in support of new products.



The Company maintains a number of long-term exploratory and
    fundamental research programs in biology and chemistry as well
    as research programs directed toward product development. The
    Company’s research and development model is designed to
    increase productivity and improve the probability of success by
    prioritizing the Company’s research and development
    resources on disease areas of unmet medical needs, scientific
    opportunity and commercial opportunity. Merck is managing its
    research and development portfolio across diverse approaches to
    discovery and development by balancing investments appropriately
    on novel, innovative targets with the potential to have a major
    impact on human health, on developingbest-in-classapproaches, and on delivering maximum value of its new medicines
    and vaccines through new indications and new formulations.
    Another important component of the Company’s science-based
    diversification is based on expanding the Company’s
    portfolio of modalities to include not only small molecules and
    vaccines, but also biologics (peptides, small proteins,
    antibodies) and RNAi. Further, Merck has moved to diversify its
    portfolio through its Merck BioVentures division which has the
    potential to harness the market opportunity presented by
    biological medicine patent expiries






by delivering high quality follow-on biologic products to
    enhance access for patients worldwide. The Company will continue
    to pursue appropriate external licensing opportunities.



The integration efforts for research and development continue to
    focus on integrating the research operations of the legacy
    companies, including providing an effective transition for
    employees, realizing projected merger synergies in the form of
    cost savings and revenue growth opportunities, and maintaining
    momentum in the Company’s late-stage pipeline. Overall, the
    Company’s global operating model will align franchise and
    function as well as align resources with disease area priorities
    and balance capacity across discovery phases and allow the
    Company to act upon those programs with the highest probability
    of success. Additionally, across all disease area priorities,
    the Company’s strategy is designed to expand access to
    worldwide external science and incorporate external research as
    a key component of the Company’s early discovery pipeline
    in order to translate basic research productivity into
    late-stage clinical success.



The Company’s clinical pipeline includes candidates in
    multiple disease areas, including atherosclerosis, cancer,
    cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, infectious diseases,
    inflammatory/autoimmune diseases, insomnia, migraine,
    neurodegenerative diseases, ophthalmics, osteoporosis,
    psychiatric diseases, respiratory diseases and women’s
    health. The Company supplements its internal research with an
    aggressive licensing and external alliance strategy focused on
    the entire spectrum of collaborations from early research to
    late-stage compounds, as well as new technologies.



In the development of human health products, industry practice
    and government regulations in the United States and most foreign
    countries provide for the determination of effectiveness and
    safety of new chemical compounds through preclinical tests and
    controlled clinical evaluation. Before a new drug or vaccine may
    be marketed in the United States, recorded data on preclinical
    and clinical experience are included in the NDA for a drug or
    the Biologics License Application (“BLA”) for a
    vaccine or biologic submitted to the FDA for the required
    approval.





Vaccine development follows the same general pathway as for
    drugs. Preclinical testing focuses on the vaccine’s safety
    and ability to elicit a protective immune response
    (immunogenicity). Pre-marketing vaccine clinical trials are
    typically done in three phases. Initial Phase I clinical studies
    are conducted in normal subjects to evaluate the safety,
    tolerability and immunogenicity of the vaccine candidate.
    Phase II studies are dose-ranging studies. Finally,
    Phase III trials provide the necessary data on
    effectiveness and safety. If successful, the Company submits
    regulatory filings with the appropriate regulatory agencies.
    Also during this stage, the proposed manufacturing facility
    undergoes a pre-approval inspection during which production of
    the vaccine as it is in progress is examined in detail.



In the United States, the FDA review process begins once a
    complete NDA is submitted and received by the FDA. Pursuant to
    the Prescription Drug User Fee Act, the FDA review period
    targets for NDAs or supplemental NDAs is either six months, for
    priority review, or ten months, for a standard review. Within
    60 days after receipt of an NDA, the FDA determines if the
    application is sufficiently complete to permit a substantive
    review. The FDA also assesses, at that time, whether the
    application will be granted a priority review or standard
    review. Once the review timelines are defined, the FDA will
    generally act upon the application within those timelines,
    unless a major






amendment has been submitted (either at the Company’s own
    initiative or the FDA’s request) to the pending
    application. If this occurs, the FDA may extend the review
    period to allow for review of the new information, but by no
    more than 180 days. Extensions to the review period are
    communicated to the Company. The FDA can act on an application
    by issuing an approval letter or a complete response letter.



Research
    and Development Update

The Company currently has a number of candidates under
    regulatory review in the United States and internationally.



Boceprevir is an investigational oral hepatitis C virus
    protease inhibitor currently under development. Full data
    results for two pivotal late-stage studies for boceprevir were
    presented in November 2010 at the annual meeting of the American
    Association for the Study of Liver Disease which showed that
    boceprevir demonstrated significantly higher sustained virologic
    response rates in adult patients who previously failed treatment
    and in adult patients who were new to treatment for chronic
    hepatitis C virus genotype 1 compared to control, the
    primary objective of the studies. Based on these data,
    regulatory applications for boceprevir were submitted in 2010
    and have been accepted for expedited review in both the United
    States and the EU.



MK-0431A XR, the Company’s investigational extended-release
    formulation ofJanumet, was accepted for standard review
    by the FDA in 2010. The Company is also moving forward as
    planned with regulatory filings in countries outside the United
    States. The extended-release formulation ofJanumetis an
    investigational treatment for type 2 diabetes that combines
    sitagliptin, which is the active component ofJanuvia,
    with metformin extended release, a commonly-prescribed
    medication for type 2 diabetes, into a single tablet. This
    formulation is designed to provide a new treatment option for
    health care providers and patients who need two or more oral
    agents to help control their blood sugar with the convenience of
    once daily dosing.



SCH 900121, NOMAC/E2, is an oral contraceptive that combines a
    selective progestin with 17-beta estradiol, an estrogen that is
    identical to the one naturally present in a women’s body.
    The drug is currently under review in the EU. It is also in
    Phase III development for the U.S. market.



MK-3009, Cubicin daptomycin for injection, is currently under
    review in Japan. As previously disclosed, in 2007, Cubist
    Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (“Cubist”) entered into a
    license agreement with Old Merck for the development and
    commercialization of Cubicin, for the treatment of staph
    infection, in Japan where the Company has the commercial rights
    to the drug candidate. Merck will develop and commercialize
    Cubicin through its wholly-owned subsidiary in Japan. Cubist
    commercializes Cubicin in the United States.



MK-0431D is a combination ofJanuviaandZocorfor
    the treatment of diabetes and dyslipidemia which was accepted
    for standard review by the FDA in 2011.



In addition to the candidates under regulatory review, the
    Company has 19 drug candidates in Phase III development.








of the data (safety and efficacy) available to them from both
    trials, they recommended that subjects with a history of stroke
    not receive vorapaxar. The DSMB had observed an increase in
    intracranial hemorrhage in patients with a history of stroke
    that is not outweighed by their considerations of potential
    benefit.



Merck plans to update its projections for regulatory filings for
    vorapaxar once the Company has received the efficacy and safety
    data from TRACER and can determine an updated completion date
    for TRA-2P. TRACER has accumulated the pre-defined number of
    primary and major secondary endpoints, although not all patients
    will continue to receive study drug through the pre-specified
    one-year follow up. Merck continues to expect that the efficacy
    and safety data from TRACER will become available later in 2011
    and will be submitted for presentation at appropriate medical
    meetings.



As a result of these developments, the Company concluded there
    was a 2010 impairment triggering event related to the vorapaxar
    intangible asset. Although there is a great deal of information
    related to these developments that remains unknown to the
    Company, utilizing market participant assumptions and
    considering several different scenarios, the Company concluded
    that its best estimate of the current fair value of the
    intangible asset related to vorapaxar was $350 million,
    which resulted in the recognition of an impairment charge of
    $1.7 billion during 2010. The Company will continue to
    monitor the remaining asset value for further impairment.



MK-8669, ridaforolimus, is a novel mTOR (mammalian target of
    rapamycin) inhibitor being evaluated for the treatment of
    cancer. Merck is currently developing ridaforolimus in multiple
    cancer indications under an exclusive license and collaboration
    agreement with ARIAD Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (“ARIAD”).
    In January 2011, ARIAD announced top-line data showing that
    ridaforolimus met the primary endpoint of improved
    progression-free survival compared to placebo in the
    Phase III SUCCEED trial conducted in patients with
    metastatic soft tissue or bone sarcomas who previously had a
    favorable response to chemotherapy. Complete findings from the
    SUCCEED trial will be submitted for presentation at an upcoming
    medical meeting in 2011. This trial remains active, and study
    participants continue to be followed to gather additional data
    on secondary endpoints, including overall survival and the
    safety profile of ridaforolimus. Merck currently plans to file
    an NDA with the FDA for oral ridaforolimus in 2011, subject to
    final collection and analysis of all available data from the
    trial.



MK-2452,Saflutan(tafluprost), is a preservative free,
    synthetic analogue of the prostaglandin F2α for the
    reduction of elevated intraocular pressure in appropriate
    patients with primary open-angle glaucoma and ocular
    hypertension. In April 2009, Old Merck and Santen Pharmaceutical
    Co., Ltd. announced a worldwide licensing agreement for
    tafluprost. The Company continues to anticipate filing an NDA
    with the FDA forSaflutanin 2011.



As previously disclosed, Old Merck submitted for filing an NDA
    with the FDA for MK-0653C, ezetimibe combined with atorvastatin,
    which is an investigational medication for the treatment of
    dyslipidemia, and the FDA refused to file the application in
    2009. The FDA has identified additional manufacturing and
    stability data that are needed; the Company anticipates filing
    an NDA in 2011.



As previously disclosed, in 2009, Old Merck announced it was
    delaying the filing of the U.S. application for MK-0974,
    telcagepant, the Company’s investigational calcitonin
    gene-related peptide (“CGRP”)-receptor antagonist for
    the acute treatment of migraine. The decision was based on
    findings from a Phase IIa exploratory study in which a small
    number of patients taking telcagepant twice daily for three
    months for the prevention of migraine were found to have marked
    elevations in liver transaminases. The daily dosing regimen in
    the prevention study was different than the dosing regimen used
    in Phase III studies in which telcagepant was
    intermittently administered in one or two doses to treat
    individual migraine attacks as they occurred. Following meetings
    with regulatory agencies at the end of 2009, Merck is conducting
    an additional safety study as part of the overall Phase III
    program for telcagepant. The Company continues to anticipate
    filing an NDA with the FDA in 2011.



SCH 900616,Bridion(sugammadex), is a medication
    designed to rapidly reverse the effects of certain muscle
    relaxants used as part of general anesthesia to ensure patients
    remain immobile during surgical procedures.Bridionhas
    received regulatory approval in the EU, Australia, New Zealand,
    Japan and a number of other markets. Prior to the Merger,
    Schering-Plough received a complete response letter from the FDA
    forBridion.Following






further communication from the FDA, the Company is assessing the
    agency’s feedback in order to determine a new timetable for
    response.



SCH 697243 is an investigational allergy immunotherapy
    sublingual tablet (“AIT”) for grass pollen allergy for
    which the Company has North American rights. In March 2010, data
    from a Phase III study in children and adolescents(ages 5-17 years)with grass pollen allergic rhinoconjunctivitis were presented at
    the American Academy of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology
    Annual Meeting. Allergic rhinoconjunctivitis, or runny nose and
    itchy, watery eyes due to allergies, is a common condition in
    children and adolescents. AIT is a dissolvable oral tablet that
    is designed to prevent allergy symptoms by inducing a protective
    immune response against allergies, thereby treating the
    underlying cause of the disease. Merck is investigating AIT for
    the treatment of grass pollen allergic rhinoconjunctivitis in
    both children and adults. The anticipated U.S. filing date
    for SCH 697243 is under assessment.



SCH 039641, an AIT for ragweed allergy, is also in
    Phase III development for the North American market. The
    anticipated filing date for SCH 039641 is under assessment.



SCH 418131,Zenhale, is a fixed dose combination of two
    previously approved drugs for the treatment of asthma:
    mometasone furoate and formoterol fumarate dehydrate. In
    November 2010, the Company advised the European Medicines Agency
    (“EMA”) that it was withdrawing the application for
    marketing authorization forZenhale, which has been
    approved for use in asthma patients 12 years of age and
    older in the United States asDuleraInhalation Aerosol.
    The Company decided to withdraw the application forZenhaleto address questions outstanding between the
    Company and the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use
    of the EMA. The Company expects to resubmit the application in
    the future.



MK-0431C, a candidate currently in Phase III clinical
    development, combinesJanuviawith pioglitazone, another
    type 2 diabetes therapy. The Company expects it will file an NDA
    for MK-0431C with the FDA in 2012.



MK-0822, odanacatib, is an oral, once-weekly investigational
    treatment for osteoporosis in post-menopausal women.
    Osteoporosis is a disease which reduces bone density and
    strength and results in an increased risk of bone fractures.
    Odanacatib is a cathepsin K inhibitor that selectively inhibits
    the cathepsin K enzyme. Cathepsin K is known to play a central
    role in the function of osteoclasts, which are cells that break
    down existing bone tissue, particularly the protein components
    of bone. Inhibition of cathepsin K is a novel approach to the
    treatment of osteoporosis. Four-year data on odanacatib were
    presented in October 2010 at the American Society for Bone and
    Mineral Research annual meeting. Clinical and preclinical
    studies continue to provide data on the potential of odanacatib
    to increase bone density, cortical thickness and bone strength
    when treating osteoporosis. The Company continues to anticipate
    filing an NDA with the FDA in 2012.



V503 is a nine-valent HPV vaccine in development to expand
    protection against cancer-causing HPV types. The Phase III
    clinical program is underway and Merck anticipates filing a BLA
    with the FDA in 2012.



Tredaptive

Cordaptive

Tredaptive

Tredaptive






MK-0524B is a drug candidate that combines the novel approach to
    raising HDL-C and lowering triglycerides from extended-release
    niacin combined with laropiprant with the proven benefits of
    simvastatin in one combination product. Merck will not seek
    approval for MK-0524B in the United States until it files its
    complete response relating to MK-0524A.



MK-4305 is an investigational dual orexin receptor antagonist, a
    potential new approach to the treatment of chronic insomnia,
    currently in Phase III development. In June 2010, clinical
    results from a Phase IIb study were presented at the Annual
    Meeting of the Associated Professional Sleep Societies which
    showed MK-4305 was significantly more effective than placebo in
    improving overall sleep efficiency at night one and at the end
    of week four in patients with primary insomnia. MK-4305 was
    generally well-tolerated in the study. Orexins are neuropeptides
    (chemical messengers) that are released by specialized neurons
    in the hypothalamus region of the brain and are believed to be
    an important regulator of the brain’s sleep-wake process.
    Phase III trials studying the efficacy and safety of
    MK-4305 in elderly and non-elderly insomnia patients are
    ongoing. Merck anticipates filing regulatory applications for
    MK-4305 in 2012.



SCH 900962,Elonva, corifollitropin alpha injection,
    which has been approved in the EU for controlled ovarian
    stimulation in combination with a GnRH antagonist for the
    development of multiple follicles in women participating in an
    assisted reproductive technology program, is currently in
    Phase III development in the United States. The
    Company continues to anticipate filing an NDA with the FDA in
    2012.



SCH 420814, preladenant, is a selective adenosine 2a receptor
    antagonist in Phase III development for treatment of
    Parkinson’s disease. The Company continues to anticipate
    filing an NDA with the FDA beyond 2012.



V212 is an inactivated varicella-zoster virus vaccine in
    Phase III development for prevention of herpes zoster. The
    Company anticipates filing an NDA with the FDA beyond 2012.








The chart below reflects the Company’s current research
    pipeline as of February 16, 2011. Candidates shown in
    Phase III include specific products. Candidates shown in
    Phase II include the most advanced compound with a specific
    mechanism or, if listed compounds have the same mechanism, they
    are each currently intended for commercialization in a given
    therapeutic area. Small molecules and biologics are given
    MK-number orSCH-numberdesignations and vaccine candidates are given V-number
    designations. Candidates in Phase I, additional indications
    in the same therapeutic area and additional claims, line
    extensions or formulations for in-line products are not shown.





Phase IIAllergySCH 900237,
    Immunotherapy(1)CancerMK-0646 (dalotuzumab)SCH 727965 (dinaciclib)Clostridium difficileInfectionMK-3415AContraception, Medicated
    IUSSCH 900342COPDSCH 527123 (navarixin)Diabetes MellitusMK-3102Hepatitis CMK-7009 (vaniprevir)InsomniaMK-3697MK-6096OsteoporosisMK-5442Pediatric VaccineV419Pneumoconjugate
    VaccineV114ProgeriaSCH 066336 (lonafarnib)PsoriasisSCH 900222Staph InfectionV710ThrombosisMK-4448 (betrixaban)

Phase IIIAllergySCH 697243, Grass
    pollen(1)SCH 039641,
    Ragweed(1)AsthmaSCH 418131 (Zenhale) (EU)AtherosclerosisMK-0524A (extended-release niacin/laropiprant) (U.S.)MK-0524B (extended-release niacin/laropiprant/simvastatin)MK-0859 (anacetrapib)Cervical CancerV503 (HPV vaccine (9 valent))ContraceptionSCH 900121 (NOMAC/E2) (U.S.)DiabetesMK-0431C (sitagliptin/pioglitazone)FertilitySCH 900962 (corifollitropin alfainjection) (U.S.)GlaucomaMK-2452 (Saflutan) (U.S.)InsomniaMK-4305 (suvorexant)MigraineMK-0974 (telcagepant)Neuromuscular Blockade
    ReversalSCH 900616 (Bridion) (U.S.)OsteoporosisMK-0822 (odanacatib)Parkinson’s
    DiseaseSCH 420814 (preladenant)SarcomaMK-8669 (ridaforolimus)ThrombosisSCH 530348 (vorapaxar)Herpes ZosterV212 (inactivated VZV vaccine)

Combination Products in
    DevelopmentAtherosclerosisMK-0653C (ezetimibe/atorvastatin)Under ReviewContraceptionSCH 900121 (NOMAC/E2) (EU)Staph InfectionMK-3009 (daptomycin for
    injection)(2)DiabetesMK-0431A XR (sitagliptin/extended-release metformin) (U.S.)MK-0431D (sitagliptin/simvastatin)Hepatitis CSCH 503034 (boceprevir)Footnotes:(1)North American rights only.(2)Japanese rights only.



Employees



As of December 31, 2010, the Company had approximately
    94,000 employees worldwide, with approximately 37,600
    employed in the United States, including Puerto Rico.
    Approximately 30% of worldwide employees of the Company are
    represented by various collective bargaining groups.



In February 2010, the Company commenced actions under a global
    restructuring program (the “Merger Restructuring
    Program”) in conjunction with the integration of the legacy
    Merck and legacy Schering-Plough businesses. This Merger
    Restructuring Program is intended to optimize the cost structure
    of the combined company. Additional actions under the program
    continued during 2010. As part of the restructuring actions
    taken thus far






under the Merger Restructuring Program, which the Company
    anticipates will be substantially completed by the end of 2012
    (with the exception of certain manufacturing facilities
    actions), the Company expects to reduce its total workforce
    measured at the time of the Merger by approximately 17% across
    the Company worldwide. In addition, the Company has eliminated
    over 2,500 positions which were vacant at the time of the
    Merger. These workforce reductions will primarily come from the
    elimination of duplicative positions in sales, administrative
    and headquarters organizations, as well as from the sale or
    closure of certain manufacturing and research and development
    sites and the consolidation of office facilities. Since
    inception of the program through December 31, 2010, the
    Company has eliminated 11,550 positions under this program.
    These position eliminations are comprised of actual headcount
    reductions, and the elimination of contractors and vacant
    positions.



In October 2008, Old Merck announced a global restructuring
    program (the “2008 Restructuring Program”) to reduce
    its cost structure, increase efficiency, and enhance
    competitiveness. As part of the 2008 Restructuring Program, the
    Company expects to eliminate approximately 7,200 positions
    — 6,800 active employees and 400 vacancies —
    across the Company worldwide by the end of 2011. About 40% of
    these reductions will occur in the United States. Since
    inception of the program through December 31, 2010, the
    Company has eliminated 5,800 positions, including vacancies,
    under this program.



Prior to the Merger, Schering-Plough commenced a Productivity
    Transformation Program, which was designed to reduce and avoid
    costs and increase productivity. The position eliminations
    associated with this program are largely complete.



Environmental
    Matters



The Company believes that there are no compliance issues
    associated with applicable environmental laws and regulations
    that would have a material adverse effect on the Company. The
    Company is also remediating environmental contamination
    resulting from past industrial activity at certain of its sites.
    Expenditures for remediation and environmental liabilities were
    $16 million in 2010, $17 million in 2009 and
    $35 million in 2008, and are estimated at $81 million
    for the years 2011 through 2015. These amounts do not consider
    potential recoveries from other parties. The Company has taken
    an active role in identifying and providing for these costs and,
    in management’s opinion, the liabilities for all
    environmental matters, which are probable and reasonably
    estimable, have been accrued and totaled $185 million at
    December 31, 2010. Although it is not possible to predict
    with certainty the outcome of these environmental matters, or
    the ultimate costs of remediation, management does not believe
    that any reasonably possible expenditures that may be incurred
    in excess of the liabilities accrued should exceed
    $150 million in the aggregate. Management also does not
    believe that these expenditures should have a material adverse
    effect on the Company’s financial position, results of
    operations, liquidity or capital resources for any year.



Merck believes that climate change could present risks to its
    business. Some of the potential impacts of climate change to its
    business include increased operating costs due to additional
    regulatory requirements, physical risks to the Company’s
    facilities, water limitations and disruptions to its supply
    chain. These potential risks are integrated into the
    Company’s business planning including investment in
    reducing energy, water use and greenhouse gas emissions. The
    Company does not believe these risks are material to its
    business at this time.



Geographic
    Area Information



The Company’s operations outside the United States are
    conducted primarily through subsidiaries. Sales worldwide by
    subsidiaries outside the United States were 56% of sales in
    2010, 47% of sales in 2009 and 44% of sales in 2008. The
    increase in proportion of sales outside the United States in
    2010 is primarily due to the inclusion of results of
    Schering-Plough following the close of the Merger.



The Company’s worldwide business is subject to risks of
    currency fluctuations, governmental actions and other
    governmental proceedings abroad. The Company does not regard
    these risks as a deterrent to further expansion of its
    operations abroad. However, the Company closely reviews its
    methods of operations and adopts strategies responsive to
    changing economic and political conditions.






As a result of the Merger, Merck has expanded its operations in
    countries located in Latin America, the Middle East, Africa,
    Eastern Europe and Asia Pacific. Business in these developing
    areas, while sometimes less stable, offers important
    opportunities for growth over time.



Financial information about geographic areas of the
    Company’s business is discussed in Item 8.
    “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” below.



Available
    Information



The Company’s Internet website address iswww.merck.com.The Company will make available,
    free of charge at the “Investors” portion of its
    website, its Annual Report onForm 10-K,Quarterly Reports onForm 10-Q,Current Reports onForm 8-K,and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant
    to Section 13(a) or15(d)of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as
    reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically
    filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange
    Commission (“SEC”).



The Company’s corporate governance guidelines and the
    charters of the Board of Directors’ six standing committees
    are available on the Company’s website atwww.merck.com/about/leadershipand all such
    information is available in print to any stockholder who
    requests it from the Company.



