Item 1.Business.

For financial information and other information about the Company’s segments, see Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” below.

All product or service marks appearing in type form different from that of the surrounding text are trademarks or service marks owned, licensed to, promoted or distributed by Merck, its subsidiaries or affiliates, except as noted. All other trademarks or services marks are those of their respective owners.



Product Sales

Sales of the Company’s top pharmaceutical products, as well as total sales of animal health and consumer care products, were as follows:

($ in millions)201420132012Total Sales$42,237$44,033$47,267Pharmaceutical36,04237,43740,601Januvia3,9314,0044,086Zetia2,6502,6582,567Remicade2,3722,2712,076Janumet2,0711,8291,659Gardasil1,7381,8311,631Isentress1,6731,6431,515ProQuad/M-M-RII/Varivax1,3941,3061,273Nasonex1,0991,3351,268Singulair1,0921,1963,853Animal Health3,4543,3623,399Consumer Care(1)1,5471,8941,952Other Revenues(2)1,1941,3401,315

(1)On October 1, 2014, the Company divested its Consumer Care segment that developed, manufactured and marketed over-the-counter, foot care and sun care products.

(2)Other revenues are primarily comprised of alliance revenue, miscellaneous corporate revenues and third-party manufacturing sales. On October 1, 2013, the Company divested a substantial portion of its third-party manufacturing sales.









Pharmaceutical

The Company’s pharmaceutical products include therapeutic and preventive agents, generally sold by prescription, for the treatment of human disorders. Certain of the products within the Company’s franchises are as follows:

Primary Care and Women’s Health

Cardiovascular:Zetia(ezetimibe) (marketed asEzetrolin most countries outside the United States); andVytorin(ezetimibe/simvastatin) (marketed asInegyoutside the United States), cholesterol modifying medicines.

Diabetes:Januvia(sitagliptin) andJanumet(sitagliptin/metformin HCl) for the treatment of type 2 diabetes.

General Medicine and Women’s Health:NuvaRing(etonogestrel/ethinyl estradiol vaginal ring), a vaginal contraceptive product; Implanon(etonogestrel implant), a single-rod subdermal contraceptive implant/Nexplanon(etonogestrel implant), a single, radiopaque, rod-shaped subdermal contraceptive implant;DuleraInhalation Aerosol (mometasone furoate/formoterol fumarate dihydrate), a combination medicine for the treatment of asthma; andFollistim AQ(follitropin beta injection) (marketed asPuregonin most countries outside the United States), a fertility treatment.

Hospital and Specialty

Hepatitis:PegIntron(peginterferon alpha-2b) andVictrelis(boceprevir), medicines for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C virus (“HCV”).

HIV:Isentress(raltegravir), an HIV integrase inhibitor for use in combination with other antiretroviral agents for the treatment of HIV-1 infection.

Acute Care:Cancidas(caspofungin acetate), an anti-fungal product;Invanz(ertapenem sodium) for the treatment of certain infections;Noxafil(posaconazole) for the prevention of invasive fungal infections;Bridion(sugammadex) Injection, a medication for the reversal of two types of neuromuscular blocking agents used during surgery;Primaxin(imipenem and cilastatin sodium), an anti-bacterial product. The Company acquired the following products pursuant to the Cubist Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (“Cubist”) acquisition that was consummated in January 2015:Cubicin (daptomycin for injection), an I.V. antibiotic for complicated skin and skin structure infections or bacteremia, when caused by designated susceptible  organisms; andZerbaxa (ceftolozane/tazobactam), an I.V. combination product for the treatment of complicated intra-abdominal infections or complicated urinary tract infections, when caused by designated susceptible organisms.

Immunology:Remicade(infliximab), a treatment for inflammatory diseases, andSimponi(golimumab), a once-monthly subcutaneous treatment of certain inflammatory diseases, which the Company markets in Europe, Russia and Turkey.

Other:Cosopt(dorzolamide hydrochloride-timolol maleate ophthalmic solution), which the Company markets outside the United States, andTrusopt(dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution), ophthalmic products.

Oncology

Emend(aprepitant) for the prevention of chemotherapy-induced and post-operative nausea and vomiting;Temodar(temozolomide) (marketed asTemodaloutside the United States), a treatment for certain types of brain tumors; andKeytruda(pembrolizumab) for the treatment of advanced melanoma in patients whose disease has progressed after other therapies.

Diversified Brands

Respiratory:Nasonex(mometasone furoate monohydrate), an inhaled nasal corticosteroid for the treatment of nasal allergy symptoms;Singulair(montelukast), a medicine indicated for the chronic treatment of asthma and the relief of symptoms of allergic rhinitis; andClarinex(desloratadine), a non-sedating antihistamine.

Other:Cozaar(losartan potassium) andHyzaar(losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide), treatments for hypertension;Arcoxia(etoricoxib) for the treatment of arthritis and pain, which the Company markets outside the United States;Fosamax(alendronate sodium) (marketed asFosamacin Japan) for the treatment and prevention of osteoporosis; Propecia(finasteride), a product for the treatment of male pattern hair loss;Zocor(simvastatin), a statin for modifying cholesterol; andRemeron(mirtazapine), an antidepressant.









Vaccines

Gardasil(Human Papillomavirus Quadrivalent [Types 6, 11, 16 and 18] Vaccine, Recombinant), a vaccine to help prevent certain diseases caused by four types of human papillomavirus (“HPV”); ProQuad(Measles, Mumps, Rubella and Varicella Virus Vaccine Live), a pediatric combination vaccine to help protect against measles, mumps, rubella and varicella;M-M-RII (Measles, Mumps and Rubella Virus Vaccine Live), a vaccine to help prevent measles, mumps and rubella;Varivax(Varicella Virus Vaccine Live), a vaccine to help prevent chickenpox (varicella);Zostavax(Zoster Vaccine Live), a vaccine to help prevent shingles (herpes zoster); Pneumovax23 (pneumococcal vaccine polyvalent), a vaccine to help prevent pneumococcal disease; andRotaTeq(Rotavirus Vaccine, Live Oral, Pentavalent), a vaccine to help protect against rotavirus gastroenteritis in infants and children.

Animal Health

The Animal Health segment discovers, develops, manufactures and markets animal health products, including vaccines. Principal products in this segment include:

Livestock Products:Nuflorantibiotic range for use in cattle and swine;Bovilis/Vistavaccine lines for infectious diseases in cattle;Banaminebovine and swine anti-inflammatory;Estrumatefor the treatment of fertility disorders in cattle;Regumate/Matrixfertility management for swine and horses;Resflor, acombination broad-spectrum antibiotic and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug for bovine respiratory disease;Zuprevofor bovine respiratory disease;ZilmaxandRevalorto improve production efficiencies in beef cattle;M+Pacswine pneumonia vaccine; andPorcilisvaccine line for infectious diseases in swine.

Poultry Products:Nobilis/Innovax,vaccine lines for poultry; andParacoxandCoccivaccoccidiosis vaccines.

Companion Animal Products:Nobivacvaccine lines for flexible dog and cat vaccination;Otomax/Mometamax/Posatexear ointments for acute and chronic otitis;Caninsulin/Vetsulindiabetes mellitus treatment for dogs and cats;Panacur/Safeguardbroad-spectrum anthelmintic (de-wormer) for use in many animals;Activyl/Scalibor/Exspotfor protecting against bites from fleas, ticks, mosquitoes and sandflies; andBravecto(fluralaner), a chewable tablet that kills fleas and ticks in dogs for up to 12 weeks, which was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the “FDA”) in 2014 and launched in approximately 30 countries.

Aquaculture Products:Sliceparasiticide for sea lice in salmon;Aquavac/Norvaxvaccines against bacterial and viral disease in fish;Compact PDvaccine for salmon; andAquaflorantibiotic for farm-raised fish.

For a further discussion of sales of the Company’s products, see Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” below.





Product Approvals

In September 2014, Merck announced that the FDA granted accelerated approval ofKeytrudaat a dose of 2 mg/kg every three weeks for the treatment of patients with unresectable or metastatic melanoma and disease progression following ipilimumab and, if BRAF V600 mutation positive, a BRAF inhibitor.Keytrudais the first anti-PD-1 (programmed death receptor-1) therapy approved in the United States.

In August 2014, Merck announced that the FDA approvedBelsomra(suvorexant) for the treatment of adults with insomnia who have difficulty falling asleep and/or staying asleep.Belsomrabecame available in the United States in early 2015. Following receipt of marketing approval,Belsomrawas launched in Japan in November 2014. The Company is continuing with plans to seek approval for suvorexant in other countries around the world.

In December 2014, the Company announced that the FDA approvedGardasil9 (Human Papillomavirus 9-valent Vaccine, Recombinant), Merck’s 9-valent HPV vaccine, for use in girls and young women 9 to 26 years of age for the prevention of cervical, vulvar, vaginal, and anal cancers caused by HPV types 16, 18, 31, 33, 45, 52 and 58, pre-cancerous or dysplastic lesions caused by HPV types 6, 11, 16, 18, 31, 33, 45, 52, and 58, and genital warts caused by HPV types 6 and 11.Gardasil9 is also approved for use in boys 9 to 15 years of age for the prevention of anal cancer caused by HPV types 16, 18, 31, 33, 45, 52 and 58, precancerous or dysplastic lesions caused by HPV types 6, 11, 16, 18, 31, 33, 45, 52 and 58, and genital warts caused by HPV types 6 and 11.Gardasil9 includes the greatest number of HPV types in any available HPV vaccine.









In April 2014, Merck announced that the FDA approvedGrastek(Timothy Grass Pollen Allergen Extract) andRagwitek(Short Ragweed Pollen Allergen Extract) tablets for sublingual use.Grastekis an allergen extract indicated as immunotherapy for the treatment of grass pollen-induced allergic rhinitis with or without conjunctivitis confirmed by positive skin test orin vitrotesting for pollen-specific IgE antibodies for Timothy Grass or cross-reactive grass pollens.Grastekis approved for use in persons 5 through 65 years of age.Ragwitekis an allergen extract indicated as immunotherapy for the treatment of short ragweed pollen-induced allergic rhinitis with or without conjunctivitis confirmed by positive skin test orin vitrotesting for pollen-specific IgE antibodies for short ragweed pollen.Ragwitekis approved for use in adults 18 through 65 years of age. NeitherGrasteknorRagwitekis indicated for the immediate relief of allergic symptoms. The prescribing information forGrastekandRagwitekincludes a boxed warning regarding severe allergic reactions.

In May 2014, Merck announced that the FDA approvedZontivity(vorapaxar) for the reduction of thrombotic cardiovascular events in patients with a history of myocardial infarction or with peripheral arterial disease. The U.S. prescribing information forZontivityincludes a boxed warning regarding bleeding risk. In January 2015,Zontivitywas approved by the European Commission (the “EC”) for coadministration with acetylsalicylic acid and, where appropriate, clopidogrel, to reduce atherothrombotic events in adult patients with a history of myocardial infarction. Merck currently plans to launchZontivityin the European Union (the “EU”) in late 2015 or early 2016.

In September 2014,Vanihep(vaniprevir), an oral twice-daily protease inhibitor for the treatment of chronic HCV was approved in Japan.Vanihepwill be available only in Japan.

Additionally, as part of its acquisition of Cubist, the Company acquiredZerbaxa(ceftolozane/tazobactam), a combination product approved by the FDA in December 2014 to treat complicated intra-abdominal infections or complicated urinary tract infections, when caused by designated susceptible organisms.



Joint Ventures

AstraZeneca LP

On June 30, 2014, AstraZeneca Group Plc (“AstraZeneca”) exercised its option to purchase Merck’s interest in Merck’s joint venture with AstraZeneca. As a result of AstraZeneca’s exercise of its option, the Company no longer records equity income from AZLP and supply sales to AZLP have terminated.

Sanofi Pasteur MSD

In 1994, Merck and Pasteur Mérieux Connaught (now Sanofi Pasteur S.A.) formed a joint venture to market human vaccines in Europe and to collaborate in the development of combination vaccines for distribution in the then-existing EU and the European Free Trade Association. Merck and Sanofi Pasteur contributed, among other things, their European vaccine businesses for equal shares in the joint venture, known as Pasteur Mérieux MSD, S.N.C. (now Sanofi Pasteur MSD, S.N.C.). The joint venture maintains a presence, directly or through affiliates or branches, in Belgium, Italy, Germany, Spain, France, Austria, Ireland, Sweden, Portugal, the Netherlands, Switzerland and the United Kingdom and through distributors in the rest of its territory.



Licenses

In 1998, a subsidiary of Schering-Plough Corporation (“Schering-Plough”) entered into a licensing agreement with Centocor Ortho Biotech Inc. (“Centocor”), a Johnson & Johnson (“J&J”) company, to market

Remicade

, which is prescribed for the treatment of inflammatory diseases. In 2005, Schering-Plough’s subsidiary exercised an option under its contract with Centocor for license rights to develop and commercialize

Simponi

, a fully human monoclonal antibody. The Company has exclusive marketing rights to both products throughout Europe, Russia and Turkey. In 2007, Schering-Plough and Centocor revised their distribution agreement regarding the development, commercialization and distribution of both

Remicade

and

Simponi

, extending the Company’s rights to exclusively market

Remicade

to match the duration of the Company’s exclusive marketing rights for

Simponi

. In addition, Schering-Plough and Centocor agreed to share certain development costs relating to

Simponi

’s auto-injector delivery system. In 2009, the EC approved

Simponi

as a treatment for rheumatoid arthritis and other immune system disorders in two presentations — a novel auto-injector and a prefilled syringe. As a result, the Company’s marketing rights for both products extend for 15 years from the first commercial sale of

Simponi

in the EU following the receipt of pricing and reimbursement approval within the EU. The Company previously lost market exclusivity for

Remicade

in certain smaller European markets and experienced biosimilar competition and a decline in sales in those markets. In February 2015,









the Company lost market exclusivity in major European markets and the Company anticipates a more substantial decline inRemicadesales. Additionally, the Company anticipates mandatory price reductions in certain European markets. All profits derived from Merck’s exclusive distribution of the two products in these countries are equally divided between Merck and J&J.



Competition and the Health Care Environment

Competition

The markets in which the Company conducts its business and the pharmaceutical industry are highly competitive and highly regulated. The Company’s competitors include other worldwide research-based pharmaceutical companies, smaller research companies with more limited therapeutic focus, and generic drug and animal health care manufacturers. The Company’s operations may be adversely affected by generic and biosimilar competition as the Company’s products mature, as well as technological advances of competitors, industry consolidation, patents granted to competitors, competitive combination products, new products of competitors, the generic availability of competitors’ branded products, and new information from clinical trials of marketed products or post-marketing surveillance. In addition, patent positions are increasingly being challenged by competitors, and the outcome can be highly uncertain. An adverse result in a patent dispute can preclude commercialization of products or negatively affect sales of existing products and could result in the recognition of an impairment charge with respect to intangible assets associated with certain products. Competitive pressures have intensified as pressures in the industry have grown. The effect on operations of competitive factors and patent disputes cannot be predicted.

Pharmaceutical competition involves a rigorous search for technological innovations and the ability to market these innovations effectively. With its long-standing emphasis on research and development, the Company is well positioned to compete in the search for technological innovations. Additional resources required to meet market challenges include quality control, flexibility to meet customer specifications, an efficient distribution system and a strong technical information service. The Company is active in acquiring and marketing products through external alliances, such as joint ventures and licenses, and has been refining its sales and marketing efforts to further address changing industry conditions. However, the introduction of new products and processes by competitors may result in price reductions and product displacements, even for products protected by patents. For example, the number of compounds available to treat a particular disease typically increases over time and can result in slowed sales growth or reduced sales for the Company’s products in that therapeutic category.

The highly competitive animal health business is affected by several factors including regulatory and legislative issues, scientific and technological advances, product innovation, the quality and price of the Company’s products, effective promotional efforts and the frequent introduction of generic products by competitors.

Health Care Environment and Government Regulation

Global efforts toward health care cost containment continue to exert pressure on product pricing and market access. In the United States, federal and state governments for many years also have pursued methods to reduce the cost of drugs and vaccines for which they pay. For example, federal laws require the Company to pay specified rebates for medicines reimbursed by Medicaid and to provide discounts for outpatient medicines purchased by certain Public Health Service entities and hospitals serving a disproportionate share of low income or uninsured patients.

Marketing and administrative

expenses in 2014,









2013 and 2012, respectively, for the annual health care reform fee. The increase in expenses in 2014 reflects final regulations on the annual health care reform fee issued by the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) on July 28, 2014. The final IRS regulations accelerated the recognition criteria for the fee obligation by one year to the year in which the underlying sales used to allocate the fee occurred rather than the year in which the fee was paid. As a result of this change, Merck recorded an additional year of expense of $193 million in 2014. The full impact of U.S. health care reform cannot be predicted at this time.

The Company also faces increasing pricing pressure globally from managed care organizations, government agencies and programs that could negatively affect the Company’s sales and profit margins. In the United States, these include (i) practices of managed care groups, federal and state exchanges, and institutional and governmental purchasers, and (ii) U.S. federal laws and regulations related to Medicare and Medicaid, including the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 and the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. Changes to the health care system enacted as part of health care reform in the United States, as well as increased purchasing power of entities that negotiate on behalf of Medicare, Medicaid, and private sector beneficiaries, could result in further pricing pressures. As an example, health care reform is contributing to an increase in the number of patients in the Medicaid program under which sales of pharmaceutical products are subject to substantial rebates.

In addition, in the effort to contain the U.S. federal deficit, the pharmaceutical industry could be considered a potential source of savings via legislative proposals that have been debated but not enacted. These types of revenue generating or cost saving proposals include additional direct price controls in the Medicare prescription drug program (Part D). In addition, Congress may again consider proposals to allow, under certain conditions, the importation of medicines from other countries. It remains very uncertain as to what proposals, if any, may be included as part of future federal budget deficit reduction proposals that would directly or indirectly affect the Company.

Efforts toward health care cost containment remain intense in several European countries. Many countries have continued to announce and execute austerity measures, which include the implementation of pricing actions to reduce prices of generic and patented drugs and mandatory switches to generic drugs. While the Company is taking steps to mitigate the impact in these countries, the austerity measures continued to negatively affect the Company’s revenue performance in 2014 and the Company anticipates the austerity measures will continue to negatively affect revenue performance in 2015. In addition, a majority of countries attempt to contain drug costs by engaging in reference pricing in which authorities examine pre-determined markets for published prices of drugs by brand. The authorities then use price data from those markets to set new local prices for brand-name drugs, including the Company’s. Guidelines for examining reference pricing are usually set in local markets and can be changed pursuant to local regulations.

In addition, in Japan, the pharmaceutical industry is subject to government-mandated biennial price reductions of pharmaceutical products and certain vaccines. Furthermore, the government can order repricings for classes of drugs if it determines that it is appropriate under applicable rules.

Certain markets outside of the United States have also implemented other cost management strategies, such as health technology assessments, which require additional data, reviews and administrative processes, all of which increase the complexity, timing and costs of obtaining product reimbursement and exert downward pressure on available reimbursement.

The Company’s focus on emerging markets has increased. Governments in many emerging markets are also focused on constraining health care costs and have enacted price controls and related measures, such as compulsory licenses, that aim to put pressure on the price of pharmaceuticals and constrain market access. The Company anticipates that pricing pressures and market access challenges will continue in 2015 to varying degrees in the emerging markets.

Beyond pricing and market access challenges, other conditions in emerging market countries can affect the Company’s efforts to continue to grow in these markets, including potential political instability, significant currency fluctuation and controls, financial crises, limited or changing availability of funding for health care, and other developments that may adversely impact the business environment for the Company. Further, the Company may engage third-party agents to assist in operating in emerging market countries, which may affect its ability to realize continued growth and may also increase the Company’s risk exposure.

In addressing cost containment pressures, the Company engages in public policy advocacy with policymakers and continues to work to demonstrate that its medicines provide value to patients and to those who pay for health care. The Company advocates with government policymakers to encourage a long-term approach to









sustainable health care financing that ensures access to innovative medicines and does not disproportionately target pharmaceuticals as a source of budget savings. In markets with historically low rates of health care spending, the Company encourages those governments to increase their investments and adopt market reforms in order to improve their citizens’ access to appropriate health care, including medicines.

Operating conditions have become more challenging under the global pressures of competition, industry regulation and cost containment efforts. Although no one can predict the effect of these and other factors on the Company’s business, the Company continually takes measures to evaluate, adapt and improve the organization and its business practices to better meet customer needs and believes that it is well positioned to respond to the evolving health care environment and market forces.

The pharmaceutical industry is also subject to regulation by regional, country, state and local agencies around the world focused on standards and processes for determining drug safety and effectiveness, as well as conditions for sale or reimbursement.

Of particular importance is the FDA in the United States, which administers requirements covering the testing, approval, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling, and marketing of prescription pharmaceuticals. In some cases, the FDA requirements and practices have increased the amount of time and resources necessary to develop new products and bring them to market in the United States. At the same time, the FDA has committed to expediting the development and review of products bearing the “breakthrough therapy” designation, which appears to have accelerated the regulatory review process for medicines with this designation.

The EU has adopted directives and other legislation concerning the classification, labeling, advertising, wholesale distribution, integrity of the supply chain, enhanced pharmacovigilance monitoring and approval for marketing of medicinal products for human use. These provide mandatory standards throughout the EU, which may be supplemented or implemented with additional regulations by the EU member states. The Company’s policies and procedures are already consistent with the substance of these directives; consequently, it is believed that they will not have any material effect on the Company’s business.

The Company believes that it will continue to be able to conduct its operations, including launching new drugs, in this regulatory environment. (See “Research and Development” below for a discussion of the regulatory approval process.)

Access to Medicines

As a global health care company, Merck’s primary role is to discover and develop innovative medicines and vaccines. The Company also recognizes that it has an important role to play in helping to improve access to its products around the world. The Company’s efforts in this regard are wide-ranging and include a set of principles that the Company strives to embed into its operations and business strategies to guide the Company’s worldwide approach to expanding access to health care. In addition, the Company has many far-reaching philanthropic programs. The Merck Patient Assistance Program provides medicines and adult vaccines for free to people in the United States who do not have prescription drug or health insurance coverage and who, without the Company’s assistance, cannot afford their Merck medicine and vaccines. In 2011, Merck launched “Merck for Mothers,” a long-term effort with global health partners to end preventable deaths from complications of pregnancy and childbirth. Merck has also provided funds to the Merck Foundation, an independent organization, which has partnered with a variety of organizations dedicated to improving global health.



Privacy and Data Protection

The Company is subject to a significant number of privacy and data protection laws and regulations globally. The legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues to evolve. There has been increased attention to privacy and data protection issues in both developed and emerging markets with the potential to affect directly the Company’s business, including additional laws and regulations enacted in the United States, Europe, Asia and Latin America, increased enforcement and litigation activity in the United States and other developed markets, and increased regulatory cooperation among privacy authorities globally. The Company has adopted a comprehensive global privacy program to manage these evolving risks.











Distribution

The Company sells its human health pharmaceutical products primarily to drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals, government agencies and managed health care providers, such as health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit managers and other institutions. Human health vaccines are sold primarily to physicians, wholesalers, physician distributors and government entities. The Company’s professional representatives communicate the effectiveness, safety and value of the Company’s pharmaceutical and vaccine products to health care professionals in private practice, group practices, hospitals and managed care organizations. The Company sells its animal health products to veterinarians, distributors and animal producers.



Raw Materials

Raw materials and supplies, which are generally available from multiple sources, are purchased worldwide and are normally available in quantities adequate to meet the needs of the Company’s business.



Patents, Trademarks and Licenses

Patent protection is considered, in the aggregate, to be of material importance in the Company’s marketing of its products in the United States and in most major foreign markets. Patents may cover productsper se, pharmaceutical formulations, processes for or intermediates useful in the manufacture of products or the uses of products. Protection for individual products extends for varying periods in accordance with the legal life of patents in the various countries. The protection afforded, which may also vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent and its scope of coverage.

The Food and Drug Administration Modernization Act includes a Pediatric Exclusivity Provision that may provide an additional six months of market exclusivity in the United States for indications of new or currently marketed drugs if certain agreed upon pediatric studies are completed by the applicant. Current U.S. patent law provides additional patent term under Patent Term Restoration for periods when the patented product was under regulatory review by the FDA.









Patent portfolios developed for products introduced by the Company normally provide market exclusivity. The Company has the following key U.S. patent protection (including Patent Term Restoration and Pediatric Exclusivity) for major marketed products:

ProductYear of Expiration (in the U.S.)(1)Integrilin(2)2015 (use/formulation)Emend2015Follistim AQ2015Invanz2016 (compound)/2017 (composition)Cubicin(3)2016 (composition)Zostavax2016 (use)Dulera2017 (formulation)/2020 (combination)Zetia(4)/Vytorin2017Asmanex2018 (formulation)Nasonex(5)2018(formulation)NuvaRing2018 (delivery system)Emendfor Injection2019Noxafil2019RotaTeq2019Intron A2020Recombivax2020 (method of making/vectors)Januvia/Janumet/Janumet XR2022 (compound)/2026 (salt)Isentress2023Nexplanon2026 (device)/2027 (device with applicator)Grastek2026 (use)Ragwitek2026 (use)Zontivity2027 (with pending Patent Term Restoration)Gardasil/Gardasil 92028Keytruda2028Zerbaxa2028 (with pending Patent Term Restoration)Sivextro2028 (with Patent Term Restoration)Belsomra2029

(1)Compound patent unless otherwise noted. Certain of the products listed may be the subject of patent litigation. See Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” Note 10. “Contingencies and Environmental Liabilities” below.

(2)By agreement, certain generic manufacturers may launch a generic version of Integrilin in June 2015.

(3)In a December 2014 decision of a district court action against Hospira, Inc. (“Hospira”), the June 2016 patent was found to be valid and infringed. Later patents forCubicin, expiring in September 2019 and November 2020, were found to be invalid. Hospira has appealed the lack of invalidity of the June 2016 patent and the Company has cross-appealed on the invalidity of the later patents.

(4)By agreement, a generic manufacturer may launch a generic version ofZetiain the United States in December 2016.

(5)A district court decision (upheld on appeal to the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit) found that a proposed generic product by Apotex, a generic manufacturer, would not infringe on Merck’sNasonexformulation patent. Thus, if Apotex’s application is approved by the FDA, it can enter the market in the United States with a generic version ofNasonex.

While the expiration of a product patent normally results in a loss of market exclusivity for the covered pharmaceutical product, commercial benefits may continue to be derived from: (i) later-granted patents on processes and intermediates related to the most economical method of manufacture of the active ingredient of such product; (ii) patents relating to the use of such product; (iii) patents relating to novel compositions and formulations; and (iv) in the United States and certain other countries, market exclusivity that may be available under relevant law. The effect of product patent expiration on pharmaceutical products also depends upon many other factors such as the nature of the market and the position of the product in it, the growth of the market, the complexities and economics of the process for manufacture of the active ingredient of the product and the requirements of new drug provisions of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act or similar laws and regulations in other countries.

Additions to market exclusivity are sought in the United States and other countries through all relevant laws, including laws increasing patent life. Some of the benefits of increases in patent life have been partially offset by an increase in the number of incentives for and use of generic products. Additionally, improvements in intellectual property









laws are sought in the United States and other countries through reform of patent and other relevant laws and implementation of international treaties.

The Company has the following key U.S. patent protection for drug candidates under review in the United States by the FDA. Additional patent term may be provided for these pipeline candidates based on Patent Term Restoration and Pediatric Exclusivity.

Under ReviewCurrently AnticipatedYear of Expiration (in the U.S.)MK-8962 (corifollitropin alfa injection)2018 (formulation/use)V419 (pediatric hexavalent combination vaccine)2020 (method of making/vectors)MK-8616 (sugammadex) Injection2021

The Company also has the following key U.S. patent protection for drug candidates in Phase 3 development:

Phase 3 Drug CandidateCurrently AnticipatedYear of Expiration (in the U.S.)V212 (inactivated varicella zoster virus (“VZV”) vaccine)2016 (use)MK-0822 (odanacatib)2024MK-8228 (letermovir)2025MK-2402 (bevenopran)2025MK-8237 (allergy, house dust mites)2026 (use)MK-0859 (anacetrapib)2027MK-3415A (actoxumab/bezlotoxumab)2028MK-5172A (grazoprevir/elbasvir)2030MK-3102 (omarigliptin)2030MK-8931 (BACE Inhibitor)2030MK-8835 (ertugliflozin)2031MK-1439 (doravirine)2031MK-4261 (surotomycin)2031

Unless otherwise noted, the patents in the above charts are compound patents. Each patent is subject to any future patent term restoration of up to five years and six month pediatric market exclusivity, either or both of which may be available. In addition, depending on the circumstances surrounding any final regulatory approval of the compound, there may be other listed patents or patent applications pending that could have relevance to the product as finally approved; the relevance of any such application would depend upon the claims that ultimately may be granted and the nature of the final regulatory approval of the product. Also, regulatory exclusivity tied to the protection of clinical data is complementary to patent protection and, in some cases, may provide more effective or longer lasting marketing exclusivity than a compound’s patent estate. In the United States, the data protection generally runs five years from first marketing approval of a new chemical entity, extended to seven years for an orphan drug indication and 12 years from first marketing approval of a biological product.

For further information with respect to the Company’s patents, see Item 1A. “Risk Factors” and Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” Note 10. “Contingencies and Environmental Liabilities” below.

Worldwide, all of the Company’s important products are sold under trademarks that are considered in the aggregate to be of material importance. Trademark protection continues in some countries as long as used; in other countries, as long as registered. Registration is for fixed terms and can be renewed indefinitely.

Royalty income in 2014 on patent and know-how licenses and other rights amounted to $274 million. Merck also incurred royalty expenses amounting to $1.1 billion in 2014 under patent and know-how licenses it holds.



Research and Development

The Company’s business is characterized by the introduction of new products or new uses for existing products through a strong research and development program. Approximately 11,400 people are employed in the Company’s research activities. Research and development expenses were $7.2 billion in 2014, $7.5 billion in 2013 and $8.2 billion in 2012 (which included restructuring costs and acquisition-related costs in all years). The Company









prioritizes its research and development efforts and focuses on candidates that it believes represent breakthrough science that will make a difference for patients and payers.

The Company maintains a number of long-term exploratory and fundamental research programs in biology and chemistry as well as research programs directed toward product development. The Company’s research and development model is designed to increase productivity and improve the probability of success by prioritizing the Company’s research and development resources on candidates the Company believes are capable of providing unambiguous, promotable advantages to patients and payers and delivering the maximum value of its approved medicines and vaccines through new indications and new formulations. Merck is pursuing emerging product opportunities independent of therapeutic area or modality (small molecule, biologics and vaccines) and is building its biologics capabilities. Further, Merck has moved to diversify its portfolio through a collaboration on the development of biosimilars, which have the potential to harness the market opportunity presented by biological medicine patent expiries by delivering high quality biosimilars to enhance access for patients worldwide. The Company is committed to making externally sourced programs a greater component of its pipeline strategy, with a renewed focus on supplementing its internal research with a licensing and external alliance strategy focused on the entire spectrum of collaborations from early research to late-stage compounds, as well as access to new technologies.

The Company also reviews its pipeline to examine candidates which may provide more value through out-licensing. The Company is evaluating certain late-stage clinical development and platform technology assets to determine their out-licensing or sale potential. In 2014, the Company entered into an agreement to divest its Sirna Therapeutics, Inc. subsidiary and related RNAi technology assets and out-licensed an investigational therapeutic antibody candidate to Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (“Sun Pharma”).

The Company’s clinical pipeline includes candidates in multiple disease areas, including atherosclerosis, cancer, cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, infectious diseases, inflammatory/autoimmune diseases, neurodegenerative diseases, osteoporosis, respiratory diseases and women’s health.

In the development of human health products, industry practice and government regulations in the United States and most foreign countries provide for the determination of effectiveness and safety of new chemical compounds through preclinical tests and controlled clinical evaluation. Before a new drug or vaccine may be marketed in the United States, recorded data on preclinical and clinical experience are included in the New Drug Application (“NDA”) for a drug or the Biologics License Application (“BLA”) for a vaccine or biologic submitted to the FDA for the required approval.

Vaccine development follows the same general pathway as for drugs. Preclinical testing focuses on the vaccine’s safety and ability to elicit a protective immune response (immunogenicity). Pre-marketing vaccine clinical









trials are typically done in three phases. Initial Phase 1 clinical studies are conducted in normal subjects to evaluate the safety, tolerability and immunogenicity of the vaccine candidate. Phase 2 studies are dose-ranging studies. Finally, Phase 3 trials provide the necessary data on effectiveness and safety. If successful, the Company submits regulatory filings with the appropriate regulatory agencies. Also during this stage, the proposed manufacturing facility undergoes a pre-approval inspection during which production of the vaccine as it is in progress is examined in detail.

The FDA has four program designations — Fast Track, Breakthrough Therapy, Accelerated Approval, and Priority Review — to facilitate and expedite development and review of new drugs to address unmet medical needs in the treatment of serious or life-threatening conditions. The Fast Track designation provides pharmaceutical manufacturers with opportunities for frequent interactions with FDA reviewers during the product’s development and the ability for the manufacturer to do a rolling submission of the NDA/BLA. A rolling submission allows completed portions of the application to be submitted and reviewed by the FDA on an ongoing basis. The Breakthrough Therapy designation provides manufacturers with all of the features of the Fast Track designation as well as intensive guidance on implementing an efficient development program for the product and a commitment by the FDA to involve senior managers and experienced review staff in the review. The Accelerated Approval designation allows the FDA to approve a product based on an effect on a surrogate or intermediate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict a product’s clinical benefit and generally requires the manufacturer to conduct required post-approval confirmatory trials to verify the clinical benefit. The Priority Review designation means that the FDA’s goal is to take action on the NDA/BLA within six months, compared to ten months under standard review.

In addition, under the Generating Antibiotic Incentives Now Act, the FDA may grant Qualified Infectious Disease Product (“QIDP”) status to antibacterial or antifungal drugs intended to treat serious or life threatening infections including those caused by antibiotic or antifungal resistant pathogens, novel or emerging infectious pathogens, or other qualifying pathogens. QIDP designation offers certain incentives for development of qualifying drugs, including Priority Review of the NDA when filed, eligibility for Fast Track designation, and a five-year extension of applicable exclusivity provisions under the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act.

The primary method the Company uses to obtain marketing authorization of pharmaceutical products in the EU is through the “centralized procedure.” This procedure is compulsory for certain pharmaceutical products, in particular those using biotechnological processes, and is also available for certain new chemical compounds and products. A company seeking to market an innovative pharmaceutical product through the centralized procedure must file a complete set of safety data and efficacy data as part of a Marketing Authorization Application (“MAA”) with the European Medicines Agency (“EMA”). After the EMA evaluates the MAA, it provides a recommendation to the EC and the EC then approves or denies the MAA. It is also possible for new chemical products to obtain marketing authorization in the EU through a “mutual recognition procedure” in which an application is made to a single member state and, if the member state approves the pharmaceutical product under a national procedure, the applicant may submit that approval to the mutual recognition procedure of some or all other member states.

Outside of the United States and the EU, the Company submits marketing applications to national regulatory authorities. Examples of such are the Pharmaceutical Medical Devices Agency in Japan, Health Canada, Agencia









Nacional de Vigilancia in Brazil, Korea Food and Drug Administration in South Korea, and Therapeutic Goods Administration in Australia. Each country has a separate and independent review process and timeline. In many markets, approval times can be longer as the regulatory authority requires approval in a major market, such as the United States or the EU, and issuance of a Certificate of Pharmaceutical Product from that market before initiating their local review process.

Research and Development Update

The Company currently has several candidates under regulatory review in the United States or internationally.

Keytrudais an anti-PD-1 (programmed death receptor-1) therapy under review by the EMA for the treatment of advanced melanoma. In September 2014, the FDA approvedKeytrudaat a dose of 2 mg/kg every three weeks for the treatment of patients with unresectable or metastatic melanoma and disease progression following ipilimumab and, if BRAF V600 mutation positive, a BRAF inhibitor.Keytrudais the first anti-PD-1 therapy approved in the United States.

TheKeytrudaclinical development program also includes studies in more than 30 cancers including: bladder, colorectal, gastric, head and neck, melanoma, non-small-cell lung, renal, triple negative breast and hematological malignancies. In addition, the Company has announced a number of collaborations with other pharmaceutical companies to evaluate novel combination regimens withKeytruda. In October 2014,Keytrudawas granted Breakthrough Therapy Designation by the FDA for the treatment of patients with Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor mutation-negative, and Anaplastic Lymphoma Kinase rearrangement-negative non-small-cell lung cancer whose disease has progressed on or following platinum-based chemotherapy. The Company anticipates submitting a supplemental BLA to the FDA in mid-2015 forKeytruda.

MK-8616,Bridion(sugammadex) Injection, is an investigational agent for the reversal of neuromuscular blockade induced by rocuronium or vecuronium (neuromuscular blocking agents). Neuromuscular blockade is used in anesthesiology to induce muscle relaxation during surgery. In September 2013, Merck announced that it had received a CRL from the FDA for the resubmission of the NDA forBridion. To address the CRL, the Company conducted a new hypersensitivity study and, in October 2014, resubmitted the NDA to the FDA. The Company anticipates an FDA advisory committee meeting will be held on March 18, 2015 to reviewBridion. If approved, the Company expects to launchBridionin the United States later in 2015.Bridionis approved and has been launched in many countries outside of the United States.

V419, DTaP5-IPV-Hib-HepB, is an investigational pediatric hexavalent vaccine that the Company is developing in partnership with Sanofi Pasteur under review by the FDA and the EMA. If approved,V419 would be the first pediatric combination vaccine in the United States designed to help protect against six important diseases - diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis (whooping cough), polio (poliovirus types 1, 2, and 3), invasive disease caused byHaemophilus influenzaetype b (Hib), and hepatitis B. If approved, V419 will be co-promoted in the United States via a partnership with Sanofi Pasteur and marketed via the SPMSD joint venture in Europe.

MK-3102, omarigliptin, is an investigational once-weekly dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (“DPP-4”) inhibitor in development for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. In November 2014, Merck announced that the Company has submitted a new drug application for omarigliptin to the Japanese Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency. Omarigliptin is in Phase 3 clinical development in the United States.

MK-1986,Sivextro(tedizolid phosphate), a once-daily oxazolidinone antibiotic developed for both intravenous and oral administration for the treatment of acute bacterial skin and skin structuring infections (“ABSSSI”) caused by certain Gram-positive organisms, is under review by the EMA. In January 2015, Merck announced that the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (the “CHMP”) of the EMA has adopted a positive opinion recommending approval ofSivextrofor the treatment of ABSSSI in adults. Merck acquiredSivextroas a part of its purchase of Cubist. If the EC affirms the CHMP opinion, it will grant a centralized marketing authorization with unified labeling that is valid in the 28 countries that are members of the EU, as well as European Economic Area members, Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway.Sivextrois approved in the United States and is indicated for the treatment of adults with ABSSSI caused by designated susceptible Gram-positive organisms. The Company is conducting a Phase 3 clinical trial to assess the safety and efficacy ofSivextroin adult patients with ventilated nosocomial pneumonia, including ventilator-associated bacterial pneumonia (“VABP”) and ventilated hospital-acquired bacterial pneumonia (“ventilated HABP”). In 2013, the FDA designatedSivextroas a QIDP for its now approved indication in ABSSSI, as well as for









its potential indication in ventilated nosocomial pneumonia, including VABP and ventilated HABP, in each of the I.V. and oral dosage forms.

MK-7625A,Zerbaxa, a combination product for the treatment of certain serious bacterial infections in adults, is under review by the EMA. Merck acquiredZerbaxaas a part of its purchase of Cubist. In December 2014,Zerbaxawas approved by the FDA for the treatment of adults with complicated urinary tract infections caused by designated susceptible Gram-negative organisms or with complicated intra-abdominal infections caused by designated susceptible Gram-negative and Gram-positive organisms. The Company is conducting a Phase 3 clinical trial to assess the safety and efficacy ofZerbaxain adult patients with ventilated nosocomial pneumonia, including VABP and ventilated HABP. The FDA designatedZerbaxaas a QIDP for its now approved indications as well as for its potential indication in ventilated nosocomial pneumonia, including VABP and ventilated HABP.

V503,Gardasil9, the Company’s nine-valent HPV vaccine that helps protect against certain HPV-related diseases, is under review by the EMA. V503 incorporates antigens against five additional cancer-causing HPV types as compared withGardasil.Gardasil9 was approved by the FDA in December 2014.

MK-8962, corifollitropin alfa injection, is an investigational fertility treatment under review by the FDA for controlled ovarian stimulation in women participating in assisted reproductive technology. In July 2014, Merck received a CRL from the FDA for its NDA for corifollitropin alfa injection. Merck is reviewing its options with respect to this drug candidate in response to the CRL. Corifollitropin alfa injection is marketed asElonvain certain markets outside of the United States.

In addition to the candidates under regulatory review, the Company has several drug candidates in Phase 3 development. The Company anticipates filing an NDA or a BLA, as applicable, with the FDA with respect to certain of these candidates in 2015.

MK-5172A, a once daily, fixed-dose, combination, chronic HCV treatment regimen consisting of MK-5172, grazoprevir, an investigational HCV NS3/4A protease inhibitor, and MK-8742, elbasvir, an investigational HCV NS5A replication complex inhibitor, began Phase 3 clinical trials in June 2014. MK-5172A is being investigated in a broad clinical program that includes studies in patients with multiple HCV genotypes who are treatment-naïve, treatment failures, or who fit into other important HCV subpopulations such as patients with cirrhosis and those co-infected with HIV. The Company expects to file an NDA with the FDA in the first half of 2015 for MK-5172A. On January 30, 2015, the Company received notification from the FDA of its intent to rescind Breakthrough Therapy Designation status for this combination treatment regimen, citing the availability of other recently approved treatments for Genotype 1 patients. The Company is discussing this matter with the FDA and does not expect that it will impact its ability to file an NDA for this combination regimen or the timing of that filing.

The Company has started the Phase 2 C-CREST studies to study combination regimens of grazoprevir and MK-3682 (formerly IDX21437) with either elbasvir or MK-8408 for the treatment of HCV infection. The Company expects to begin Phase 3 studies in 2015.









to a particular reported cause or causes of death. Merck continues to collect data from the blinded extension study and is planning additional analyses of data from the trial, including an independent re-adjudication of major adverse cardiovascular events, in support of regulatory submissions. Merck plans to submit an NDA to the FDA for odanacatib in 2015. Merck also plans to submit applications to the EMA and the Ministry of Health, Labour, and Welfare in Japan.

MK-8237 is an investigational allergy immunotherapy tablet for house dust mite allergy. In 2014, the FDA approvedGrastek, a Timothy grass pollen allergen extract sublingual immunotherapy tablet, andRagwitek, a short ragweed pollen allergen extract sublingual immunotherapy tablet. BothGrastekandRagwitek, as well as the ongoing program for MK-8237, are part of a North America partnership between Merck and ALK-Abello.

MK-8931 is Merck’s novel investigational oral ß-amyloid precursor protein site-cleaving enzyme (“BACE”) inhibitor for the treatment of Alzheimer’s disease being studied in a Phase 3 trial (APECS) designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of MK-8931 versus placebo in patients with amnestic mild cognitive impairment due to Alzheimer’s disease, also known as prodromal Alzheimer’s disease. MK-8931 is also being studied in another Phase 3 trial versus placebo in patients with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer’s disease (EPOCH).

MK-0859, anacetrapib, is an investigational inhibitor of the cholesteryl ester transfer protein (“CETP”) in development for raising HDL-C and reducing LDL-C. Anacetrapib is being evaluated in a large, event-driven cardiovascular clinical outcomes trial, REVEAL (Randomized EValuation of the Effects of Anacetrapib Through Lipid-modification), involving patients with preexisting vascular disease that is predicted to be completed in 2017.

MK-3415A, actoxumab/bezlotoxumab, an investigational candidate for the prevention ofClostridium difficileinfection recurrence, is a combination of two monoclonal antibodies used to treat patients with a single infusion.

MK-4261, surotomycin, is an investigational oral antibiotic in development for the treatment ofClostridium difficileassociated diarrhea. Merck acquired surotomycin as part of its purchase of Cubist. The FDA has designated surotomycin as a QIDP.

MK-8228, letermovir, is an investigational oral, once-daily antiviral candidate for the prevention and treatment of Human Cytomegalovirus infection. Letermovir has received Orphan Drug Status in the EU and in the United States, where it has also been granted Fast Track Designation.

MK-8835, ertugliflozin, is an investigational oral sodium glucose cotransporter-2 (“SGLT2”) inhibitor being evaluated for the treatment of type 2 diabetes in collaboration with Pfizer Inc.

MK-1293 is an insulin glargine candidate for the treatment of patients with type 1 and type 2 diabetes. In February 2014, the Company announced that it had expanded its collaboration with Samsung Bioepis to develop, manufacture and commercialize MK-1293. Under the terms of the agreement, the companies will collaborate on clinical development, regulatory filings and manufacturing. If approved, Merck will commercialize this candidate.

V212 is an inactivated VZV vaccine in development for the prevention of herpes zoster. The Company is conducting two Phase 3 trials, one in autologous hematopoietic cell transplant patients and the other in patients with solid tumor malignancies undergoing chemotherapy and hematological malignancies.

MK-1439, doravirine, is an investigational, once-daily oral next-generation non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor being developed by Merck for the treatment of HIV-1 infection.

MK-2402, bevenopran, is an oral investigational therapy in development as a potential treatment for opioid-induced constipation in patients with chronic, non-cancer pain. Merck acquired bevenopran as a part of its purchase of Cubist.

In September 2014, Merck and Sun Pharma entered into an exclusive worldwide licensing agreement for Merck’s investigational therapeutic antibody candidate, MK-3222, tildrakizumab, for the treatment of chronic plaque psoriasis, a skin ailment. Under terms of the agreement, Sun Pharma acquired worldwide rights to tildrakizumab for use in all human indications from Merck in exchange for an upfront payment of $80 million. Merck will continue all clinical development and regulatory activities, which will be funded by Sun Pharma. Upon product approval, Sun Pharma will be responsible for regulatory activities, including subsequent submissions, pharmacovigilance, post approval studies, manufacturing and commercialization of the approved product. Merck is also eligible to receive future payments associated with regulatory (including product approval) and sales milestones, as well as tiered royalties ranging from mid-single digit through teen percentage rates on sales.









In May 2014, Merck and Endocyte, Inc. (“Endocyte”) (the Company’s collaboration partner) announced the withdrawal of the conditional MAA from the EMA for vintafolide for the treatment of adult patients with folate receptor-positive, platinum-resistant ovarian cancer, in combination with pegylated liposomal doxorubicin (“PLD”). The companies’ decision was based on review of interim data from the PROCEED trial. The PROCEED trial has been terminated based on the Data Safety Monitoring Board’s (the “DSMB”) recommendation that the study be stopped because vintafolide in combination with PLD versus PLD alone did not meet the pre-specified criteria for progression-free survival to allow continuation of the study. The DSMB did not identify any safety concerns for the patients enrolled in the PROCEED trial. In June 2014, Merck returned worldwide rights for vintafolide in all indications to Endocyte.

The chart below reflects the Company’s research pipeline as of February 20, 2015. Candidates shown in Phase 3 include specific products and the date such candidate entered into Phase 3 development. Candidates shown in Phase 2 include the most advanced compound with a specific mechanism or, if listed compounds have the same mechanism, they are each currently intended for commercialization in a given therapeutic area. Small molecules and biologics are given MK-number designations and vaccine candidates are given V-number designations. Except as otherwise noted, candidates in Phase 1, additional indications in the same therapeutic area and additional claims, line extensions or formulations for in-line products are not shown.







Phase 2Phase 3 (Phase 3 entry date)Under Review

Alzheimer’s DiseaseMK-7622AsthmaMK-1029Bacterial InfectionMK-7655 (relebactam)CancerMK-2206MK-8628Contraception, Medicated IUSMK-8342Contraception, Next Generation RingMK-8342BEbola VaccineV920Gastric CancerMK-3475KeytrudaHeart FailureMK-1242 (vericiguat)(1)Hepatitis CMK-3682/MK-8742 (elbasvir)/MK-5172 (grazoprevir)MK-3682/MK-8408/MK-5172(grazoprevir)Pneumoconjugate VaccineV114

AllergyMK-8237, House Dust Mite (March 2014)(1,2)Alzheimer’s DiseaseMK-8931 (December 2013)AtherosclerosisMK-0859 (anacetrapib) (May 2008)Bladder CancerMK-3475Keytruda(October 2014)Clostridium difficileInfectionMK-3415A (actoxumab/bezlotoxumab)(November 2011)MK-4261 (surotomycin) (July 2012)CMV Prophylaxis in Transplant PatientsMK-8228 (letermovir) (June 2014)Diabetes MellitusMK-3102 (omarigliptin) (September 2012)MK-8835 (ertugliflozin) (November 2013)(1)MK-1293 (February 2014)(1)Head and Neck CancerMK-3475Keytruda(November 2014)Hepatitis CMK-5172A (grazoprevir/elbasvir) (June 2014)Herpes ZosterV212 (inactivated VZV vaccine) (December 2010)HIVMK-1439 (doravirine) (December 2014)Non-Small-Cell Lung CancerMK-3475Keytruda(September 2014)Opioid-Induced ConstipationMK-2402 (bevenopran) (October 2012)OsteoporosisMK-0822 (odanacatib) (September 2007)

Acute Bacterial Skin & Skin Structure Infections (ABSSSI)MK-1986Sivextro(EU)Complicated Intra-Abdominal Infections (cIAI) & Complicated Urinary Tract Infections (cUTI)MK-7625AZerbaxa(EU)Diabetes MellitusMK-3102 (omarigliptin) (Japan)FertilityMK-8962 (corifollitropin alfa injection) (U.S.)(3)HPV-Related CancersV503Gardasil9 (EU)MelanomaMK-3475Keytruda(EU)Neuromuscular Blockade ReversalMK-8616Bridion(U.S.)(4)Pediatric Hexavalent Combination VaccineV419 (U.S./EU)(5)

Footnotes:(1)Being developed in a collaboration.(2)North American rights only.(3)In July 2014, Merck received a CRL from the FDA for corifollitropin alfa injection (MK-8962). Merck is reviewing its options with respect to this drug candidate in response to the CRL.(4)In September 2013, Merck received a CRL from the FDA for the resubmission of the NDA forBridion(MK-8616). To address the CRL, the Company conducted a new hypersensitivity study and has resubmitted the NDA to the FDA.(5)V419 is being developed in partnership with Sanofi Pasteur and, if approved, will be co-promoted via a U.S. partnership and marketed via the SPMSD joint venture in Europe.





Employees

As of December 31, 2014, the Company had approximately 70,000 employees worldwide, with approximately 26,800 employed in the United States, including Puerto Rico. Approximately 31% of worldwide employees of the Company are represented by various collective bargaining groups.









2013 Restructuring Program

In 2013, the Company announced a global restructuring program (the “2013 Restructuring Program”) as part of its global initiative to sharpen its commercial and research and development focus. As part of the program, the Company expects to reduce its total workforce by approximately 8,500 positions. These workforce reductions will primarily come from the elimination of positions in sales, administrative and headquarters organizations, as well as research and development. The Company will also reduce its global real estate footprint and continue to improve the efficiency of its manufacturing and supply network. Since inception of the 2013 Restructuring Program through December 31, 2014, Merck has eliminated approximately 6,095 positions comprised of employee separations, as well as the elimination of contractors and vacant positions. The remaining actions under the 2013 Restructuring Program are expected to be substantially completed by the end of 2015.

Merger Restructuring Program

The global restructuring program (the “Merger Restructuring Program”) that was initiated in 2010 subsequent to the Merck and Schering-Plough merger (the “Merger”) is intended to streamline the cost structure of the combined company. Further actions under this program were initiated in 2011. The workforce reductions associated with this plan relate to the elimination of positions in sales, administrative and headquarters organizations, as well as from the sale or closure of certain manufacturing and research and development sites and the consolidation of office facilities. Since inception of the Merger Restructuring Program through December 31, 2014, Merck has eliminated approximately 28,410 positions comprised of employee separations, as well as the elimination of contractors and vacant positions. Approximately 3,440 position eliminations remain pending under this program and an older program as of December 31, 2014. The non-manufacturing related restructuring actions under the Merger Restructuring Program were substantially completed by the end of 2013. The remaining actions under this program relate to ongoing manufacturing facility rationalizations, which are expected to be substantially completed by 2016.



Environmental Matters

The Company believes that there are no compliance issues associated with applicable environmental laws and regulations that would have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company is also remediating environmental contamination resulting from past industrial activity at certain of its sites. Expenditures for remediation and environmental liabilities were $12 million in 2014, and are estimated at $53 million in the aggregate for the years 2015 through 2019. These amounts do not consider potential recoveries from other parties. The Company has taken an active role in identifying and providing for these costs and, in management’s opinion, the liabilities for all environmental matters that are probable and reasonably estimable have been accrued and totaled $125 million and $213 million at December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Although it is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of these matters, or the ultimate costs of remediation, management does not believe that any reasonably possible expenditures that may be incurred in excess of the liabilities accrued should exceed $66 million in the aggregate. Management also does not believe that these expenditures should have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources for any year.

Merck believes that climate change could present risks to its business. Some of the potential impacts of climate change to its business include increased operating costs due to additional regulatory requirements, physical risks to the Company’s facilities, water limitations and disruptions to its supply chain. These potential risks are integrated into the Company’s business planning including investment in reducing energy, water use and greenhouse gas emissions. The Company does not believe these risks are material to its business at this time.



Geographic Area Information

The Company’s operations outside the United States are conducted primarily through subsidiaries. Sales worldwide by subsidiaries outside the United States were 60% of sales in 2014, 59% of sales in 2013 and 57% of sales in 2012.

The Company’s worldwide business is subject to risks of currency fluctuations, governmental actions and other governmental proceedings abroad. The Company does not regard these risks as a deterrent to further expansion of its operations abroad. However, the Company closely reviews its methods of operations and adopts strategies responsive to changing economic and political conditions.









Merck has expanded its operations in countries located in Latin America, the Middle East, Africa, Eastern Europe and Asia Pacific. Business in these developing areas, while sometimes less stable, offers important opportunities for growth over time.

Financial information about geographic areas of the Company’s business is provided in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” below.



Available Information

The Company’s Internet website address iswww.merck.com.The Company will make available, free of charge at the “Investors” portion of its website, its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).

The Company’s corporate governance guidelines and the charters of the Board of Directors’ four standing committees are available on the Company’s website atwww.merck.com/about/leadershipand all such information is available in print to any stockholder who requests it from the Company.



