ITEM 1. BUSINESS



Unless the context requires otherwise, references in this report to “Old Dominion,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” and “our” refer to Old Dominion Freight Line, Inc.



Overview



We are a leading, less-than-truckload (“LTL”), union-free motor carrier providing regional, inter-regional and national LTL services, which include ground and air expedited transportation and consumer household pickup and delivery through a single integrated organization. We were the fifth largest LTL motor carrier in the United States, as measured by 2013 revenue, according toTransport Topics. In addition to our core LTL services, we offer a broad range of value-added services including international freight forwarding, container drayage, truckload brokerage, supply chain consulting and warehousing. Our services are complemented by our technological capabilities, which we believe provide the tools to improve the efficiency of our operations while empowering our customers to manage their individual shipping needs. More than 95% of our revenue is derived from transporting LTL shipments for our customers, whose demand for our services is generally tied to industrial production and the overall health of the U.S. domestic economy.



We have increased our revenue and customer base over the past five years primarily through organic growth. Our infrastructure allows us to provide next-day and second-day service within each of our six regions covering the continental United States, as well as inter-regional and national service between these regions. To support our ongoing expansion, we added 12 new service centers during the past five years for a total of222atDecember 31, 2014.



We believe our growth can be attributed to our focus on meeting our customers’ complete supply chain needs from a single point of contact while providing a superior level of customer service at a fair and equitable price. Our integrated structure allows us to offer our customers consistent high-quality service from origin to destination, and we believe our operating structure and proprietary information systems also enable us to efficiently manage our operating costs.



We were founded in 1934 and incorporated in Virginia in 1950. Our principal executive offices are located at 500 Old Dominion Way, Thomasville, North Carolina 27360. Please refer to the Balance Sheets and Statements of Operations included in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this report for information regarding our total assets, revenue from operations and net income.












Our Industry



Trucking companies provide transportation services to virtually every industry operating in the United States and generally offer higher levels of reliability and faster transit times than other surface transportation options. The trucking industry is comprised principally of two types of motor carriers: LTL and truckload. LTL carriers typically pick up multiple shipments from multiple customers on a single truck and then route that freight for delivery through service centers where the freight may be transferred to other trucks with similar destinations. In contrast, truckload carriers generally dedicate an entire truck to one customer from origin to destination.



According to the American Trucking Associations, total U.S. freight transportation revenue in 2013 was $840.0 billion, of which the trucking industry accounted for 81.2%. The LTL sector had revenue in 2013 of $54.4 billion, which represented 6.5% of total U.S. freight transportation revenue. In contrast to truckload carriers, LTL motor carriers require expansive networks of local pickup and delivery (“P&D”) service centers, as well as larger breakbulk, or hub, facilities. Significant capital is required to create and maintain a network of service centers and a fleet of tractors and trailers. The high fixed costs and capital spending requirements for LTL motor carriers make it difficult for new start-up or small operators to effectively compete with established carriers. In addition, successful LTL motor carriers generally employ, and regularly update, a high level of technology-based systems and processes that provide information to customers and help reduce operating costs.



The LTL industry is highly competitive on the basis of service and price and has consolidated significantly since the industry was deregulated in 1980. Based on 2013 revenue as reported inTransport Topics, the largest 10 and 25 LTL motor carriers accounted for approximately 47.3% and 57.8%, respectively, of the total LTL market. We believe consolidation in our industry will continue due to customer demand for transportation providers offering both national and regional LTL as well as other complementary value-added services.



Competition



We compete with regional, inter-regional and national LTL carriers and, to a lesser extent, with truckload carriers, small package carriers, airfreight carriers and railroads. We also compete with, and provide transportation services to, third-party logistics providers that determine both the mode of transportation and the carrier. We compete with several large and diversified transportation service providers, each of which may have a broader global network and a wider range of services than we do. Competition is based primarily on service, price and business relationships. We believe we are able to compete effectively in our markets by providing high-quality and timely service at a fair and equitable price.



Throughout our organization, we continuously seek to improve customer service by maximizing on-time performance and minimizing cargo claims. We believe our transit times are generally faster than those of our principal national competitors, in part because of our more efficient service center network, use of team drivers and proprietary technology. In addition, we provide greater geographic coverage than most of our regional competitors. Our diversified mix and scope of regional, inter-regional and national LTL service, combined with our value-added service offerings, enables us to provide our customers with a single source to meet their shipping and logistics needs. We believe this provides us with a distinct advantage over most of our regional, multi-regional and national competition.



We utilize flexible scheduling and train our employees to perform multiple tasks, which we believe allows us to achieve greater productivity and higher levels of customer service than our competitors. We believe our focus on employee communication, continued education, development and motivation strengthens the relationships and trust among our employees.



Service Center Operations



AtDecember 31, 2014, we operated through222service center locations, of which we owned176and leased46. We operate a total of ten major breakbulk facilities located in Rialto, California; Atlanta, Georgia; Chicago, Illinois; Indianapolis, Indiana; Greensboro, North Carolina; Harrisburg, Pennsylvania; Memphis and Morristown, Tennessee; Dallas, Texas; and Salt Lake City, Utah, while using various other service centers for additional limited breakbulk activity in order to serve our next-day markets. Our service centers are strategically located in six regions of the country so that we can provide the highest quality service and minimize freight rehandling costs.



Our service centers are responsible for the pickup and delivery of freight within their local service area. Each night, our service centers load outbound freight for transport to other service centers for delivery. All inbound freight received by the service center in the evening or during the night is generally scheduled for local delivery the next business day, unless a










customer requests a different delivery schedule. Our management reviews the productivity and service performance of each service center on a daily basis to help ensure quality service and efficient operations.



While we have established primary responsibility for customer service at the local service center level, our customers may access information and initiate transactions through our centralized customer service department located at our corporate office or through several other gateways, such as our website, mobile applications, electronic data interchange (“EDI”), email and fax notification systems and automated voice response systems. Our systems offer direct access to information such as freight tracking, shipping documents, rate quotes, rate databases and account activity. These centralized systems and our customer service department provide our customers with a single point of contact to access information across all areas of our operations and for each of our service offerings.



Linehaul Transportation



Linehaul dispatchers control the movement of freight between service centers through integrated freight movement systems. We also utilize load-planning software to optimize efficiencies in our linehaul operations. Our management team monitors freight movements, transit times, load factors and many other productivity measurements to help ensure that we maintain our high levels of service and efficiency.



We utilize scheduled routes, and additional linehaul dispatches as necessary, to meet our published transit times. In addition, we lower our cost structure by primarily using twin 28-foot trailers in our linehaul operations. The use of twin 28-foot trailers permits us to transport freight directly from its point of origin to destination with minimal unloading and reloading, which also reduces cargo loss and damage expenses. We utilize long-combination vehicles, such as triple 28-foot trailers and combinations of 48-foot and 28-foot trailers, in states where permitted. Twin trailers and long-combination vehicles permit more freight to be transported behind a tractor than could otherwise be transported by one trailer.



Tractors, Trailers and Maintenance



AtDecember 31, 2014, we owned6,907tractors. We generally use new tractors in linehaul operations for approximately three to five years and then transfer those tractors to P&D operations for the remainder of their useful lives. In many of our service centers, tractors perform P&D functions during the day and linehaul functions at night to maximize tractor utilization.



AtDecember 31, 2014, we owned27,259trailers. We primarily purchase new trailers for our operations; however, we occasionally purchase pre-owned equipment that meets our specifications. The purchase of pre-owned equipment can provide an excellent value but also can increase our fleet’s average age. The table below reflects, as ofDecember 31, 2014, the average age of our tractors and trailers:

Type of EquipmentNumber ofUnitsAverage Age(In years)Tractors6,9074.9Linehaul trailers19,5565.8P&D trailers7,70311.8



We develop certain specifications for tractors and trailers and then negotiate the production and purchase of this equipment with several manufacturers. These purchases are planned well in advance of anticipated delivery dates in order to accommodate manufacturers’ production schedules. We believe there is sufficient capacity among suppliers to ensure an uninterrupted supply of equipment to support our operations.



The table below sets forth our capital expenditures for tractors and trailers for the years endedDecember 31, 2014,2013and2012. For more information concerning our capital expenditures, see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations –Liquidity and Capital Resources” in this report.

Year Ended December 31,(In thousands)201420132012Tractors$91,750$59,317$113,257Trailers80,85370,04283,405Total$172,603$129,359$196,662












AtDecember 31, 2014, we operated 38 maintenance centers at certain service center locations throughout our network.  These maintenance centers are equipped to perform routine and preventive maintenance and repairs on our equipment.



We adhere to established maintenance policies and procedures to help ensure our fleet is properly maintained. Tractors are routed to appropriate maintenance facilities at designated mileage intervals or every 90 days, whichever occurs first. Trailers are scheduled for maintenance every 90 days.



Customers



Revenue is generated primarily from customers throughout the United States and North America. In2014, our largest customer accounted for approximately 2.6% of our revenue and our largest 5, 10 and 20 customers accounted for approximately 9.7%, 14.8% and 21.5% of our revenue, respectively. For each of the previous three years, more than 95% of our revenue was derived from transporting LTL shipments for our customers and less than 5% of our revenue was generated from international services. We believe the diversity of our customer base helps protect our business from adverse developments in a single geographic region and from the reduction or loss of business from a single customer.



We utilize an integrated freight-costing system to determine the price level at which a particular shipment of freight will be profitable. We can modify elements of this freight-costing model to simulate the actual conditions under which the freight will be moved. Many of our customers engage our services through the terms and provisions of our tariffs and through negotiated service contracts. We also compete for business by participating in bid solicitations. Customers generally solicit bids for relatively large numbers of shipments for a period of one to two years and typically choose to enter into contractual arrangements with a limited number of motor carriers based upon price and service.



Seasonality



Our operations are subject to seasonal trends common in the trucking industry. Our operating margins in the first quarter are normally lower due to reduced demand during the winter months. Harsh weather can also adversely affect our performance by reducing demand and reducing our ability to transport freight, which could result in decreased revenue and increased operating expenses.



Technology



We continually seek to upgrade and enhance our technological capabilities, and we provide access to our systems through multiple gateways that offer our customers and employees maximum flexibility and immediate access to information. We employ vehicle safety systems, on-board and hand-held computer systems, freight handling systems and logistics technology to reduce costs and transit times. Our data systems are integrated in every level within our organization, which we believe is critical to our success and performance. Our systems are protected through physical and software safeguards, as well as redundant systems, network security measures and backup systems considered appropriate by management. We continue to focus on the development and enhancement of the technology used in our operations in order to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of our services.



Insurance



We carry a significant amount of insurance with third-party insurance carriers, but we are exposed to the risk of loss on claims up to the limit for which we hold either a self-insured retention ("SIR") or deductible. AtDecember 31, 2014, the amounts of our SIR and/or deductibles were as follows: $2.75 million per occurrence for bodily injury and property damage (“BIPD”) claims, $100,000 per claim for cargo loss and damage, $1.0 million per occurrence for workers’ compensation claims and $400,000 per occurrence (with a $400,000 aggregate over our retention level) for group health claims.



We believe that our policy of maintaining an SIR or deductible for a portion of our risks, supported by our safety and loss prevention programs, is an effective means of managing insurance costs. We periodically review our risk exposure and insurance coverage applicable to those risks and we believe that we maintain sufficient insurance coverage.












Diesel Fuel Availability and Cost



We depend heavily upon the availability of diesel fuel to provide our transportation services. We maintain fuel storage and pumping facilities at certain service center locations as the primary source for fueling our fleet, and we utilize over-the-road fueling options at retail locations as necessary. We could be susceptible to regional and/or national fuel shortages, which could cause us to incur additional expense in order to obtain an adequate supply within our own fueling network or cause us to rely more heavily on higher-priced retail fuel.



We believe our operations and financial condition are susceptible to the same diesel fuel price increases or shortages as those of our competitors. We implemented a fuel surcharge program in August 1999, which has remained in effect since that time and is one of many components that we use to determine the overall price for our transportation services. Our fuel surcharges are generally indexed to fuel prices published by the U.S. Department of Energy (the “DOE”) that reset each week.



Employees



As ofDecember 31, 2014, we employed16,443individuals on a full-time basis, none of which were represented under a collective bargaining agreement. Our full-time employees work in the following roles:

Full-Time EmployeesNumber ofEmployeesDrivers8,733Platform2,859Fleet technicians510Sales, administrative and other4,341Total16,443



As ofDecember 31, 2014, we employed 4,484 linehaul drivers and 4,249 P&D drivers on a full-time basis. We select our drivers primarily based upon safe driving records and experience. Among other requirements, our drivers must pass a drug test, have a current U.S. Department of Transportation (“DOT”) physical and have a valid commercial driver’s license prior to employment. Once employed, drivers are required to obtain and maintain hazardous materials endorsements to their commercial driver’s licenses. Drivers, like all of our employees, are required to take pre-employment drug and alcohol tests and are randomly selected for periodic additional testing.



Since 1988, we have provided the opportunity for qualified employees to become drivers through the “Old Dominion Driver Training Program.”  There are currently 2,290 active drivers who have successfully completed this training, which was approximately 26% of our driver workforce as ofDecember 31, 2014. We believe our driver training and qualification programs have been important factors in improving our safety record and retaining qualified drivers. We reward our drivers who maintain safe driving records with bonuses of up to $3,000 per driver payable each year. Our driver safety bonuses totaled $3.1 million, $2.8 million and $2.6 million in2014,2013and2012, respectively. In addition, we have experienced an annual turnover rate for our driver graduates of approximately 5.8%, which is below our Company-wide turnover rate for all drivers of approximately 10.9%.



Governmental Regulation



We are subject to regulation by many federal governmental agencies, including the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (the “FMCSA”), the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration and the Surface Transportation Board, which are agencies within the DOT. We are also subject to rules and regulations of various state agencies. These regulatory authorities have broad powers, generally governing matters such as authority to engage in motor carrier operations, motor carrier registration, driver hours of service, safety and fitness of transportation equipment and drivers, certain mergers, consolidations and acquisitions and periodic financial reporting. In addition, we are subject to compliance with cargo-security and transportation regulations issued by the Transportation Security Administration ("TSA") within the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.



In October 2009, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit ordered the FMCSA to review and re-issue rules governing hours of service for commercial truck drivers by July 26, 2011. This deadline was extended and on December 22, 2011, the FMCSA issued its final rule, which mandated compliance by July 1, 2013. The 2011 rule reduced the maximum number of hours a truck driver could work each week to 70 hours from the former 82-hour limit. The 2011 rule maintained the maximum 11-hour daily driving limit, but required drivers to take a 30-minute break prior to working beyond










eight hours. The 2011 rule also modified the “34-hour restart” provision to include two periods of rest between 1 a.m. and 5 a.m., and limited a restart to once every 168 hours. On December 16, 2014, however, the 2015 Omnibus Appropriations Bill temporarily suspended enforcement of certain aspects of the restart provisions until September 30, 2015.  Specifically, the new law temporarily eliminated the requirements for two rest periods between 1 a.m. and 5 a.m. and the 168-hour minimum restart provision.  During this suspension period, the law directs the Secretary of the DOT to conduct a study of the operational, safety, health and fatigue aspects of the restart provisions in effect before and after July 1, 2013.



Implementation of the 2011 rule on July 1, 2013 required us to make certain changes in our operating procedures. These changes increased our operating costs by limiting the productivity of our drivers. While the suspension of certain aspects of the restart provisions should allow us to regain some of this lost productivity, the suspension is temporary and we do not plan to make significant changes to our operations.  As a result, we could continue to incur higher operating costs than we had before the 2011 rule went into effect.



We are subject to future rulemaking by the FMCSA and other regulatory agencies, which could be more stringent, require additional changes to our operations, increase our operating costs or otherwise adversely impact our results of operations.



The trucking industry is subject to regulatory and legislative changes from a variety of other governmental authorities, which address matters such as: (i) increasingly stringent environmental and occupational safety and health regulations; (ii) limits on vehicle weight and size; (iii) ergonomics; and (iv) port security. These changes may affect our business or the economics of our industry by requiring changes in operating practices, or by influencing the demand for and increasing the costs of providing our services.



Environmental Regulation



We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that focus on, among other things: the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the environment or their presence at our properties or in our vehicles; fuel storage tanks; transportation of certain materials; and the discharge or retention of storm water. Under specific environmental laws, we could also be held responsible for any costs relating to contamination at our past or present facilities and at third-party waste disposal sites, as well as costs associated with clean-up of accidents involving our vehicles. We do not believe that the cost of future compliance with current environmental laws or regulations will have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition, competitive position or capital expenditures for the remainder of2015or fiscal year 2016. However, future changes to laws or regulations may adversely affect our operations and could result in unforeseen costs to our business.



Available Information



Through our website, http://www.odfl.com, we make available, free of charge, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as soon as practicable after we electronically file the material with or furnish it to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). The public may read or copy any document we file with the SEC at the SEC’s website,http://www.sec.gov(File No. 0-19582), or at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549-2736. The SEC can be reached at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the operation of the Public Reference Room. Information contained on our website is neither part of nor incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K or any other report we file with or furnish to the SEC.





