ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Unless the context requires otherwise, references in this report to “Old Dominion,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” and “our” refer to Old Dominion Freight
Line, Inc.

Overview

Old Dominion is a leading, less-than-truckload (“LTL”), non-union motor carrier providing regional, inter-regional and national LTL service and value-added logistics services. We are the seventh
largest LTL motor carrier in the United States, as measured by 2009 revenue, according toTransport Topics. In addition to our core LTL services, we offer our customers a broad range of logistics services including ground and air expedited
transportation, supply chain consulting, transportation management, truckload brokerage, container delivery and warehousing services. Through marketing and carrier relationships, we also offer door-to-door international freight services to and from
all of North America, Central America, South America and the Far East. Our services are complemented by our technological capabilities, which we believe provide the tools to improve the efficiency of our operations while empowering our customers to
manage their shipping needs.

We have grown our revenue and customer base through both organic growth and strategic
acquisitions and now provide our domestic LTL services throughout the entire continental United States. Our infrastructure allows us to provide next-day and second-day service within each of our six regions, as well as inter-regional and national
service between these regions. To support our ongoing expansion, we have added 59 new service centers in the past five years for a total of 213 at December 31, 2010.

We believe our growth can be attributed to our focus on meeting our customers’ complete supply chain needs from a single point of contact with a high level of customer service supported by ongoing
investment in our employees, service center network and technology. Our integrated structure allows us to offer our customers consistent service from origin to destination. We believe our operating structure and proprietary information systems
enable us to provide higher customer service levels and better manage our operating costs.

We were organized in 1934 and
incorporated in Virginia in 1950. Our principal executive offices are located at 500 Old Dominion Way, Thomasville, North Carolina 27360. Please refer to the Balance Sheets and Statements of Operations included in Item 8, “Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data” of this report for information regarding our total assets, revenue from operations and net income.







Our Industry

Trucking companies provide transportation services to virtually every industry operating in the United States and generally offer higher levels of reliability and faster transit times than other surface
transportation options. The trucking industry is comprised principally of two types of motor carriers: LTL and truckload. LTL carriers typically pick up multiple shipments from multiple customers on a single truck and then route that freight for
delivery through service centers where the freight may be transferred to other trucks with similar destinations. In contrast, truckload carriers generally dedicate an entire trailer to one customer from origin to destination.

According to the American Trucking Associations, total domestic freight revenue in 2009 was $664.7 billion, of which the trucking
industry accounted for 81.9%. The LTL sector had revenue in 2009 of $38.6 billion, which represented 5.8% of total domestic freight revenue. In contrast to truckload carriers, LTL motor carriers require expansive networks of local pickup and
delivery (“P&D”) service centers, as well as larger breakbulk, or hub, facilities. Significant capital is required of LTL motor carriers to create and maintain a network of service centers and a fleet of tractors and trailers. The high
fixed costs and capital spending requirements for LTL motor carriers makes it difficult for new start-up or small operators to effectively compete with established companies. In addition, successful LTL motor carriers generally employ, and
continuously update, a high level of technology to provide information to customers and to reduce operating costs.

The LTL
industry is highly competitive on the basis of service and price and has consolidated significantly since the industry was deregulated in 1980. Based on 2009 revenue, the top 25 LTL motor carriers accounted for approximately 65% of the total LTL
market. Consolidation has accelerated in recent years due to an increase in customer demand for single transportation providers offering both national and regional LTL service and complex supply chain services. Smaller regional carriers with lesser
financial resources are generally unable to meet this demand. We believe consolidation will continue, particularly due to the negative impact on industry fundamentals from the recent recessionary economic environment, which appears to have
substantially weakened the financial condition of many of our competitors.

Competition

We compete with regional, inter-regional and national LTL carriers and, to a lesser extent, with truckload carriers, small package
carriers, airfreight carriers and railroads. Competition is based primarily on service, price and business relationships. We believe that we are able to compete effectively in our markets by providing high-quality and timely service at competitive
prices.

At all levels of our organization, we seek to continuously improve customer service by maximizing on-time performance
while reducing transit times and minimizing cargo claims. We believe our transit times are generally faster than those of our principal national competitors, in part because of our more efficient service center network, use of team drivers and
proprietary technology. In addition, we provide greater geographic coverage than most of our regional competitors. Our diversified mix and scope of regional, inter-regional and national service enables us to provide our customers with a single
source to meet their LTL shipping needs, and we believe this provides us with a distinct advantage over our regional, multi-regional and national competition.

We also believe our non-union workforce gives us a significant advantage over our unionized LTL competitors. By utilizing flexible scheduling and training our employees to perform multiple tasks, we
believe we achieve greater productivity and higher levels of customer service. We believe our focus on employee communication, continued education, development and motivation strengthens the relationships among our employees.

We compete with several larger transportation service providers, each of which may have more equipment, a broader coverage network and a
wider range of services than we have. Our larger competitors may also have greater financial resources and, in general, the ability to reduce prices to gain business, especially during times of reduced growth rates in the economy.







Service Center Operations

At December 31, 2010, we conducted operations through 213 service center locations, of which we owned 132 and leased 81. We operate ten major breakbulk facilities in Rialto, California; Atlanta,
Georgia; Chicago, Illinois; Indianapolis, Indiana; Greensboro, North Carolina; Harrisburg, Pennsylvania; Memphis and Morristown, Tennessee; Dallas, Texas; and Salt Lake City, Utah, while using other service centers for limited breakbulk activity in
order to serve our next-day markets. Our service centers are strategically located in six regions of the country to provide the highest quality service and minimize freight rehandling costs.

Each of our service centers is responsible for the pickup and delivery of freight within its service area. Each service center loads
outbound freight by destination the day it is picked up. All inbound freight received by the service center in the evening or during the night is scheduled for local delivery the next business day, unless a customer requests a different delivery
schedule. Our management reviews the productivity and service performance of each service center on a daily basis to ensure quality service and efficient operations.

While we have established primary responsibility for customer service at the local service center level, our customers may access information and initiate transactions through our centralized customer
service department located at our corporate office or through several other gateways, such as our website, electronic data interchange (“EDI”), automated voice response systems and automated fax systems. Our systems offer direct access to
information such as freight tracking, shipping documents, rate quotes, rate databases and account activity. These centralized systems and our customer service department provide our customers with a single point of contact to access information
across all areas of our operations and for each of our service products.

Linehaul Transportation

Linehaul dispatchers are centralized at our corporate office and control the movement of freight among service centers through integrated
freight movement systems. We also utilize load-planning software to optimize efficiencies in our linehaul operations. Our senior management regularly monitors freight movements, transit times, load factors and other productivity measurements to
ensure that we maintain our highest levels of service and efficiency.

We utilize scheduled routes, and additional linehaul
dispatches as necessary, to meet our published service standards. In addition, we lower our cost structure by maintaining flexible workforce rules and by primarily using twin 28-foot trailers in our linehaul operations. The use of twin 28-foot
trailers permits us to transport freight directly from its point of origin to destination with minimal unloading and reloading, which also reduces cargo loss and damage expenses. We also utilize long-combination vehicles, such as triple 28-foot
trailers and combinations of 48-foot and 28-foot trailers, in states where permitted. Twin trailers and long-combination vehicles permit more freight to be hauled behind a tractor than could otherwise be hauled by one large trailer.

Tractors, Trailers and Maintenance

At December 31, 2010, we owned 5,718 tractors. We generally use new tractors in linehaul operations for approximately three to five years and then transfer those tractors to P&D operations for
the remainder of their useful lives. In many of our service centers, tractors perform P&D functions during the day and linehaul functions at night to maximize tractor utilization.

At December 31, 2010, we owned 20,986 trailers. We primarily purchase new trailers for our operations; however, we occasionally
purchase pre-owned equipment that meets our specifications.







At various times, we have also acquired tractors and trailers through our acquisition of
business assets from other carriers. The purchase of pre-owned equipment can provide an excellent value but also can increase our fleet’s average age. The table below reflects, as of December 31, 2010, the average age of our tractors,
trucks and trailers:



Type of equipment(categorized by primary use)Number ofunitsAverage age(in
years)Linehaul tractors3,4283.5P&D tractors2,2908.8P&D trucks1124.5Linehaul trailers15,1788.4P&D trailers5,80812.9

We develop certain
specifications for tractors and trailers and then negotiate the production and purchase of this equipment with several manufacturers. These purchases are planned well in advance of anticipated delivery dates in order to accommodate
manufacturers’ production schedules. We believe that there is sufficient capacity among suppliers to ensure an uninterrupted supply of equipment to support our operations.

The table below sets forth our capital expenditures for tractors and trailers for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008.
Our capital expenditures for tractors and trailers for the past three years were limited to replacing a portion of the equipment scheduled to be retired through the normal replacement cycle. We retained much of the equipment scheduled for
replacement, however, to provide sufficient capacity for us to take advantage of any increase in demand for our services caused by improvements in the economy and potential business failures or consolidation in the LTL industry. Due to our
anticipated growth and our planned efforts to reduce the average age of our fleet in 2011, our equipment purchases in 2011 are expected to be significantly higher than in recent years.



Year ended December 31,(In thousands)201020092008Tractors$35,777$33,072$27,516Trailers5,02032,63920,599Total$40,797$65,711$48,115

At December 31, 2010, we had major maintenance operations at our service centers in Rialto, California;
Denver, Colorado; Atlanta, Georgia; Indianapolis, Indiana; Kansas City and Parsons, Kansas; Greensboro, North Carolina; Columbus, Ohio; Harrisburg, Pennsylvania; Morristown and Memphis, Tennessee; Dallas, Texas; and Salt Lake City, Utah. In
addition, 19 other service center locations are equipped to perform routine and preventive maintenance and repairs on our equipment.

We adhere to established maintenance policies and procedures to help ensure our fleet is properly maintained. Linehaul tractors are routed to appropriate maintenance facilities at designated mileage or
time intervals, depending upon how the equipment has been utilized. P&D tractors and trailers are scheduled for maintenance every 90 days.

Marketing and Customers

At December 31, 2010, we had a sales staff of 487 employees. We compensate our sales force, in part, based upon on-time service
performance, revenue generated and Company and service center profitability, which we believe helps motivate our sales employees to achieve our service, growth and profitability objectives.

We utilize a computerized freight-costing model to determine the price level at which a particular shipment of freight will be
profitable. We can modify elements of this freight-costing model to simulate the actual conditions under which the freight will be moved. We also compete for business by participating in bid solicitations. Customers generally solicit bids for
relatively large numbers of shipments for a period of one to two years, and typically choose to enter into contractual arrangements with a limited number of motor carriers based upon price and service.







Revenue is generated by customers dispersed primarily throughout the United States and North
America. In 2010, our largest customer accounted for approximately 2.8% of our revenue and our largest 5, 10 and 20 customers accounted for approximately 9.1%, 13.9% and 20.8% of our revenue, respectively. For each of the previous three years, at
least 90% of our revenue was derived from transporting LTL shipments for our customers and less than 5% of our revenue was generated from international services. We believe the diversity of our customer base helps protect our business from adverse
developments in a single geographic region and the reduction or loss of business from a single customer.

Seasonality

Our operations are subject to seasonal trends common in the trucking industry. Our operating margins in the first quarter are normally
lower due to reduced demand during the winter months. Harsh weather can also adversely affect our performance by reducing demand and reducing our ability to transport freight, which could result in decreased revenue and increased operating expenses.

Technology

We continually upgrade our technological capabilities, and we provide access to our systems through multiple gateways that offer our
customers maximum flexibility and immediate access to information. We employ vehicle safety systems, freight handling systems and logistics technology to reduce costs and transit times. We continue to focus on the development and enhancement of the
technology used in our operations in order to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of our services.

Insurance

We carry a significant amount of insurance with third-party insurance carriers, but we are exposed to the risk of loss on claims up to the
limit for which we are self-insured. We are currently self-insured for bodily injury and property damage (“BIPD”) claims up to $2.75 million per occurrence. Cargo loss and damage claims are self-insured up to $100,000 per occurrence. We
are exposed to workers’ compensation claims up to $1.0 million per occurrence, through either self-insurance or insurance deductibles. We are self-insured for group health claims up to $375,000 per occurrence plus an aggregate $200,000 over
this retention level. Our long-term disability claims are self-insured to a maximum of $3,000 per month for each of our non-salaried employees. Effective April 2, 2010, salaried employees were offered an elective long-term disability plan and,
as a result, the Company has no liability for new claims occurring subsequent to this date for its salaried employees.

We
believe that our policy of self-insuring a portion of our risks, together with our safety and loss prevention programs, is an effective means of managing insurance costs. We also believe that our current insurance coverage is adequate to cover our
liability risks.

Diesel Fuel Availability and Cost

Our industry depends heavily upon the availability of diesel fuel. Although we maintained fuel storage and pumping facilities at 45, or 21%, of our service center locations at December 31, 2010, we
may experience shortages at certain locations and may be forced to incur additional expense to ensure adequate supply on a timely basis to prevent a disruption to our service schedules. We implemented a fuel surcharge program in August 1999. The
program has remained in effect since that time and is one of many components that we use to determine the overall price for our transportation services. Our fuel surcharges are generally indexed to fuel prices published by the U.S. Department of
Energy (the “DOE”) that reset each week. Our management believes that our operations and financial condition are susceptible to the same diesel fuel price increases or shortages as those of our competitors. Diesel fuel costs, including
fuel taxes, totaled 13.1% and 11.4% of revenue in 2010 and 2009, respectively.







Employees

As of December 31, 2010, we employed 11,179 individuals on a full-time basis, none of which were represented under a collective bargaining agreement. Our full-time employees work in the following
roles:



CategoryNumber ofemployeesDrivers5,930Platform1,701Fleet technicians375Sales487Salaried, clerical and other2,686

As of
December 31, 2010, we employed 3,002 linehaul drivers and 2,928 P&D drivers on a full-time basis. Each of our drivers is required to pass a drug test and have a current U.S. Department of Transportation (“DOT”) physical and a
valid commercial driver’s license prior to employment. Once employed, drivers are required to obtain and maintain hazardous materials endorsements to their commercial driver’s licenses. Drivers, as well as all employees, are required to
take pre-employment drug and alcohol tests and are randomly selected for periodic additional testing.

To help fulfill driver
needs, we offer qualified employees the opportunity to become drivers through the “Old Dominion Driver Training Program.” Since its inception in 1988, 2,738 individuals have graduated from this program. Of the program graduates, we have
experienced an annual turnover rate of approximately 7.4%, which is below our company-wide average turnover rate of approximately 12.3% for drivers. We believe our driver training and qualification programs have been important factors in improving
our safety record and retaining our qualified drivers. Drivers with safe driving records are rewarded with bonuses of up to $3,000 payable each year. Driver safety bonuses paid during 2010 and 2009 were $2.1 million and $2.0 million, respectively.

Governmental Regulation

We are subject to regulation by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (the “FMCSA”), the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Agency and the Surface Transportation Board, which are
agencies within the DOT, as well as the regulations of various state agencies. These regulatory authorities have broad powers, generally governing matters such as authority to engage in motor carrier operations, motor carrier registration, driver
hours of service, safety and fitness of transportation equipment and drivers, certain mergers, consolidations and acquisitions, and periodic financial reporting. In addition, we are subject to compliance with cargo-security and transportation
regulations issued by the Transportation Security Administration within the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.

The
trucking industry is subject to regulatory and legislative changes from a variety of other governmental authorities, which address matters such as: (i) increasingly stringent environmental and occupational safety and health regulations;
(ii) limits on vehicle weight and size; (iii) ergonomics; and (iv) hours of service. These changes may affect our business or the economics of our industry by requiring changes in operating practices, or by influencing the demand for
and increasing the costs of providing our services.

The cost of compliance with current applicable laws and regulations has
not materially impacted our results of operations or financial condition. However, future changes to laws or regulations, including proposed changes to hours of service, may adversely affect our operations and could result in unforeseen costs to our
business.

Environmental Regulation

We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that focus on, among other things: the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the environment or their
presence on or in our properties and vehicles; fuel storage tanks; transportation of certain materials; and the discharge or retention of storm water. Under specific environmental laws, we could also be held responsible for any costs relating to
contamination at our past or present facilities and at third-party waste







disposal sites, as well as costs associated with clean-up of accidents involving our vehicles. We do not believe that the cost of future compliance with current environmental laws or regulations
will have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition, competitive position or capital expenditures for the remainder of fiscal year 2011 or fiscal year 2012. However, future changes to laws or regulations may adversely affect
our operations and could result in unforeseen costs to our business.

Available Information

Through our website, http://www.odfl.com, we make available, free of charge, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form
10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Act of 1934, as soon as practicable after we electronically file the material with or furnish it to
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). The public may read or copy any document we file with the SEC at the SEC’s website,http://www.sec.gov(File No. 0-19582), or at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at
100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. The SEC can be reached at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the operation of the Public Reference Room. Information contained on our website is neither part of nor incorporated by reference into this
Form 10-K or any other report we file with or furnish to the SEC.



