ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Unless the context
requires otherwise, references in this report to “Old Dominion,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” and “our” refer to Old Dominion Freight Line, Inc.

Overview

Old Dominion is a leading, less-than-truckload (“LTL”),
union-free motor carrier providing regional, inter-regional and national LTL service and value-added logistics services from a single integrated organization. We are the seventh largest LTL motor carrier in the United States, as measured by 2010
revenue, according toTransport Topics. In addition to our core LTL services, we offer our customers a broad range of logistics services including ground and air expedited transportation, supply chain consulting, transportation management,
truckload brokerage, container delivery and warehousing services. Additionally in 2012, we expanded our logistics services to include consumer household moving services, which provide customers with a self-service moving option for their household
goods. Through marketing and carrier relationships, we also offer door-to-door international freight services to and from all of North America, Central America, South America and the Far East. Our services are complemented by our technological
capabilities, which we believe provide the tools to improve the efficiency of our operations while empowering our customers to manage their shipping needs.

We have grown our revenue and customer base through both organic growth and strategic acquisitions and provide our domestic LTL services throughout the entire continental United States. Our infrastructure
allows us to provide next-day and second-day service within each of our six regions, as well as inter-regional and national service between these regions. To support our ongoing expansion, we added 34 new service centers in the past five years for a
total of 216 at December 31, 2011.

We believe our growth can be attributed to our focus on meeting our customers’
complete supply chain needs from a single point of contact with a high level of customer service supported by ongoing investment in our employees, service center network and technology. Our integrated structure allows us to offer our customers
consistent high-quality service from origin to destination. We believe our operating structure and proprietary information systems also enable us to efficiently manage our operating costs, which allows us to provide this high-quality service at a
fair and equitable price.







We were organized in 1934 and incorporated in Virginia in 1950. Our principal executive
offices are located at 500 Old Dominion Way, Thomasville, North Carolina 27360. Please refer to the Balance Sheets and Statements of Operations included in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this report for
information regarding our total assets, revenue from operations and net income.

Our Industry

Trucking companies provide transportation services to virtually every industry operating in the United States and generally offer higher
levels of reliability and faster transit times than other surface transportation options. The trucking industry is comprised principally of two types of motor carriers: LTL and truckload. LTL carriers typically pick up multiple shipments from
multiple customers on a single truck and then route that freight for delivery through service centers where the freight may be transferred to other trucks with similar destinations. In contrast, truckload carriers generally dedicate an entire
trailer to one customer from origin to destination.

According to the American Trucking Associations, total U.S. freight
transportation revenue in 2010 was $694.2 billion, of which the trucking industry accounted for 81.2%. The LTL sector had revenue in 2010 of $40.4 billion, which represented 5.8% of total U.S. freight transportation revenue. In contrast to truckload
carriers, LTL motor carriers require expansive networks of local pickup and delivery (“P&D”) service centers, as well as larger breakbulk, or hub, facilities. Significant capital is required of LTL motor carriers to create and maintain
a network of service centers and a fleet of tractors and trailers. The high fixed costs and capital spending requirements for LTL motor carriers makes it difficult for new start-up or small operators to effectively compete with established
companies. In addition, successful LTL motor carriers generally employ, and continuously update, a high level of technology to provide information to customers and to reduce operating costs.

The LTL industry is highly competitive on the basis of service and price and has consolidated significantly since the industry was
deregulated in 1980. Based on 2010 revenue as reported inTransport Topics, the top 25 LTL motor carriers accounted for approximately 67% of the total LTL market. Consolidation has accelerated in recent years due to an increase in customer
demand for single transportation providers offering both national and regional LTL service and complex supply chain services. Smaller regional carriers with lesser financial resources are generally unable to meet this demand. As a result, we believe
consolidation in our industry will continue.

Competition

We compete with regional, inter-regional and national LTL carriers and, to a lesser extent, with truckload carriers, small package carriers, airfreight carriers and railroads. Competition is based
primarily on service, price and business relationships. We believe we are able to compete effectively in our markets by providing high-quality and timely service at competitive prices.

At all levels of our organization, we seek to continuously improve customer service by maximizing on-time performance while reducing
transit times and minimizing cargo claims. We believe our transit times are generally faster than those of our principal national competitors, in part because of our more efficient service center network, use of team drivers and proprietary
technology. In addition, we provide greater geographic coverage than most of our regional competitors. Our diversified mix and scope of regional, inter-regional and national service, combined with our value-added service offerings, enables us to
provide our customers with a single source to meet their shipping and logistics needs. We believe this provides us with a distinct advantage over our regional, multi-regional and national competition.

We utilize flexible scheduling and train our union-free employees to perform multiple tasks, which we believe allows us to achieve
greater productivity and higher levels of customer service than our competitors. We believe our focus on employee communication, continued education, development and motivation strengthens the relationships and trust among our employees.

We compete with several larger transportation service providers, each of which may have more equipment, a broader global network and a
wider range of services than we have. Our larger competitors may also have greater financial resources and, in general, the ability to reduce prices to gain business, especially during times of reduced growth rates in the economy.







Service Center Operations

At December 31, 2011, we conducted operations through 216 service center locations, of which we owned 139 and leased 77. We operate ten major breakbulk facilities in Rialto, California; Atlanta,
Georgia; Chicago, Illinois; Indianapolis, Indiana; Greensboro, North Carolina; Harrisburg, Pennsylvania; Memphis and Morristown, Tennessee; Dallas, Texas; and Salt Lake City, Utah, while using other service centers for limited breakbulk activity in
order to serve our next-day markets. Our service centers are strategically located in six regions of the country to provide the highest quality service and minimize freight rehandling costs.

Each of our service centers is responsible for the pickup and delivery of freight within its service area. Each service center loads
outbound freight by destination the day it is picked up. All inbound freight received by the service center in the evening or during the night is scheduled for local delivery the next business day, unless a customer requests a different delivery
schedule. Our management reviews the productivity and service performance of each service center on a daily basis to help ensure quality service and efficient operations.

While we have established primary responsibility for customer service at the local service center level, our customers may access information and initiate transactions through our centralized customer
service department located at our corporate office or through several other gateways, such as our website, electronic data interchange (“EDI”), email and fax notification systems and automated voice response systems. Our systems offer
direct access to information such as freight tracking, shipping documents, rate quotes, rate databases and account activity. These centralized systems and our customer service department provide our customers with a single point of contact to access
information across all areas of our operations and for each of our service products.

Linehaul Transportation

Linehaul dispatchers control the movement of freight among service centers through integrated freight movement systems. We also utilize
load-planning software to optimize efficiencies in our linehaul operations. Our senior management monitors freight movements, transit times, load factors and other productivity measurements to ensure that we maintain our highest levels of service
and efficiency.

We utilize scheduled routes, and additional linehaul dispatches as necessary, to meet our published service
standards. In addition, we lower our cost structure by maintaining flexible workforce rules and by primarily using twin 28-foot trailers in our linehaul operations. The use of twin 28-foot trailers permits us to transport freight directly from its
point of origin to destination with minimal unloading and reloading, which also reduces cargo loss and damage expenses. We utilize long-combination vehicles, such as triple 28-foot trailers and combinations of 48-foot and 28-foot trailers, in states
where permitted. Twin trailers and long-combination vehicles permit more freight to be hauled behind a tractor than could otherwise be hauled by one large trailer.

Tractors, Trailers and Maintenance

At December 31, 2011, we owned
5,830 tractors. We generally use new tractors in linehaul operations for approximately three to five years and then transfer those tractors to P&D operations for the remainder of their useful lives. In many of our service centers, tractors
perform P&D functions during the day and linehaul functions at night to maximize tractor utilization.







At December 31, 2011, we owned 22,685 trailers. We primarily purchase new trailers for
our operations; however, we occasionally purchase pre-owned equipment that meets our specifications. The purchase of pre-owned equipment can provide an excellent value but also can increase our fleet’s average age. The table below reflects, as
of December 31, 2011, the average age of our tractors, trucks and trailers:



Type of Equipment(Categorized by primary use)Number ofUnitsAverage Age(in
years)Linehaul tractors3,6683.4P&D tractors2,1628.7P&D trucks1095.4Linehaul trailers16,3027.6P&D trailers6,38313.0

We develop certain specifications for tractors and trailers and then negotiate the production and
purchase of this equipment with several manufacturers. These purchases are planned well in advance of anticipated delivery dates in order to accommodate manufacturers’ production schedules. We believe there is sufficient capacity among
suppliers to ensure an uninterrupted supply of equipment to support our operations.

The table below sets forth our capital
expenditures for tractors and trailers for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. For more information concerning our capital expenditures, see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations –Liquidity and Capital Resources” of this report.



Year Ended December 31,(In thousands)201120102009Tractors$69,837$35,777$33,072Trailers62,3265,02032,639Total$132,163$40,797$65,711

At December 31, 2011, we had major maintenance operations at our service centers in Rialto,
California; Denver, Colorado; Atlanta, Georgia; Indianapolis, Indiana; Kansas City and Parsons, Kansas; Greensboro, North Carolina; Columbus, Ohio; Harrisburg, Pennsylvania; Morristown and Memphis, Tennessee; Dallas, Texas; and Salt Lake City, Utah.
In addition, 19 other service center locations are equipped to perform routine and preventive maintenance and repairs on our equipment.

We adhere to established maintenance policies and procedures to help ensure our fleet is properly maintained. Linehaul tractors are routed to appropriate maintenance facilities at designated intervals,
depending upon how the equipment has been utilized. P&D tractors and trailers are scheduled for maintenance every 90 days.

Marketing
and Customers

At December 31, 2011, we had a sales staff of 496 employees. We compensate our sales force, in part,
based upon certain operating metrics to help motivate our sales employees to achieve our service, growth and profitability objectives.

We utilize an integrated freight-costing system to determine the price level at which a particular shipment of freight will be profitable. We can modify elements of this freight-costing model to simulate
the actual conditions under which the freight will be moved. We also compete for business by participating in bid solicitations. Customers generally solicit bids for relatively large numbers of shipments for a period of one to two years, and
typically choose to enter into contractual arrangements with a limited number of motor carriers based upon price and service.

Revenue is generated by customers dispersed primarily throughout the United States and North America. In 2011, our largest customer
accounted for approximately 2.6% of our revenue and our largest 5, 10 and 20 customers accounted for approximately 9.1%, 14.3% and 21.4% of our revenue, respectively. For each of the previous three years, approximately 90% of our revenue was derived
from transporting LTL shipments for our customers and less than 5% of our revenue was generated from international services. We believe the diversity of our customer base helps protect our business from adverse developments in a single geographic
region and the reduction or loss of business from a single customer.







Seasonality

Our operations are subject to seasonal trends common in the trucking industry. Our operating margins in the first quarter are normally lower due to reduced demand during the winter months. Harsh weather
can also adversely affect our performance by reducing demand and reducing our ability to transport freight, which could result in decreased revenue and increased operating expenses.

Technology

We continually upgrade our technological capabilities, and we
provide access to our systems through multiple gateways that offer our customers maximum flexibility and immediate access to information. We employ vehicle safety systems, on-board and hand-held computer systems, freight handling systems and
logistics technology to reduce costs and transit times. We continue to focus on the development and enhancement of the technology used in our operations in order to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of our services.

Insurance

We carry a
significant amount of insurance with third-party insurance carriers, but we are exposed to the risk of loss on claims up to the limit for which we are self-insured. We are currently self-insured for bodily injury and property damage
(“BIPD”) claims up to $2.75 million per occurrence. Cargo loss and damage claims are self-insured up to $100,000 per occurrence. We are exposed to workers’ compensation claims up to $1.0 million per occurrence, through either
self-insurance or insurance deductibles. Effective January 1, 2012, our group health claims are self-insured up to $400,000 per occurrence, an increase from $375,000 in 2011, plus an aggregate $200,000 over our retention level.

We believe that our policy of self-insuring a portion of our risks, supported by our safety and loss prevention programs, is an effective
means of managing insurance costs. We also believe that our current insurance coverage is adequate to cover our liability risks.

Diesel
Fuel Availability and Cost

Our industry depends heavily upon the availability of diesel fuel. Although we maintained fuel
storage and pumping facilities at 47, or 22%, of our service center locations at December 31, 2011, we may experience shortages at certain locations and may be forced to incur additional expense to help ensure adequate supply on a timely basis
to prevent a disruption to our service schedules. We implemented a fuel surcharge program in August 1999, which has remained in effect since that time and is one of many components that we use to determine the overall price for our transportation
services. Our fuel surcharges are generally indexed to fuel prices published by the U.S. Department of Energy (the “DOE”) that reset each week. Our management believes that our operations and financial condition are susceptible to the same
diesel fuel price increases or shortages as those of our competitors. Diesel fuel costs, including fuel taxes, totaled 15.0%, 13.1% and 11.4% of revenue in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

Employees

As of December 31, 2011, we employed 12,022 individuals on
a full-time basis, none of which were represented under a collective bargaining agreement. Our full-time employees work in the following roles:



CategoryNumber ofEmployeesDrivers6,361Platform1,856Fleet technicians411Sales496Salaried, clerical and other2,898Total12,022







As of December 31, 2011, we employed 3,150 linehaul drivers and 3,211 P&D drivers
on a full-time basis. We select our drivers primarily based upon safe driving records and experience. Each of our drivers is required to pass a drug test, have a current U.S. Department of Transportation (“DOT”) physical and have a valid
commercial driver’s license prior to employment. Once employed, drivers are required to obtain and maintain hazardous materials endorsements to their commercial driver’s licenses. Drivers, as well as all employees, are required to take
pre-employment drug and alcohol tests and are randomly selected for periodic additional testing.

To help fulfill driver
needs, we offer qualified employees the opportunity to become drivers through the “Old Dominion Driver Training Program.” Since its inception in 1988, 2,994 individuals have graduated from this program. Of the program graduates, we have
experienced an annual turnover rate of approximately 7.1%, which is below our Company-wide average turnover rate of approximately 12.5% for drivers. We believe our driver training and qualification programs have been important factors in improving
our safety record and retaining our qualified drivers. Drivers with safe driving records are rewarded with bonuses of up to $3,000 payable each year. Driver safety bonuses paid during 2011 and 2010 were $2.3 million and $2.1 million, respectively.

Governmental Regulation

We are subject to regulation by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (the “FMCSA”), the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Agency and the Surface Transportation Board, which are
agencies within the DOT, as well as the regulations of various state agencies. These regulatory authorities have broad powers, generally governing matters such as authority to engage in motor carrier operations, motor carrier registration, driver
hours of service, safety and fitness of transportation equipment and drivers, certain mergers, consolidations and acquisitions, and periodic financial reporting. In addition, we are subject to compliance with cargo-security and transportation
regulations issued by the Transportation Security Administration within the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.

In October
2009, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit ordered the FMCSA to review and re-issue rules governing hours of service for commercial truck drivers by July 26, 2011. This deadline was extended and on December 22,
2011, the FMCSA issued its final rule, which requires compliance by July 1, 2013. The final rule reduces the maximum number of hours a truck driver can work each week to 70 hours from the current 82-hour limit. The rule maintains the current
maximum 11-hour daily driving limit, but requires drivers to take a 30-minute break prior to driving beyond eight hours. The rule also includes a “34-hour restart” provision that allows drivers to restart the clock on their work week by
taking at least 34 consecutive hours off-duty, provided these 34 off-duty hours includes two periods between 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. and occurs only once during a seven-day period. We do not believe this new rule, when implemented, will have a
significant impact on our operating procedures and will not significantly impact our costs. We are, however, subject to future rulemaking by the FMCSA, which could be more stringent, require changes to our operations, increase our operating costs
and otherwise adversely impact our results of operations.

The trucking industry is subject to regulatory and legislative
changes from a variety of other governmental authorities, which address matters such as: (i) increasingly stringent environmental and occupational safety and health regulations; (ii) limits on vehicle weight and size;
(iii) ergonomics; (iv) port security; and (v) hours of service. These changes may affect our business or the economics of our industry by requiring changes in operating practices, or by influencing the demand for and increasing the
costs of providing our services.

Environmental Regulation

We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that focus on, among other things: the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the environment or their
presence on or in our properties and vehicles; fuel storage tanks; transportation of certain materials; and the discharge or retention of storm water. Under specific environmental laws, we could also be held responsible for any costs relating to
contamination at our past or present facilities and at third-party waste disposal sites, as well as costs associated with clean-up of accidents involving our vehicles. We do not believe that the cost of future compliance with current environmental
laws or regulations will have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition, competitive position or capital expenditures for the remainder of fiscal year 2012 or fiscal year 2013. However, future changes to laws or regulations
may adversely affect our operations and could result in unforeseen costs to our business.







Available Information

Through our website, http://www.odfl.com, we make available, free of charge, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports
filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as soon as practicable after we electronically file the material with or furnish it to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the
“SEC”). The public may read or copy any document we file with the SEC at the SEC’s website,http://www.sec.gov(File No. 0-19582), or at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. The SEC
can be reached at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the operation of the Public Reference Room. Information contained on our website is neither part of nor incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K or any other report we file with or
furnish to the SEC.

