ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Unless the context requires otherwise, references in this report to “Old Dominion,” the “Company,” “we,”
“us” and “our” refer to Old Dominion Freight Line, Inc.

Overview

Old Dominion is a leading, less-than-truckload (“LTL”), non-union motor carrier providing regional, inter-regional and national LTL
service and value-added logistics services from a single integrated organization. We operate as one business segment and offer our products and services through our four branded product groups: OD-Domestic, OD-Expedited, OD-Global and OD-Technology.
We have grown to be the sixth largest LTL motor carrier in the United States, as measured by 2008 revenue, according toTransport Topics. In addition to our LTL services, we offer our customers a broad range of logistics services including
ground and air expedited transportation, supply chain consulting, transportation management, truckload brokerage, container delivery and warehousing services. Through marketing and carrier relationships, we also offer door-to-door international
freight services to and from all of North America, Central America, South America and the Far East. Our services are complemented by our technological capabilities, which provide the tools to improve the efficiency of our operations while empowering
our customers to manage their shipping needs.

We have grown our revenue and customer base through both organic growth and
strategic acquisitions. Prior to 1995, we provided regional service within the Southeastern region of the United States as well as inter-regional service connecting the Southeast to select major metropolitan areas. We have since expanded our
infrastructure to provide next-day and second-day service within each of our six regions that now cover the entire continental United States, as well as expanded our inter-regional and national service between these regions. To support this
geographic expansion, we increased our number of service centers from 53 at December 31, 1995 to 210 at December 31, 2009, including 72 new service centers in the past five years.

We attribute our growth to our focus on meeting our customers’ complete supply chain needs from a single point of contact with a high
level of customer service supported by continual investment in our employees,







service center network and technology. Our integrated structure allows us to offer our customers consistent and continuous service from origin to destination. We believe our operating structure
and proprietary information systems enable us to provide higher customer service levels and better manage our operating costs.

We were organized in 1934 and incorporated in Virginia in 1950. Our principal executive offices are located at 500 Old Dominion Way, Thomasville, North Carolina, 27360. Please refer to the Balance Sheets and Statements of Operations
included in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this report for information regarding our total assets, revenue from operations and net income.

Our Industry

Trucking companies provide transportation services to
virtually every industry operating in the United States and generally offer higher levels of reliability and faster transit times than other surface transportation options. The trucking industry is comprised principally of two types of motor
carriers: LTL and truckload. LTL carriers pick up multiple shipments from multiple customers on a single truck and then route that freight for delivery through service centers where the freight may be transferred to other trucks with similar
destinations. In contrast, truckload carriers generally dedicate an entire trailer to one customer from origin to destination.

According to the American Trucking Associations, the trucking industry accounted for 83.1% of total domestic freight revenue in 2008, or $660.3 billion, of which the LTL sector accounted for 7.8%, or $51.8 billion. In contrast to truckload
carriers, LTL motor carriers require expansive networks of local pickup and delivery (“P&D”) service centers, as well as larger breakbulk, or hub, facilities. Significant capital is required of LTL motor carriers to create and maintain
a network of service centers and a fleet of tractors and trailers. The high fixed costs and capital spending requirements for LTL motor carriers makes it difficult for new start-up or small operators to effectively compete with established
companies. In addition, successful LTL motor carriers generally employ, and continuously update, a high level of technology to provide information to customers and to reduce operating costs.

The LTL industry is highly competitive on the basis of service and price and has consolidated significantly since the industry was
deregulated in 1980. Based on 2008 revenue, the top 25 LTL motor carriers accounted for approximately 60% of the total LTL market. Consolidation has accelerated in recent years due to an increase in customer demand for single transportation
providers offering both national and regional LTL service and complex supply chain services, which smaller regional carriers with lesser financial resources are generally unable to provide. We believe consolidation will continue, particularly in the
current economic environment, which appears to have substantially weakened the financial condition of many of our competitors.

Competition

We compete with regional, inter-regional and national LTL carriers and, to a lesser extent, with truckload carriers, small
package carriers, airfreight carriers and railroads. Competition is based primarily on service, price and business relationships. We believe that we are able to compete effectively in our markets by providing high-quality and timely service at
competitive prices.

At all levels of our organization, we seek to continuously improve customer service by maximizing on-time
performance while reducing transit times and minimizing cargo claims. We believe our transit times are generally faster than those of our principal national competitors, in part because of our more efficient service center network, use of team
drivers and proprietary technology. In addition, we provide greater geographic coverage than most of our regional competitors. Our diversified mix and scope of regional, inter-regional and national service enables us to provide our customers with a
single source to meet their LTL shipping needs, and we believe this provides us with a distinct advantage over our regional, multi-regional and national competition.







We also believe our non-union workforce gives us a significant advantage over our unionized
LTL competitors. By utilizing flexible scheduling and training our employees to perform multiple tasks, we believe we achieve greater productivity and higher levels of customer service. We believe our focus on communication, continued education,
development and motivation strengthens the relationships among our employees.

We compete with several larger transportation
service providers, each of which may have more equipment, a broader coverage network and a wider range of services than we have. Our larger competitors may also have greater financial resources and, in general, the ability to reduce prices to gain
business, especially during times of reduced growth rates in the economy.

Service Center Operations

At December 31, 2009, we conducted operations through 210 service center locations, of which we own 125 and lease 85. We operate nine
major breakbulk facilities in Atlanta, Georgia; Rialto, California; Indianapolis, Indiana; Greensboro, North Carolina; Harrisburg, Pennsylvania; Memphis and Morristown, Tennessee; Dallas, Texas; and Salt Lake City, Utah, while using some smaller
service centers for limited breakbulk activity in order to serve our next-day markets. Our service centers are strategically located in six regions of the country to provide the highest quality service and minimize freight rehandling costs.

Each of our service centers is responsible for the pickup and delivery of freight within its service area. Each service
center loads outbound freight by destination the day it is picked up. All inbound freight received by the service center in the evening or during the night is scheduled for local delivery the next business day, unless a customer requests a different
delivery schedule. Our management reviews the productivity and service performance of each service center on a daily basis to ensure quality service and efficient operations.

While we have established primary responsibility for customer service at the local service center level, our customers may access
information and initiate transactions through our centralized customer service department located at our corporate office or several other gateways, such as our website, electronic data interchange (“EDI”), automated voice response systems
and automated fax systems. Our systems offer direct access to information such as freight tracking, shipping documents, rate quotes, rate databases and account activity. These centralized systems and our customer service department provide our
customers with a single point of contact to access information across all areas of our operations and for each of our service products.

Linehaul Transportation

Linehaul dispatchers are centralized at our corporate office and control the movement
of freight among service centers through integrated freight movement systems. We also utilize load-planning software to optimize efficiencies in our linehaul operations. Our senior management continuously monitors freight movements, transit times,
load factors and other productivity measurements to ensure that we maintain our highest levels of service and efficiency.

We
utilize scheduled routes, and additional linehaul dispatches as necessary, to meet our published service standards. In addition, we lower our cost structure by maintaining flexible workforce rules and by primarily using twin 28-foot trailers in our
linehaul operations. The use of twin 28-foot trailers permits us to transport freight directly from its point of origin to destination with minimal unloading and reloading, which also reduces cargo loss and damage expenses. We also utilize
long-combination vehicles, such as triple 28-foot trailers and combinations of 48-foot and 28-foot trailers, in states where permitted. Twin trailers and long-combination vehicles permit more freight to be hauled behind a tractor than could
otherwise be hauled by one large trailer.







Tractors, Trailers and Maintenance

At December 31, 2009, we owned 5,390 tractors. We generally use new tractors in linehaul operations for approximately three to five
years and then transfer those tractors to P&D operations for the remainder of their useful lives. In many of our service centers, tractors perform P&D functions during the day and linehaul functions at night to maximize tractor utilization.

At December 31, 2009, we operated a fleet of 21,185 trailers. We primarily purchase new trailers for our operations;
however, we occasionally purchase pre-owned equipment that meets our specifications.

At various times, we have also acquired
tractors and trailers through our acquisition of business assets from other carriers. The purchase of pre-owned equipment can provide an excellent value, but can increase our fleet’s average age. The table below reflects, as of
December 31, 2009, the average age of our tractors, trucks and trailers:



Type of equipment (categorized by primary use)Numberof unitsAverageage(in years)Linehaul tractors2,9232.9P&D tractors2,4677.7P&D trucks1143.6Linehaul trailers15,5387.6P&D trailers5,64712.4

We develop certain
specifications for tractors and trailers and then negotiate the production and purchase of this equipment with several manufacturers. These purchases are planned well in advance of anticipated delivery dates in order to accommodate
manufacturers’ production schedules. We believe that there is sufficient capacity among suppliers to ensure an uninterrupted supply of equipment to support our operations.

The table below sets forth our capital expenditures for tractors and trailers for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. Our
capital expenditures for tractors and trailers in 2009 were limited to replacing a portion of the equipment scheduled to be retired through the normal replacement cycle. We retained this equipment scheduled for replacement, however, to provide
sufficient capacity for us to take advantage of any increase in demand for our services caused by improvements in the economy, potential business failures or consolidation in the LTL industry. As a result of our current capacity, our equipment
purchases in 2010 should be significantly reduced.



Year ended December 31,(In thousands)200920082007Tractors$33,072$27,516$52,807Trailers32,63920,59943,793Total$65,711$48,115$96,600

At December 31, 2009, we had major maintenance
operations at our service centers in Rialto, California; Denver, Colorado; Atlanta, Georgia; Indianapolis, Indiana; Kansas City and Parsons, Kansas; Greensboro, North Carolina; Columbus, Ohio; Harrisburg, Pennsylvania; Morristown and Memphis,
Tennessee; Dallas, Texas; and Salt Lake City, Utah. In addition, eighteen other service center locations are equipped to perform routine and preventive maintenance and repairs on our equipment.

We adhere to established maintenance policies and procedures to ensure our fleet is properly maintained. Linehaul tractors are routed to
appropriate maintenance facilities at designated mileage or time intervals, depending upon how the equipment was utilized. P&D tractors and trailers are scheduled for maintenance every 90 days.







Marketing and Customers

At December 31, 2009, we had a sales staff of 453 employees. We compensate our sales force, in part, based upon on-time service performance, revenue generated and Company and service center
profitability, which we believe helps motivate our sales employees to achieve our service, growth and profitability objectives.

We utilize a computerized freight-costing model to determine the price level at which a particular shipment of freight will be profitable. We can modify elements of this freight-costing model to simulate the actual conditions under which
the freight will be moved. We also compete for business by participating in bid solicitations. Customers generally solicit bids for relatively large numbers of shipments for a period of one to two years, and typically choose to enter into
contractual arrangements with a limited number of motor carriers based upon price and service.

Revenue is generated by
customers dispersed primarily throughout the United States and North America. In 2009, our largest customer accounted for approximately 2.9% of our revenue and our largest 5, 10 and 20 customers accounted for approximately 8.9%, 14.0% and 21.0% of
our revenue, respectively. For each of the previous three years, at least 90% of our revenue was derived from transporting LTL shipments for our customers and less than 5% of our revenue was generated from international services. We believe the
diversity of our customer base helps protect our business from adverse developments in a single geographic region and the reduction or loss of business from a single customer.

Seasonality

Our tonnage levels and revenue mix are subject to seasonal
trends common in the motor carrier industry, although other factors, such as the economy, could cause variation in these trends. Operating margins in the first quarter are normally lower due to reduced shipments during the winter months. Harsh
winter weather can also adversely impact our performance by reducing demand and increasing operating expenses. Freight volumes typically build to a peak in the third quarter or early fourth quarter, which generally results in improved operating
margins for those periods.

In 2009, we experienced harsh winter weather during the first quarter that, as expected,
negatively impacted our operating margins. These negative impacts included increased operating costs resulting from inefficiencies in our service center network due to harsh winter weather, as well as a reduction in demand primarily attributable to
the ongoing effects of the recessionary economy. Subsequent to the first quarter of 2009, we experienced a seasonal build in freight that was consistent with our normal seasonal trends, though the seasonal build was not as measurable as in prior
years. We believe seasonal trends will continue to impact our business; however, we anticipate that our tonnage trends may continue to be inconsistent with historical trends until there is a general improvement in the domestic economy.

Technology

We
continually upgrade our technological capabilities, and we provide access to our systems through multiple gateways that offer our customers maximum flexibility and immediate access to information. We employ vehicle safety systems, freight handling
systems and logistics technology to reduce costs and transit times. We continue to focus on the development and enhancement of the technology used in our operations in order to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of our services.

Insurance

We carry a
significant amount of insurance with third-party insurance carriers and we self-insure a portion of this risk. We are currently self-insured for bodily injury and property damage (“BIPD”) claims up to $2.75 million per occurrence. Cargo
loss and damage claims are self-insured up to $100,000 per occurrence. We are







exposed to workers’ compensation claims up to $1.0 million per occurrence, through either self-insurance or insurance deductibles. We are insured for group health claims under a graduated
aggregating policy, where we are exposed to claims up to $350,000 per occurrence, plus an additional $235,000 for claims exceeding $650,000. Our long-term disability claims are self-insured to a maximum per individual of $3,000 per month.

We believe that our policy of self-insuring a portion of our risk, together with our safety and loss prevention programs, is
an effective means of managing insurance costs. We also believe that our current insurance coverage is adequate to cover our liability risks.

Diesel Fuel Availability and Cost

Our industry depends heavily upon the availability of diesel fuel. Although
we maintained fuel storage and pumping facilities at 41, or 20%, of our service center locations at December 31, 2009, we may experience shortages at certain locations and may be forced to incur additional expense to ensure adequate supply on a
timely basis to prevent a disruption to our service schedules. As a result of higher diesel fuel costs, we implemented a fuel surcharge program in August 1999 that has remained in effect since that time and has become one of many components in the
overall price for our transportation services. Our fuel surcharges are generally indexed to the U.S. Department of Energy’s (the “DOE”) published fuel prices that reset each week. Our management believes that our operations and
financial condition are susceptible to the same diesel fuel price increases or shortages as those of our competitors. Diesel fuel costs, including fuel taxes, totaled 11.4% and 16.8% of revenue in 2009 and 2008, respectively.

Employees

As of
December 31, 2009, we employed 9,608 individuals on a full-time basis, of which none were represented under a collective bargaining agreement. Our full-time employees work in the following roles:



CategoryNumber ofemployeesDrivers5,041Platform1,405Fleet technicians350Sales453Salaried, clerical and other2,359

As of
December 31, 2009, we employed 2,477 linehaul drivers and 2,564 P&D drivers on a full-time basis. All of our drivers are selected based upon safe driving records and experience. Each of our drivers is required to pass a drug test and have a
current U.S. Department of Transportation (“DOT”) physical and a valid commercial driver’s license prior to employment. Once employed, drivers are required to obtain and maintain hazardous materials endorsements to their commercial
driver’s licenses. Drivers, as well as all employees, are required to take pre-employment drug and alcohol tests and are randomly selected for periodic additional testing.

To help fulfill driver needs, we offer qualified employees the opportunity to become drivers through the “Old Dominion Driver Training
Program.” Since its inception in 1988, 2,598 individuals have graduated from this program. Of the program graduates, we have experienced an annual turnover rate of approximately 8.5%, which is below our company-wide average turnover rate of
approximately 10.5% for drivers. We believe our driver training and qualification programs have been important factors in improving our safety record and retaining our qualified drivers. Drivers with safe driving records are rewarded with bonuses of
up to $3,000 payable each year. Driver safety bonuses paid during 2009 and 2008 were $2.0 million in each year.







Governmental Regulation

We are subject to regulation by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Agency and the Surface Transportation Board, which are agencies within the DOT,
as well as the regulations of various state agencies. These regulatory authorities have broad powers, generally governing matters such as authority to engage in motor carrier operations, motor carrier registration, driver hours of service, safety
and fitness of transportation equipment and drivers, certain mergers, consolidations and acquisitions, and periodic financial reporting. In addition, we are subject to compliance with cargo-security and transportation regulations issued by the
Transportation Security Administration within the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.

The trucking industry is subject to
regulatory and legislative changes from a variety of other governmental authorities, which address matters such as: (i) increasingly stringent environmental and occupational safety and health regulations; (ii) limits on vehicle weight and
size; (iii) ergonomics; and (iv) hours of service. These changes may affect our business or the economics of our industry by requiring changes in operating practices, or by influencing the demand for and increasing the costs of providing
our services.

The cost of compliance with current applicable laws and regulations has not materially impacted our results of
operations or financial condition. However, future changes to laws or regulations may adversely affect our operations and could result in unforeseen costs to our business.

Environmental Regulation

We are subject to various federal, state and
local environmental laws and regulations that focus on, among other things: the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the environment or their presence on or in our properties and vehicles; fuel storage tanks; transportation of certain
materials; and the discharge or retention of storm water. Under specific environmental laws, we could also be held responsible for any costs relating to contamination at our past or present facilities and at third-party waste disposal sites, as well
as costs associated with clean-up of accidents involving our vehicles. We do not believe that the cost of future compliance with current environmental laws or regulations will have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition,
competitive position or capital expenditures for the remainder of fiscal year 2010 or fiscal year 2011. However, future changes to laws or regulations may adversely affect our operations and could result in unforeseen costs to our business.

Available Information

Through our website, http://www.odfl.com, we make available, free of charge, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports
filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Act of 1934, as soon as practicable after we electronically file the material with or furnish it to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). The
public may read or copy any document we file with the SEC at the SEC’s website,http://www.sec.gov(File No. 0-19582), or at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. The SEC can be reached at
1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the operation of the Public Reference Room. Information contained on our website is neither part of nor incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K or any other report we file with or furnish to the SEC.







