Item 1. BUSINESS

General

UDR is a self-administered real estate investment trust, or REIT, that owns, operates, acquires, renovates, develops, redevelops, disposes of, and manages multifamily apartment communities generally located in high barrier-to-entry markets throughout the United States. The high barrier-to-entry markets are characterized by limited land for new construction, difficult and lengthy entitlement processes, low single-family home affordability and strong employment growth potential. At December 31, 2017, our consolidated real estate portfolio included 127 communities located in 19 markets, with a total of 39,998 completed apartment homes, which are held directly or through our subsidiaries, including the Operating Partnership and the DownREIT Partnership, and consolidated joint ventures. In addition, we have an ownership interest in 29 communities containing 7,286 apartment homes through unconsolidated joint ventures or partnerships. As of December 31, 2017, the Company was developing two wholly-owned communities with 1,101 apartment homes, 300 of which have been completed, and two unconsolidated joint venture communities with 533 apartment homes, none of which have been completed.

At December 31, 2017, the Operating Partnership’s consolidated real estate portfolio included 53 communities located in 15 markets, with a total of 16,698 completed apartment homes. The Operating Partnership owns, operates, acquires, renovates, develops, redevelops, and manages multifamily apartment communities generally located in high barrier-to-entry markets located throughout the United States. During the year ended December 31, 2017, revenues of the Operating Partnership represented approximately 43% of our total rental revenues.

UDR has elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, which we refer to in this Report as the “Code.” To continue to qualify as a REIT, we must continue to meet certain tests which, among other things, generally require that our assets consist primarily of real estate assets, our income be derived primarily from real estate assets, and that we distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (other than our net capital gains) to our stockholders annually. As a REIT, we generally will not be subject to U.S. federal income taxes at the corporate level on our net income to the extent we distribute such net income to our stockholders annually. In 2017, we declared total distributions of $1.24 per common share and paid dividends of $1.225 per common share.

DividendsDividendsDeclared inPaid in20172017First Quarter$0.310$0.295Second Quarter0.3100.310Third Quarter0.3100.310Fourth Quarter0.3100.310Total$1.240$1.225



UDR was formed in 1972 as a Virginia corporation. In June 2003, we changed our state of incorporation from Virginia to Maryland. The Operating Partnership is the successor-in-interest to United Dominion Realty, L.P., a limited partnership formed under the laws of Virginia, which commenced operations in 1995. The Operating Partnership was redomiciled in 2004 as a Delaware limited partnership. Our corporate offices are located at 1745 Shea Center Drive, Suite 200, Highlands Ranch, Colorado and our telephone number is (720) 283‑6120. Our website iswww.udr.com. The information contained on our website, including any information referred to in this Report as being available on our website, is not a part of or incorporated into this Report.

As of February 16, 2018, we had 1,502 full-time associates and 40 part-time associates, all of whom were employed by UDR.

Reporting Segments

We report in two segments:Same-Store CommunitiesandNon-Mature Communities/Other.

Our Same-Store Communitiessegment represents those communities acquired, developed, and stabilized prior to January 1, 2016, and held as of December 31, 2017. These communities were owned and had stabilized occupancy and operating expenses as of the beginning of the prior year, there is no plan to conduct substantial redevelopment activities, and the communities are not classified as held for disposition at year end. A community is considered to have stabilized occupancy once it achieves 90% occupancy for at least three consecutive months.









OurNon-Mature Communities/Othersegment represents those communities that do not meet the criteria to be included inSame-Store Communities,including, but not limited to, recently acquired, developed and redeveloped communities, and the non-apartment components of mixed use properties. For additional information regarding our operating segments, see Note 15,Reportable Segments, in the Notes to the UDR Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Report and Note 11,Reportable Segments, in the Notes to the Operating Partnership’s Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Report.

Business Objectives

Our principal business objective is to maximize the economic returns of our apartment communities to provide our stockholders with the greatest possible total return and value. To achieve this objective, we intend to continue to pursue the following goals and strategies:

·own and operate apartments in high barrier-to-entry markets, which are characterized by limited land for new construction, difficult and lengthy entitlement processes, low single-family home affordability and strong employment growth potential, thus enhancing stability and predictability of returns to our stockholders;

·manage real estate cycles by taking an opportunistic approach to buying, selling, renovating, redeveloping, and developing apartment communities;

·empower site associates to manage our communities efficiently and effectively;

·measure and reward associates based on specific performance targets; and

·manage our capital structure to help enhance predictability of liquidity, earnings and dividends.

2017 Highlights

In July 2017, the Company marked its 45th year as a REIT and, in October 2017, paid its 180th consecutive quarterly dividend. The Company’s annualized declared 2017 dividend of $1.24 represented a 5.1% increase over the previous year.

We achieved Same-Store revenue growth of 3.7% and Same-Store net operating income (“NOI”) growth of 3.8%.

We completed two developments held by unconsolidated joint ventures in Irvine, CA and Mountain View, CA with a total of 536 apartment homes.

We completed three redevelopment projects in San Francisco, CA, Austin, TX and Dallas, TX.

As of December 31, 2017, we were developing two wholly-owned communities and two communities held by unconsolidated joint ventures.

We acquired a community in Denver, CO with 218 apartment homes and increased our ownership from 49% to 100% in an operating community located in Seattle, WA with 244 apartment homes for a total of approximately $207.5 million. The acquisition in Denver, CO will be fully or partially funded with tax-deferred like-kind exchanges under Section 1031 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.

We recognized gains on the sale of real estate of $43.4 million from the sale of two communities in Orange County, CA and Carlsbad, CA with a total of 218 apartment homes and a parcel of land in Richmond, VA.

We recognized gains of $7.6 million as a result of the sale of two communities in Seattle, WA and Anaheim, CA by the West Coast Development Joint Venture.

We contributed $87.5 million to five unconsolidated investments under our Developer Capital Program, which earn preferred returns ranging between 6.5% to 11.0%.









We issued $600 million of 3.50%, 10-year senior unsecured medium-term notes and redeemed $300 million of 4.25% unsecured medium-term notes due June 2018.

We prepaid $275.3 million of our secured credit facilities with borrowings under the unsecured commercial paper program and proceeds from the issuance of senior unsecured medium-term notes.

We entered into an unsecured commercial paper program under which we may issue unsecured commercial paper up to a maximum aggregate amount outstanding of $500 million.

Refer to Item 7,Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,for further information on the Company’s and the Operating Partnership’s activities in 2017.

Our Strategic Vision

Our strategic vision is to be the innovative multifamily public REIT of choice. We intend to realize this vision by executing on our strategic objectives, which are:

1.Maintaining a Diversified Portfolio and Allocating Capital to Accretive Investment Opportunities

2.Maintaining a Strong Balance Sheet

3.Consistently Driving Operating Excellence

4.Advancing a Strong Corporate Culture and Ensuring High Resident Satisfaction

Maintaining a Diversified Portfolio and Allocating Capital to Accretive Investment Opportunities

We believe greater portfolio diversification, as defined by geographic concentration, location within a market (i.e., urban or suburban) and property quality (i.e., A or B), reduces the volatility of our same-store growth throughout the real estate cycle, appeals to a wider renter and investor audience and lessens the market risk associated with owning a homogenous portfolio. Diversified characteristics of our portfolio include:

·our consolidated apartment portfolio includes 127 communities located in 19 markets throughout the U.S., including both Coastal and Sunbelt locations; and



·our mix of urban/suburban communities and our mix of A/B quality properties is approximately 50%/50%.

We are focused on increasing our presence in markets with favorable job formation, high propensity to rent, low single-family home affordability, and a favorable demand/supply ratio for multifamily housing. Portfolio investment decisions consider internal analyses and third-party research.

Acquisitions and Dispositions

When evaluating potential acquisitions, we consider a wide variety of factors, including:

·whether it is located in a high barrier-to-entry market;

·population growth, cost of alternative housing, overall potential for economic growth and the tax and regulatory environment of the community in which the property is located;

·geographic location, including proximity to jobs, entertainment, transportation, and our existing communities which can deliver significant economies of scale;

·construction quality, condition and design of the property;

·current and projected cash flow of the property and the ability to increase cash flow;

·ability of the property’s projected cash flows to exceed our cost of capital;

·potential for capital appreciation of the property;

·ability to increase the value and profitability of the property through operations and redevelopment;









·terms of resident leases, including the potential for rent increases;

·occupancy and demand by residents for properties of a similar type in the vicinity;

·prospects for liquidity through sale, financing, or refinancing of the property; and

·competition from existing multifamily communities and the potential for the construction of new multifamily properties in the area.

We regularly monitor our assets to increase the quality and performance of our portfolio. Factors we consider in deciding whether to dispose of a property include:

·current market price for an asset compared to projected economics for that asset;

·potential increases in new construction in the market area;

·areas with low job growth prospects;

·markets where we do not intend to establish a long-term concentration; and

·operating efficiencies.

The following table summarizes our apartment community acquisitions and dispositions and our consolidated year-end ownership position for the past five years (dollars in thousands):

20172016201520142013Homes acquired4625083,246358—Homes disposed2181,7822,7352,500914Homes owned at December 31,39,99839,45440,72839,85141,250Total real estate owned, at cost$10,177,206$9,615,753$9,190,276$8,383,259$8,207,977



The following table summarizes the Operating Partnership’s apartment community acquisitions and dispositions and year-end ownership position for the past five years (dollars in thousands):

20172016201520142013Homes acquired218—421——Homes disposed2182764,256(a)264914Homes owned at December 31,16,69816,69816,97420,81420,746Total real estate owned, at cost$3,816,956$3,674,704$3,630,905$4,238,770$4,188,480



(a)Includes 3,107 homes deconsolidated in 2015 upon contribution of communities by the Operating Partnership to the DownREIT Partnership.

Development Activities

Our objective in developing a community is to create value while improving the quality of our portfolio. Demographic trends, economic drivers, and how multifamily fundamentals and valuations have trended over the long-term generally govern our review process on where to allocate development capital. At December 31, 2017, our development pipeline included two wholly-owned communities located in Huntington Beach, California and Boston, Massachusetts with a total of 1,101 homes and an aggregate budget of $716.5 million, in which we have a total carrying value of $592.5 million.

Redevelopment Activities

Our objective in redeveloping a community is twofold: we aim to meaningfully grow rental rates while also producing a higher yielding and more valuable asset through asset quality improvement. During 2017, we continued to redevelop properties in primary markets where we concluded there was an opportunity to add value. During the year ended December 31, 2017, we incurred $15.4 million in major renovations, which include major structural changes and/or architectural revisions to existing buildings. At December 31, 2017, the Company was not redeveloping any communities.









Joint Venture and Partnership Activities

We have entered into, and may continue in the future to enter into, joint ventures (including limited liability companies or partnerships) through which we would own an indirect economic interest of less than 100% of the community or communities owned directly by such joint ventures. Our decision to either hold an apartment community in fee simple or have an indirect interest in the community through a joint venture is based on a variety of factors and considerations, including: (i) the economic and tax terms required by the seller of land or a community; (ii) our desire to diversify our portfolio of communities by market, submarket and product type; (iii) our desire at times to preserve our capital resources to maintain liquidity or balance sheet strength; and (iv) our projections, in some circumstances, that we will achieve higher returns on our invested capital or reduce our risk if a joint venture vehicle is used. Each joint venture agreement is individually negotiated, and our ability to operate and/or dispose of a community in our sole discretion may be limited to varying degrees depending on the terms of the joint venture agreement.

Maintaining a Strong Balance Sheet

We maintain a capital structure that we believe allows us to proactively source potential investment opportunities in the marketplace. We have structured our debt maturity schedule to be able to opportunistically access both secured and unsecured debt markets when appropriate.

Financing Activities

As part of our plan to finance our activities, we utilize proceeds from debt and equity offerings and refinancings to extend maturities, pay down existing debt, fund development and redevelopment activities, and acquire apartment communities.

Consistently Driving Operational Excellence

Investment in new technologies continues to drive operating efficiencies in our business and help us to better meet the changing needs of our residents. Our residents have the ability to conduct business with us 24 hours a day, 7 days a week and complete online leasing applications and renewals throughout our portfolio using our web-based resident internet portal.

As a result of transforming our operations through technology, residents’ satisfaction has improved, and our operating teams have become more efficient. Web-based technologies have also resulted in declining marketing and advertising costs, improved cash management, and better pricing management of our available apartment homes.

Operating Partnership Strategies and Vision

The Operating Partnership’s long-term strategic vision is the same as that of the Company as described above.

Competitive Conditions

Competition for new residents is generally intense across all of our markets. Some competing communities offer features that our communities do not have. Competing communities can use rental concessions or lower rents to obtain temporary competitive advantages. Also, some competing communities are larger or newer than our communities. The competitive position of each community is different depending upon many factors, including sub-market supply and demand. In addition, other real estate investors compete with us to acquire existing properties, redevelop existing properties, and to develop new properties. These competitors include insurance companies, pension and investment funds, public and private real estate companies, investment companies and other public and private apartment REITs, some of which may have greater resources, or lower capital costs, than we do.

We believe that, in general, we are well-positioned to compete effectively for residents and investments. We believe our competitive advantages include:

·a fully integrated organization with property management, development, redevelopment, acquisition, marketing, sales and financing expertise;

·scalable operating and support systems, which include automated systems to meet the changing electronic needs of our residents and to effectively focus on our Internet marketing efforts;









·access to sources of capital;

·geographic diversification with a presence in 19 markets across the country; and

·significant presence in many of our major markets that allows us to be a local operating expert.

Moving forward, we will continue to optimize lease management, improve expense control, increase resident retention efforts and align employee incentive plans with our bottom line performance. We believe this plan of operation, coupled with the portfolio’s strengths in targeting renters across a geographically diverse platform, should position us for continued operational upside.

Communities

At December 31, 2017, our consolidated real estate portfolio included 127 communities with a total of 39,998 completed apartment homes, which included the Operating Partnership’s consolidated real estate portfolio of 53 communities with a total of 16,698 completed apartment homes. The overall quality of our portfolio enables us to raise rents and to attract residents with higher levels of disposable income who are more likely to absorb such rents.

At December 31, 2017, the Company was developing two wholly-owned communities with 1,101 apartment homes, 300 of which have been completed. The communities being developed are not part of the Operating Partnership’s real estate portfolio.

At December 31, 2017, the Company was not redeveloping any communities.

Same-Store Community Comparison

We believe that one pertinent quantitative measurement of the performance of our portfolio is tracking the results of ourSame-Store Communities’NOI, which is total rental revenue, less rental and other operating expenses excluding property management. OurSame-Store Communitypopulation is comprised of operating communities which we own and have stabilized occupancy, revenues and expenses as of the beginning of the prior year.

For the year ended December 31, 2017, our Same-Store NOI increased by $22.0 million compared to the prior year. OurSame-Store Communityproperties provided 87.0% of our total NOI for the year ended December 31, 2017. The increase in NOI for the 35,471 Same-Store apartment homes, or 88.7% of our portfolio, was primarily driven by an increase in rental rates and fee and reimbursement income, partially offset by an increase in real estate taxes.

For the year ended December 31, 2017, the Operating Partnership’s Same-Store NOI increased by $10.7 million compared to the prior year. The Operating Partnership’sSame-Store Communityproperties provided 87.2% of its total NOI for the year ended December 31, 2017. The increase in NOI for the 14,840 Same-Store apartment homes, or 88.9% of the Operating Partnership’s portfolio, was primarily driven by an increase in rental rates and fee and reimbursement income, partially offset by an increase in real estate taxes.

Revenue growth in 2018 may be impacted by adverse developments affecting the general economy, reduced occupancy rates, increased rental concessions, new supply, increased bad debt and other factors which may adversely impact our ability to increase rents.

Tax Matters

UDR has elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Code. To continue to qualify as a REIT, UDR must continue to meet certain tests that, among other things, generally require that our assets consist primarily of real estate assets, our income be derived primarily from real estate assets, and that we distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (other than net capital gains) to our stockholders annually. Provided we maintain our qualification as a REIT, we generally will not be subject to U.S. federal income taxes at the corporate level on our net income to the extent such net income is distributed to our stockholders annually. Even if we continue to qualify as a REIT, we will continue to be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and property.

We may utilize our taxable REIT subsidiary (“TRS”) to engage in activities that REITs may be prohibited from performing, including the provision of management and other services to third parties and the conduct of certain





nonqualifying real estate transactions. Our TRS generally is taxable as a regular corporation, and therefore, subject to federal, state and local income taxes.

The Operating Partnership intends to qualify as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. As a partnership, the Operating Partnership generally is not a taxable entity and does not incur federal income tax liability. However, any state or local revenue, excise or franchise taxes that result from the operating activities of the Operating Partnership are incurred at the entity level.

Inflation

We believe that the direct effects of inflation on our operations have been immaterial. While the impact of inflation primarily impacts our results of operations as a result of wage pressures and increases in utilities and material costs, the majority of our apartment leases have initial terms of 12 months or less, which generally enables us to compensate for any inflationary effects by increasing rents on our apartment homes. Although an extreme escalation in costs could have a negative impact on our residents and their ability to absorb rent increases, we do not believe this has had a material impact on our results for the year ended December 31, 2017.

Environmental Matters

Various environmental laws govern certain aspects of the ongoing operation of our communities. Such environmental laws include those regulating the existence of asbestos-containing materials in buildings, management of surfaces with lead-based paint (and notices to residents about the lead-based paint), use of active underground petroleum storage tanks, and waste-management activities. The failure to comply with such requirements could subject us to a government enforcement action and/or claims for damages by a private party.

To date, compliance with federal, state and local environmental protection regulations has not had a material effect on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. We have a property management plan for hazardous materials. As part of the plan, Phase I environmental site investigations and reports have been completed for each property we acquire. In addition, all proposed acquisitions are inspected prior to acquisition. The inspections are conducted by qualified environmental consultants, and we review the issued report prior to the purchase or development of any property. Nevertheless, it is possible that the environmental assessments will not reveal all environmental liabilities, or that some material environmental liabilities exist of which we are unaware. In some cases, we have abandoned otherwise economically attractive acquisitions because the costs of removal or control of hazardous materials have been prohibitive or we have been unwilling to accept the potential risks involved. We do not believe we will be required to engage in any large-scale abatement at any of our properties. We believe that through professional environmental inspections and testing for asbestos, lead paint and other hazardous materials, coupled with a relatively conservative posture toward accepting known environmental risk, we can minimize our exposure to potential liability associated with environmental hazards.

Federal legislation requires owners and landlords of residential housing constructed prior to 1978 to disclose to potential residents or purchasers of the communities any known lead paint hazards and imposes treble damages for failure to provide such notification. In addition, lead based paint in any of the communities may result in lead poisoning in children residing in that community if chips or particles of such lead based paint are ingested, and we may be held liable under state laws for any such injuries caused by ingestion of lead based paint by children living at the communities.

We are unaware of any environmental hazards at any of our properties that individually or in the aggregate may have a material adverse impact on our operations or financial position. We have not been notified by any governmental authority, and we are not otherwise aware, of any material non-compliance, liability, or claim relating to environmental liabilities in connection with any of our properties. We do not believe that the cost of continued compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations will have a material adverse effect on us or our financial condition or results of operations. Future environmental laws, regulations, or ordinances, however, may require additional remediation of existing conditions that are not currently actionable. Also, if more stringent requirements are imposed on us in the future, the costs of compliance could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial condition.







InsuranceWe carry comprehensive general liability coverage on our communities, with limits of liability customary within the multi-family apartment industry to insure against liability claims and related defense costs. We are also insured, with limits of liability customary within the multi-family apartment industry, against the risk of direct physical damage in amounts necessary to reimburse us on a replacement cost basis for costs incurred to repair or rebuild each property, including loss of rental income during the reconstruction period.Available InformationBoth UDR and the Operating Partnership file electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission their respective annual reports on Form 10‑K, quarterly reports on Form 10‑Q, and current reports on Form 8‑K, pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. You may obtain a free copy of our annual reports on Form 10‑K, quarterly reports on Form 10‑Q, and current reports on Form 8‑K, and amendments to those reports on the day of filing with the SEC on our website atwww.udr.com, or by sending an e-mail message toir@udr.com.







