Item 1. BUSINESS

General

UDR is a self-administered real estate investment trust, or REIT, that owns, operates, acquires, renovates, develops, redevelops, and manages multifamily apartment communities generally located in high barrier-to-entry markets located throughout the United States. The high barrier-to-entry markets are characterized by limited land for new construction, difficult and lengthy entitlement processes, low single-family home affordability and strong employment growth potential. AtDecember 31, 2013, our consolidated real estate portfolio included141communities located in21markets, with a total of41,250completed apartment homes, which are held through our subsidiaries, including the Operating Partnership, and consolidated joint ventures. In addition, we have an ownership interest in37communities containing9,909apartment homes through unconsolidated joint ventures or partnerships. AtDecember 31, 2013, the Company is developingsixwholly-owned communities with1,765apartment homes,422of which have been completed, and one unconsolidated joint venture community with 447 apartment homes, none of which have been completed.

AtDecember 31, 2013, the Operating Partnership’s consolidated real estate portfolio included68communities located in17markets, with a total of20,746completed apartment homes. The Operating Partnership owns, operates, acquires, renovates, develops, redevelops, and manages multifamily apartment communities generally located in high barrier-to-entry markets located throughout the United States. During the year endedDecember 31, 2013, revenues of the Operating Partnership represented approximately54%of our total rental revenues.

UDR elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, which we refer to in this Report as the “Code”. To continue to qualify as a REIT, we must continue to meet certain tests which, among other things, generally require that our assets consist primarily of real estate assets, our income be derived primarily from real estate assets, and that we distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (other than our net capital gains) to our stockholders annually. As a qualified REIT, we generally will not be subject to U.S. federal income taxes at the corporate level on our net income to the extent we distribute such net income to our stockholders annually. In2013, we declared total distributions of$0.94per common share and paid dividends of$0.925per common share.










DividendsDeclared in2013Dividends Paidin 2013First Quarter$0.235$0.220Second Quarter0.2350.235Third Quarter0.2350.235Fourth Quarter0.2350.235Total$0.940$0.925

UDR was formed in 1972 as a Virginia corporation. In June 2003, we changed our state of incorporation from Virginia to Maryland. The Operating Partnership is the successor-in-interest to United Dominion Realty, L.P., a limited partnership formed under the laws of Virginia, which commenced operations in 1995. The Operating Partnership was redomiciled in 2004 as a Delaware limited partnership. Our corporate offices are located at 1745 Shea Center Drive, Suite 200, Highlands Ranch, Colorado and our telephone number is (720) 283-6120. Our website is located atwww.udr.com.

As ofFebruary 18, 2014, we had 1,593 full-time associates and 88 part-time associates, all of whom were employed by UDR.

Reporting Segments

We report in two segments:Same-Store CommunitiesandNon-Mature Communities/Other.

Our Same-Store Communitiessegment includes those communities acquired, developed, and stabilized prior toJanuary 1, 2012, and held as ofDecember 31, 2013. These communities were owned and had stabilized occupancy and operating expenses as of the beginning of the prior year, there is no plan to conduct substantial redevelopment activities, and the community is not classified as held for sale at year end. A community is considered to have stabilized occupancy once it achieves 90% occupancy for at least three consecutive months.

OurNon-Mature Communities/Othersegment includes those communities that were acquired or developed in 2011,2012or2013, sold properties, redevelopment properties, properties classified as real estate held for sale, consolidated joint venture properties, properties managed by third parties, and the non-apartment components of mixed use properties. For additional information regarding our operating segments, see Note 15,Reportable Segments, in the Notes to the UDR Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Report and Note 12,Reportable Segments, in the Notes to the Operating Partnership’s Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Report.

Business Objectives

Our principal business objective is to maximize the economic returns of our apartment communities to provide our stockholders with the greatest possible total return and value. To achieve this objective, we intend to continue to pursue the following goals and strategies:

•own and operate apartments in high barrier-to-entry markets, which are characterized by limited land for new construction, difficult and lengthy entitlement processes, low single-family home affordability and strong employment growth potential, thus enhancing stability and predictability of returns to our stockholders;

•manage real estate cycles by taking an opportunistic approach to buying, selling, renovating, redeveloping, and developing apartment communities;

•empower site associates to manage our communities efficiently and effectively;

•measure and reward associates based on specific performance targets; and

•manage our capital structure to help enhance predictability of earnings and dividends.

2013Highlights

•In July 2013, the Company marked its 41st year as a REIT and paid its 164th consecutive quarterly dividend in October. The Company’s annualized declared 2013 dividend of $0.94 represented a 7% increase over the previous year.

•We achieved Same-Store revenue growth of 4.9% and Same-Store net operating income (“NOI”) growth of 6.0%.










•During the year ended December, 31, 2013, we invested approximately $279.6 million in wholly-owned development projects and $92.1 million in redevelopment projects, including completion of 904 development apartment homes and 837 redevelopment apartment homes in targeted core markets.

•We expanded our relationship with the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company (“MetLife”):

•Formed five 50%/50% partnerships in our Vitruvian Park® master plan development project consisting of three operating communities and approximately 28 acres of developable land in Addison, Texas. In connection with the formation of the five partnerships, we sold 50% of our interests in the three operating communities and the developable land to MetLife for approximately $141.3 million.

•Expanded the UDR/MetLife II joint venture by increasing our ownership interests in two A-quality, high-rise communities located in Denver, Colorado and San Diego, California in exchange for our ownership interests in four non-core UDR/MetLife I joint venture communities plus an additional $15.6 million in cash.

•Formed a 51%/49% joint venture with MetLife to develop a $318 million, 447-home high-rise located in the Rincon Hill neighborhood of San Francisco, California. In connection with the formation, we sold 49% of our interest to MetLife for approximately $29.9 million.

•We issued $300 million of 3.70%, 7-year senior unsecured medium-term notes in September. Net proceeds were used to repay indebtedness on our unsecured revolving credit facility and for general corporate purposes.

•We amended and favorably re-priced our $900 million unsecured revolving credit facility and $350 million of unsecured term notes.

•We sold our 95% interest in a recently developed joint venture community, the Lodge at Stoughton, located in Metro Boston, for $48.5 million, resulting in a gain (before tax) of approximately $8.3 million.

•We entered into a participating debt financing arrangement with a third party that is developing a $108 million, 218-home, high-rise luxury community located in the Cherry Creek neighborhood of Metro Denver.

Other than the following, there were no significant changes to the Operating Partnership’s business during2013(the above2013highlights relate to UDR or other subsidiaries of UDR):

•We exited the Sacramento market through the disposition of two communities for gross proceeds $81.1 million resulting in a gain of approximately $41.5 million.

Refer to Item 7,Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,for further information on the Company’s and the Operating Partnership’s activities in 2013.

Our Strategies and Vision

Our vision is to be the innovative multifamily public REIT of choice. Our strategic priorities are:

1.Strengthen the Quality of Our Portfolio2.Flexible/Strong Balance Sheet3.Increase Cash Flow to Support Dividend Growth4.A Great Place to Work and Live

Capital Allocation

Acquisitions and Dispositions

When evaluating potential acquisitions, we consider:

•population growth, cost of alternative housing, overall potential for economic growth and the tax and regulatory environment of the community in which the property is located;

•geographic location, including proximity to jobs, entertainment, transportation, and our existing communities which can deliver significant economies of scale;

•construction quality, condition and design of the property;










•current and projected cash flow of the property and the ability to increase cash flow;

•potential for capital appreciation of the property;

•ability to increase the value and profitability of the property through operations and redevelopment;

•whether it is located in a high barrier-to-entry market;

•terms of resident leases, including the potential for rent increases;

•occupancy and demand by residents for properties of a similar type in the vicinity;

•prospects for liquidity through sale, financing, or refinancing of the property; and

•competition from existing multifamily communities and the potential for the construction of new multifamily properties in the area.

We regularly monitor our assets to increase the quality and performance of our portfolio. Factors we consider in deciding whether to dispose of a property include:

•current market price for an asset compared to projected economics for that asset;

•potential increases in new construction in the market area;

•areas with low job growth prospects;

•markets where we do not intend to establish a long-term concentration; and

•operating efficiencies.

The following table summarizes our apartment community acquisitions and dispositions and our consolidated year-end ownership position for the past five years (dollars in thousands):

20132012201120102009Homes acquired—6333,1611,374289Homes disposed9146,5074,488149—Homes owned at December 3141,25041,57147,34348,55345,913Total real estate owned, at cost$8,207,977$8,055,828$8,074,471$6,881,347$6,315,047

The following table summarizes our apartment community acquisitions and dispositions and our year-end ownership position of the Operating Partnership for the past five years (dollars in thousands):

20132012201120102009Homes acquired——1,833——Homes disposed9141,3142,024——Homes owned at December 3120,74621,66023,16023,35123,351Total real estate owned, at cost$4,188,480$4,182,920$4,205,298$3,706,184$3,640,888

Development Activities

Our objective in developing a community is to create value while improving the quality of our portfolio. Demographic trends, economic drivers, and how multifamily fundamentals/valuations have trended over the long-term govern our review process on where to allocate development capital. At December 31, 2013, our development pipeline for six wholly-owned communities located in San Francisco, California; Huntington Beach, California; Mission Viejo, California; Boston, Massachusetts; College Park, Maryland; and Alexandria, Virginia totaled 1,765 homes, 422 of which have been completed, with a budget of $697.6 million in which we have a carrying value of $467.4 million.

Redevelopment Activities

Our objective in redeveloping a community is twofold: we aim to meaningfully grow rental rates while also producing a higher yielding and more valuable asset through asset quality improvement. During 2013, we continued to redevelop properties in targeted markets where we concluded there was an opportunity to add value. At December 31, 2013, the Company is redeveloping 1,423 apartment homes, 1,008 of which have been completed, at two wholly-owned communities with 1,670 apartment homes located in New York, New York and Costa Mesa, California. The scope of the redevelopments at both projects changed in the fourth quarter. The budget for our Rivergate project in Manhattan expanded due to the identification of further










revenue generating opportunities, while we tabled for the foreseeable future additional home interior renovations at our 27 Seventy Five Mesa Verde project in Orange County due to lower than expected demand in that particular submarket. During the year ended December 31, 2013, we incurred $112.7 million in major renovations, which include major structural changes and/or architectural revisions to existing buildings.

Joint Venture Activities

We have entered into, and may continue in the future to enter into, joint ventures (including limited liability companies or partnerships) through which we would own an indirect economic interest of less than 100% of the community or communities owned directly by such joint ventures.  Our decision to either hold an apartment community in fee simple or have an indirect interest in the community through a joint venture is based on a variety of factors and considerations, including: (i) the economic and tax terms required by the seller of land or a community; (ii) our desire to diversify our portfolio of communities by market, submarket and product type; (ii) our desire at times to preserve our capital resources to maintain liquidity or balance sheet strength; and (iv) our projections, in some circumstances, that we will achieve higher returns on our invested capital or reduce our risk if a joint venture vehicle is used. Each joint venture agreement is individually negotiated, and our ability to operate and/or dispose of a community in our sole discretion may be limited to varying degrees depending on the terms of the joint venture agreement.

The Operating Partnership is not a party to any of the joint venture activities described above.

Balance Sheet Management

We maintain a capital structure that we believe allows us to proactively source potential investment opportunities in the marketplace. We have structured our debt maturity schedule to be able to opportunistically access both secured and unsecured debt markets when appropriate.

Financing Activities

As part of our plan to finance our activities, we utilize proceeds from debt and equity offerings and refinancings to extend maturities, pay down existing debt, fund development and redevelopment activities, and acquire apartment communities.

Operational Excellence, Cash Flow and Dividend Growth

Investment in new technologies continues to drive operating efficiencies in our business and help us to better meet the changing needs of our residents. Since its launch in January 2009, our residents have been utilizing our web-based resident internet portal on our website. Our residents have the ability to conduct business with us 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. In July 2010, we completed the roll out of online leasing renewals throughout our portfolio. As a result of transforming our operations through technology, resident’s satisfaction improved, and our operating teams have become more efficient. Web-based technologies have also resulted in declining marketing and advertising costs, improved cash management, and better pricing management of our available apartment homes.

In 2013, UDR rolled out an online leasing platform that allows prospects to apply directly online.  As of December 31, 2013, over 40% of our leases have been processed using online leasing.  We also focused heavily on conversion optimization of our traffic through UDR.com, which resulted in a 14% increase from the prior year.

Portfolio Improvement

We are focused on increasing our presence in markets with favorable job formation, high propensity to rent, low single-family home affordability, and a favorable demand/supply ratio for multifamily housing. Portfolio investment decisions consider internal analyses and third-party research.

For the year ended December 31, 2013, approximately 69.5% of our same-store net operating income (“NOI”) was generated by communities located in our core markets of: Seattle, Washington; San Francisco Bay Area, California; Los Angeles, California; Orange County, California; San Diego, California; Austin, Texas; Dallas, Texas; Boston, Massachusetts; New York, New York; Baltimore, Maryland; and Metropolitan D.C.

Operating Partnership Strategies and Vision

The Operating Partnership’s long-term strategic plan is to achieve greater operating efficiencies by investing in fewer, more concentrated markets and enhance resident and associate service through technology. As a result, the Operating Partnership has sought to expand its interests in communities located in New York, New York; San Francisco Bay Area,










California; Boston, Massachusetts; and Metropolitan D.C. markets over the past years. Prospectively, we plan to continue to channel new investments into those markets we believe will continue to provide the best investment returns. Markets will be targeted based upon defined criteria including above average job growth, low single-family home affordability and limited new supply for multifamily housing, which are three key drivers to strong rental growth.

Markets and Competitive Conditions

During the year endedDecember 31, 2013, 69.5% of our consolidated same-store net operating income (“NOI”) was generated from apartment homes located in our core markets. AtDecember 31, 2013, the Company held 74.5% of its same-store carrying value of its real estate portfolio in our core markets. During the year endedDecember 31, 2013, 77.8% of the Operating Partnership’s same-store NOI was generated from apartment homes located in our core markets. AtDecember 31, 2013, the Operating Partnership held 81.1% of its same-store carrying value of its real estate portfolio in its core markets. We believe that this diversification increases investment opportunity and decreases the risk associated with cyclical local real estate markets and economies, thereby increasing the stability and predictability of our earnings.

Competition for new residents is generally intense across all of our markets. Some competing communities offer features that our communities do not have. Competing communities can use rental concessions or lower rents to obtain temporary competitive advantages. Also, some competing communities are larger or newer than our communities. The competitive position of each community is different depending upon many factors including sub-market supply and demand. In addition, other real estate investors compete with us to acquire existing properties, redevelop existing properties, and to develop new properties. These competitors include insurance companies, pension and investment funds, public and private real estate companies, investment companies and other public and private apartment REITs, some of which may have greater resources, or lower capital costs, than we do.

We believe that, in general, we are well-positioned to compete effectively for residents and investments. We believe our competitive advantages include:

•a fully integrated organization with property management, development, redevelopment, acquisition, marketing, sales and financing expertise;

•scalable operating and support systems, which include automated systems to meet the changing electronic needs of our residents and to effectively focus on our Internet marketing efforts;

•access to sources of capital;

•geographic diversification with a presence in 21 markets across the country; and

•significant presence in many of our major markets that allows us to be a local operating expert.

Moving forward, we will continue to optimize lease management, improve expense control, increase resident retention efforts and align employee incentive plans with our bottom line performance. We believe this plan of operation, coupled with the portfolio’s strengths in targeting renters across a geographically diverse platform, should position us for continued operational upside.

Communities

AtDecember 31, 2013, our consolidated real estate portfolio included141communities with a total of41,250completed apartment homes, which included the Operating Partnership’s consolidated real estate portfolio of68communities with a total of20,746completed apartment homes. The overall quality of our portfolio enables us to raise rents and to attract residents with higher levels of disposable income who are more likely to absorb such rents.

AtDecember 31, 2013, the Company is developingsixwholly-owned communities with1,765apartment homes,422of which have been completed. Of these six development communities, the Operating Partnership is developing one wholly-owned community totaling 332 homes, none of which have been completed atDecember 31, 2013. In addition, at December 31, 2013, the Company had two communities with 731 apartment homes which were completed but not yet stabilized.

AtDecember 31, 2013, the Company is redeveloping 1,423 apartment homes, 1,008 of which have been completed, attwowholly-owned communities with1,670apartment homes. The scope of the redevelopments at both projects changed in the fourth quarter. The budget for our Rivergate project in Manhattan expanded due to the identification of further revenue generating opportunities, while we tabled for the foreseeable future additional home interior renovations at our 27 Seventy Five Mesa Verde project in Orange County due to lower than expected demand in that particular submarket. The Operating Partnership owns 27 Seventy Five Mesa Verde.










Same-Store Community Comparison

We believe that one pertinent quantitative measurement of the performance of our portfolio is tracking the results of our same-store communities’ NOI, which is total rental revenue, less rental expenses excluding property management and other operating expenses. Our same-store community population are operating communities which we own and have stabilized occupancy, revenues and expenses as of the beginning of the prior year.

For the year endedDecember 31, 2013, our same-store NOIincreasedby$23.9 millionor6.0%compared to the prior year. Our same-store community properties provided 83% of our total NOI for the year ended December 31, 2013. Theincreasein NOI for the35,790same-store apartment homes, or 87% of our portfolio, was driven by an increase in rental rates, fee and reimbursement income, and increased occupancy, partially offset by an increase in operating expenses.

For the year endedDecember 31, 2013, the Operating Partnership’s same-store NOIincreasedby$13.3 millionor5.9%compared to the prior year.  Our same-store community properties provided 84% of our total NOI for the year ended December 31, 2013. Theincreasein NOI for the18,616same-store apartment homes, or 90% of the Operating Partnership’s portfolio, was driven by an increase in rental rates, fee and reimbursement income, and increased occupancy, partially offset by an increase in operating expenses.

Revenue growth in 2014 may be impacted by general adverse conditions affecting the economy, reduced occupancy rates, increased rental concessions, new supply, increased bad debt and other factors which may adversely impact our ability to increase rents.

Tax Matters

UDR has elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Code. To continue to qualify as a REIT, UDR must continue to meet certain tests that, among other things, generally require that our assets consist primarily of real estate assets, our income be derived primarily from real estate assets, and that we distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (other than net capital gains) to our stockholders annually. Provided we maintain our qualification as a REIT, we generally will not be subject to U.S. federal income taxes at the corporate level on our net income to the extent such net income is distributed to our stockholders annually. Even if we continue to qualify as a REIT, we will continue to be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and property.

We may utilize our taxable REIT subsidiary (“TRS”), RE3, to engage in activities that REITs may be prohibited from performing, including the provision of management and other services to third parties and the conduct of certain nonqualifying real estate transactions. Our TRS generally is taxable as a regular corporation, and therefore, subject to federal, state and local income taxes.

The Operating Partnership intends to qualify as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. As a partnership, the Operating Partnership generally is not a taxable entity and does not incur federal income tax liability. However, any state or local revenue, excise or franchise taxes that result from the operating activities of the Operating Partnership are incurred at the entity level.

Inflation

We believe that the direct effects of inflation on our operations have been immaterial. While the impact of inflation primarily impacts our results through wage pressures, property taxes, utilities and material costs, substantially all of our leases are for a term of 14 months or less, which generally enables us to compensate for any inflationary effects by increasing rents on our apartment homes. Although an escalation in energy and food costs could have a negative impact on our residents and their ability to absorb rent increases, we do not believe this has had a material impact on our results for the year endedDecember 31, 2013.

Environmental Matters

Various environmental laws govern certain aspects of the ongoing operation of our communities. Such environmental laws include those regulating the existence of asbestos-containing materials in buildings, management of surfaces with lead-based paint (and notices to residents about the lead-based paint), use of active underground petroleum storage tanks, and waste-management activities. The failure to comply with such requirements could subject us to a government enforcement action and/or claims for damages by a private party.

To date, compliance with federal, state and local environmental protection regulations has not had a material effect on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. We have a property management plan for hazardous materials. As part of










the plan, Phase I environmental site investigations and reports have been completed for each property we acquire. In addition, all proposed acquisitions are inspected prior to acquisition. The inspections are conducted by qualified environmental consultants, and we review the issued report prior to the purchase or development of any property. Nevertheless, it is possible that the environmental assessments will not reveal all environmental liabilities, or that some material environmental liabilities exist of which we are unaware. In some cases, we have abandoned otherwise economically attractive acquisitions because the costs of removal or control of hazardous materials have been prohibitive or we have been unwilling to accept the potential risks involved. We do not believe we will be required to engage in any large-scale abatement at any of our properties. We believe that through professional environmental inspections and testing for asbestos, lead paint and other hazardous materials, coupled with a relatively conservative posture toward accepting known environmental risk, we can minimize our exposure to potential liability associated with environmental hazards.

Federal legislation requires owners and landlords of residential housing constructed prior to 1978 to disclose to potential residents or purchasers of the communities any known lead paint hazards and imposes treble damages for failure to provide such notification. In addition, lead based paint in any of the communities may result in lead poisoning in children residing in that community if chips or particles of such lead based paint are ingested, and we may be held liable under state laws for any such injuries caused by ingestion of lead based paint by children living at the communities.

We are unaware of any environmental hazards at any of our properties that individually or in the aggregate may have a material adverse impact on our operations or financial position. We have not been notified by any governmental authority, and we are not otherwise aware, of any material non-compliance, liability, or claim relating to environmental liabilities in connection with any of our properties. We do not believe that the cost of continued compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations will have a material adverse effect on us or our financial condition or results of operations. Future environmental laws, regulations, or ordinances, however, may require additional remediation of existing conditions that are not currently actionable. Also, if more stringent requirements are imposed on us in the future, the costs of compliance could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial condition.

Insurance

We carry comprehensive general liability coverage on our communities, with limits of liability customary within the multi-family apartment industry to insure against liability claims and related defense costs. We are also insured, with limits of liability customary within the multi-family apartment industry, against the risk of direct physical damage in amounts necessary to reimburse us on a replacement cost basis for costs incurred to repair or rebuild each property, including loss of rental income during the reconstruction period.

Executive Officers of the Company

UDR is the sole general partner of the Operating Partnership. The following table sets forth information about our executive officers as ofFebruary 19, 2014. The executive officers listed below serve in their respective capacities at the discretion of our Board of Directors.

NameAgeOfficeSinceThomas W. Toomey53President, Chief Executive Officer, and Director2001Warren L. Troupe60Senior Executive Vice President2008Harry G. Alcock51Senior Vice President — Asset Management2010Jerry A. Davis51Senior Vice President — Chief Operating Officer2013Thomas M. Herzog51Senior Vice President — Chief Financial Officer2013Mark A. Schumacher55Senior Vice President — Chief Accounting Officer2012R. Scott Wesson51Senior Vice President — Chief Information Officer2011

Set forth below is certain biographical information about our executive officers.

Mr. Toomey spearheads the vision and strategic direction of the Company and oversees its executive officers. He joined us in February 2001 as President, Chief Executive Officer and Director. Prior to joining us, Mr. Toomey was with Apartment Investment and Management Company (AIMCO), where he served as Chief Operating Officer for two years and Chief Financial Officer for four years. During his tenure at AIMCO, Mr. Toomey was instrumental in the growth of AIMCO from 34,000 apartment homes to 360,000 apartment homes. He has also served as a Senior Vice President at Lincoln Property Company, a national real estate development, property management and real estate consulting company, from 1990 to 1995. Mr. Toomey has served on the board of directors of The Ryland Group, Inc., a New York Stock Exchange-listed home builder,










since December 2013. He currently serves as a member of the Board of Governors of the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (NAREIT), as a member of the Executive Committee of the National Multi Housing Council (NMHC), as a member of the Real Estate Roundtable and as a trustee and governor of the Urban Land Institute. Mr. Toomey also serves on the National Geographic International Council of Advisors and is a former trustee of the Oregon State University Foundation.

Mr. Troupe oversees all financial, treasury, tax and legal functions of the Company. He joined us in March 2008 as Senior Executive Vice President. In May 2008, he was appointed the Company’s Corporate Compliance Officer and in October 2008 he was named the Company’s Corporate Secretary. Prior to joining us, Mr. Troupe was a partner with Morrison & Forester LLP from 1997 to 2008. He currently serves as a member of the Executive Council of the National Multi Housing Council (NMHC), and is a member of the Pension Real Estate Association (PREA) and the Urban Land Institute.

Mr. Alcock oversees the Company’s acquisitions, dispositions, development, redevelopment and asset management. He joined us in December 2010 as Senior Vice President — Asset Management. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Alcock was with AIMCO for over 16 years, serving most recently as Executive Vice President, co-Head of Transactions and Asset Management. He was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Investment officer in 1999, a position he held through 2007. Mr. Alcock established and chaired the company’s Investment Committee, established the portfolio management function and at various times ran the property debt and redevelopment departments.

Mr. Davis oversees property operations, human resources and technology. He originally joined us in March 1989 as Controller and subsequently moved into Operations as an Area Director and in 2001, he accepted the position of Chief Operating Officer of JH Management Co., a California-based apartment company. He returned to the Company in March 2002 and in 2013, Mr. Davis was promoted to Senior Vice President — Chief Operating Officer. He began his career in 1984 as a Staff Accountant for Arthur Young & Co.

Mr. Herzog oversees the areas of accounting, tax, financial planning and analysis, investor relations and SEC reporting. He joined us in January 2013 as Senior Vice President — Chief Financial Officer. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Herzog served as Chief Financial Officer for Amstar, a Denver-based real estate investment company.  From 2009 to 2011 Mr. Herzog served as Chief Financial Officer of HCP, Inc., an S&P 500 health care REIT. From 2004 to 2009 Mr. Herzog was with AIMCO where he began in the role of Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer and then was promoted in 2005 to Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. From 2000 to 2004 he served in the roles of Chief Accounting Officer & Global Controller and Finance Technical Advisor for GE Real Estate.  Prior to joining GE Real Estate, Mr. Herzog was with Deloitte & Touche LLP for ten years, where he served in positions of increasing responsibility, including a two-year national office assignment in the real estate group.

Mr. Schumacher oversees all accounting and tax functions of the Company. He joined us in April 2012 as Senior Vice President — Chief Accounting Officer. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Schumacher was with Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, a textbook and trade publisher, from 2008 to 2011, where he initially served as Senior Vice President, Finance & Chief Accounting Officer and was promoted to Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer for the K-12 division.  From 2002 to 2007 he was with Archstone Smith as Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer.  Prior to this time Mr. Schumacher was with US West for over 18 years where he held positions of increasing responsibility in accounting, budgeting and financial analysis.  The company merged with Qwest Communications in 2000, where he served as Vice President, Controller from January 2001 through December 2001. Qwest and Mr. Schumacher were the subject of civil and administrative actions brought by the Securities and Exchange Commission in 2004 and 2005 related to accounting, internal control and reporting violations at Qwest. Mr. Schumacher began his career as an accountant with Coopers & Lybrand in Denver, Colorado.

Mr. Wesson oversees all aspects of the Company’s information technology infrastructure and strategy. He joined us in May 2011 as Senior Vice President — Chief Information Officer. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Wesson was with RealFoundations, a global real estate management consultancy, where he served as Managing Director from 2008 to 2011. From 1997 to 2008 he was with AIMCO where he served as Senior Vice President, Chief Investment Officer. He took on the additional role of Chief Strategy Officer for AIMCO in 2006. From 1991 to 1997 Mr. Wesson was with Lincoln Property Company in the role of Vice President of Information Systems. Prior to that time he worked for five years as a District Manager for ADP.

Available Information

Both UDR and the Operating Partnership file electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission their respective annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K, pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. You may obtain a free copy of our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports on the day of filing with the SEC on our website atwww.udr.com, or by sending an e-mail message toir@udr.com.














