10-K


w84287e10vk.htm

FORM 10-K TELEFLEX INCORPORATED

e10vk


SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

[X]

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 29, 2002

OR

[  ]

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
THE

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period
from

to

Commission File No. 1-5353

TELEFLEX INCORPORATED

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its
charter)

Delaware

(State or other jurisdiction of

incorporation or organization)

23-1147939

(I.R.S. Employer

Identification No.)

630 West Germantown Pike, Suite 450,
    Plymouth Meeting, Pennsylvania

(Address of principal executive offices)


(Zip Code)

Registrant’s telephone number, including
area code: (610) 834-6301

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(b) of the Act:

Common Stock, par value $1 per
share — New York Stock Exchange

Preference Stock Purchase Rights — New
York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(g) of the Act:

NONE

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of
delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this
Form 10-K.

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
(1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
that the registrant was required to file such reports) and
(2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the
past 90 days.

YES

X

NO

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is
an accelerated filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).

YES

X

NO

The aggregate market value of the Common Stock of
the registrant held by non-affiliates of the registrant
(35,093,640 shares) on June 28, 2002 (the last
business day of the registrant’s most recently completed
fiscal second quarter) was $2,005,601,526. The aggregate market
value was computed by reference to the closing price of the
Common Stock on such date.

The registrant had 39,438,399 Common Shares
outstanding as of February 28, 2003.

Documents Incorporated by Reference:
(a) Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended
December 29, 2002, incorporated partially in Part I
and Part II hereof; and (b) Proxy Statement for the
2003 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, incorporated partially in
Part III hereof.



PART I

Item 1.     Business

Teleflex Incorporated (“the Company”)
was incorporated in 1943 as a manufacturer of precision
mechanical push/pull controls for military aircraft. From this
original single market, single product orientation, the Company
began to emphasize products and services in a broader range of
economically diverse markets to reduce its vulnerability to
economic cycles. Since the mid-1970s, the Company’s
investments have been directed toward specific market niches
employing its technical capabilities to provide solutions to
specific engineering problems and toward expanding into medical
businesses. The continuing stream of new products and
value-added product improvements that have resulted from this
strategy have enabled the Company to participate in larger
market segments. Several of these new products and product
improvements were developed by means of an unusual investment
program of the Company called the New Venture Fund. Established
in 1972, the Fund directs monies representing one-half percent
of sales into the development of new products and services. This
concept allows for entrepreneurial risk taking in new areas by
encouraging innovation and competition among the Company’s
managers for funds to pursue new programs and activities
independent of their operating budgets. Examples of New Venture
projects include the funding of second generation adjustable
pedal research, flexible fuel hose and most of the early seed
money for certain medical products.

The Company’s annual report on
Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current
reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports
will be made available free of charge through the Investor
Relations section of the Company’s Internet website
(http://www.teleflex.com) as soon as practicable after such
material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the
Securities and Exchange Commission.

The Company’s business is separated into
three business segments — Commercial, Medical and
Aerospace.

COMMERCIAL SEGMENT

The Commercial Segment designs and manufactures
proprietary mechanical and electrical controls for the
automotive market; mechanical, electronic and hydraulic
controls, and electronic products for the recreational marine
market; and proprietary products for fluid transfer and
industrial applications. Products in the Commercial Segment
generally are produced in higher unit volume than those of the
Company’s other two segments. They are manufactured for
broad distribution as well as custom fabricated to meet
individual customer needs. For the most part consumer spending
patterns influence the market trends for these products. The
Commercial Segment consists of three major product lines:
Automotive, Marine, and Industrial.

The Company is a major supplier of driver control
systems to automotive manufacturers worldwide. The principal
products in this market are automatic and manual transmission
gearshift systems; mechanical and electronic throttle systems;
complete pedal box systems, including adjustable pedals; and
various release cables and flexible fluoropolymer hoses.
Acceptance by the automobile manufacturers of a
Company-developed control for use on a new model ordinarily
assures the Company a large, but not exclusive, market share for
the supply of that control. In 2000, the Company acquired GFI
Control Systems, a Tier I supplier of natural gas and
propane systems, and hydrogen components to the alternative fuel
vehicle market. To broaden the geographic offering of products
to the alternative fuel market, the Company acquired
Autogastechniek Holland b.v., providing greater presence in
the European market. Also in 2002, the Company acquired a
majority stake in Uniflex, Inc., a manufacturer of mechanical
controls for the automobile industry in Japan.

The Company is a leading domestic producer of
mechanical steering systems for recreational powerboats. It also
manufactures hydraulic steering systems, engine throttle and
shift controls, electrical gauges and instrumentation,
navigation systems and electronic fishfinders. The
Company’s marine products are sold to boatbuilders and in
the aftermarket, with the Humminbird line of electronic
fishfinders sold substantially through retail outlets. These
products are used principally on recreational craft. In February
2001, the Company acquired Morse Controls, a supplier of
performance and control systems and aftermarket parts to the
recreational and commercial marine markets, as well as for the
truck, bus, construction and agricultural vehicle markets.



Industrial controls and electrical
instrumentation products are also manufactured for use in other
applications, including construction and agricultural equipment,
leisure vehicles and other on- and off-road vehicles. In
addition, the Company produces stainless steel overbraided
fluoroplastic hose for fluid transfer in such markets as the
chemical, petroleum, food processing and automotive industries.
In July 2001, the Company acquired the Fluid Handling Division
of McKechnie Vehicle Components. With operations in the United
States and Europe, this acquisition added fuel vapor assemblies,
brake vacuum assemblies and other products to the Company’s
existing product lines, expanding the Company’s offering to
the automotive and truck fluid transfer markets. To broaden its
industrial product line, the Company acquired Southwest Wire
Rope in May 2002, a cable fabricator serving the offshore
drilling, utilities and heavy equipment markets.

MEDICAL SEGMENT

The Medical Segment manufactures and distributes
a broad range of invasive disposable and reusable devices for
the urology, gastroenterology, anesthesiology and respiratory
care markets worldwide. It also designs and manufactures a
variety of specialty surgical products, and provides instrument
management services. Products in this segment generally are
required to meet exacting standards of performance and have long
product life cycles. Economic influences on sales relate
primarily to spending patterns in the worldwide medical devices
and supply market.

Within the Medical Segment, the Company has two
major product lines: Health Care Supply, formerly Hospital
Supply, and Surgical Devices. The Company also supplies other
medical devices manufacturers with standard and custom-designed
semi-finished components using its polymer materials and
processing technology, including precision extrusions.

The Health Care Supply product line, operating as
Rusch International, has established a manufacturing base and
distribution network, primarily in Europe. Acquisitions designed
to broaden the Company’s product and geographic offerings
have been made over the years. During 2000, the Company acquired
Medical Marketing Group, a supplier of specialty catheters to
the United States home care market. The Health Care Supply
product line includes the manufacture and sale of invasive
disposable and reusable devices for the urology,
gastroenterology, anesthesiology and respiratory care markets
worldwide. Product offerings include, among others, catheters,
endotracheal tubes, laryngoscopes, face masks, tracheostomy
tubes and stents for airway management, fluoropolymer-based
precision tubing, components and wire products.

Surgical Devices designs, manufactures and
distributes, largely through its own sales force, instruments
used in surgical procedures. These products include general and
specialized surgical instruments primarily for the
cardiovascular, ear, nose and throat, and orthopedic markets,
and closure products, such as ligation clips, appliers and skin
staplers. The Company also provides specialized instrument
management services. In 1997, the acquisition of a manufacturer
with a complementary line of closure products increased the
Company’s product offerings. During 1998 and 1999, the
Company acquired Sterilization Management Group (SMG) and a
majority of the shares of Medical Sterilization, Inc., thus
expanding its instrument management service capabilities. In
1999, the Company extended its mix and distribution of the
Surgical Devices product line in the United States with the
acquisition of Kmedic, an orthopedic instrument company. In
2002, the Company further increased its product offerings to the
orthopedic market with the acquisition of Beere Medical
Precision Instruments, a manufacturer and supplier of surgical
instrumentation for the spinal surgery market.

AEROSPACE SEGMENT

The Aerospace Segment serves the commercial
aerospace, power generation and industrial turbomachinery
markets and, to a lesser extent, the military market. Its
businesses design and manufacture cargo handling systems and
containers for aviation, and provide surface treatments, repair
services and manufactured components for users of both flight
and ground-based turbine engines. Sales are both to original
equipment manufacturers and the aftermarket. These products and
services, many of which are proprietary, require a high degree
of engineering sophistication and are often custom designed.
Economic influences on these products and services relate
primarily to spending patterns in the worldwide aerospace
industry and to demand for power generation.



Baggage and cargo handling systems are
manufactured and sold under the Telair International brand name.
The Company’s baggage and cargo handling systems include
patented, digitally controlled systems to move and secure
containers of cargo inside commercial aircraft. In 1997, the
Company acquired Scandinavian Bellyloading Company, a European
manufacturer of cargo loading systems for narrow-body aircraft,
which complemented the Company’s existing wide-body cargo
handling systems. Cargo handling systems are sold either to
aircraft manufacturers as original installations or to airlines
and air freight carriers for retrofit of existing systems. The
acquisition of Century Aero Products in 1999 and Air Cargo
Equipment Corporation in 2000, both domestic manufacturers of
cargo containers, further complemented the Company’s cargo
handling systems and positions the Company as a full service
provider of both wide-body and narrow-body systems and
components. The Company also designs, manufactures and repairs
mechanical and electromechanical components used on both
commercial and, to a lesser extent, military aircraft. These
other aircraft controls include flight controls, canopy and door
actuators, cargo winches and control valves. In addition, the
Company supplies spare parts to aircraft operators. This spare
parts business extends as long as the particular type of
aircraft continues in service.

Through a network of facilities in eight
countries, Teleflex provides a variety of sophisticated
protective coatings and repair services marketed under the
Sermatech International brand. These services are for ground
turbine engine components, highly-specialized repairs for
critical components such as fan blades and airfoils for
flight-based turbine engines, and manufacturing and high quality
dimensional finishing of airfoils and other turbine engine
components. The Company offers a diverse range of technical
services and materials technologies to turbine markets
throughout the world. Through a joint venture with General
Electric Aircraft Engines called, Airfoil Technologies
International LLC (ATI), the Company provides fan blade and
airfoil repair services for flight-based turbine engine blades.
ATI serves as a vehicle for the technological and geographic
expansion of the Sermatech repairs services business. In 2000,
the Company acquired an engineering firm, Turbine Technology
Services Corporation, which broadened the Company’s
capabilities and provides a mechanism for expanding the coating
and repair services to the power generation market.

MARKETING

In 2002, the percentages of the Company’s
consolidated net sales represented by its major markets were as
follows: Commercial — 52%; Medical — 22%;
and Aerospace — 26%.

The major portion of the Company’s
Automotive and Industrial products are sold to original
equipment manufacturers. The majority of the Company’s
Marine and Aerospace products are sold to the aftermarket.
Medical products are sold both directly to hospitals and to
distributors, with a small portion sold to original equipment
manufacturers. Generally, products sold to the aerospace and
automotive markets are sold through the Company’s own force
of field engineers. Products sold to the marine, medical and
general industrial markets are sold both through the
Company’s own sales forces and through independent
representatives and independent distributor networks.

For information on foreign operations and export
sales, see text under the heading “Business segments and
other information” on page 25 of the Company’s
2002 Annual Report to Shareholders, which information is
incorporated herein by reference.

COMPETITION

The Company has varying degrees of competition in
all elements of its business. None of the Company’s
competitors offers products for all the markets served by the
Company. The Company believes that its competitive position
depends on the technical competence and creative ability of its
engineering and development personnel, and the know-how and
skill of its manufacturing personnel, as well as its plants,
tooling and other resources.

PATENTS

The Company owns a number of patents and has a
number of patent applications pending. The Company does not
believe that its business is materially dependent on patent
protection.



SUPPLIERS

Materials used in the manufacture of the
Company’s products are purchased from a large number of
suppliers around the world. The Company is not dependent upon
any single supplier for a substantial amount of the materials it
uses.

BACKLOG AND SEASONAL NATURE OF
BUSINESS

As of December 29, 2002, the Company’s
backlog of firm orders for the Aerospace Segment was
$255 million, of which it is anticipated that more than
one-half will be filled in 2003. The Company’s backlog for
the Aerospace Segment on December 30, 2001 was
$287 million.

As of December 29, 2002, the Company’s
backlog of firm orders for the Medical and Commercial segments
was $31 million and $187 million, respectively. This
compares with $33 million and $156 million,
respectively, as of December 30, 2001. Substantially all of
the December 29, 2002 backlog will be filled in 2003. Most
of the Company’s medical and commercial products are sold
on orders calling for delivery within no more than a few months
so that the backlog of such orders is not indicative of probable
net sales in any future 12-month period.

A portion of the Company’s sales,
particularly in the Commercial Segment are subject to seasonal
fluctuations. Revenue in the automotive market is generally
reduced in the third quarter of each year as a result of
preparations by vehicle manufacturers for the upcoming model
year. In addition, marine aftermarket sales generally increase
in the second quarter as boat owners prepare their watercraft
for the upcoming season.

EMPLOYEES

The Company had approximately
18,100 employees at December 29, 2002.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

The names and ages of all executive officers of
the Company as of March 1, 2003 and the positions and
offices with the Company held by each such officer are as
follows:

Mr. Lennox K. Black relinquished his
position of Chief Executive Officer on May 9, 2002 to
Jeffrey P. Black. Currently Lennox K. Black is Chairman of
the Board. Previously, Mr. Black replaced David S. Boyer as
Chief Executive Officer on January 31, 2000. Prior to that
date Mr. Black was Chairman of the Board. Mr. Boyer
resigned his position as President and Chief Executive Officer
on January 31, 2000. Mr. Jeffrey P. Black is the son
of Lennox K. Black.

Mr. Sickler was elected Vice Chairman on
December 8, 2000. Prior to that date he was a Senior Vice
President of the Company.



Mr. Jeffrey P. Black was named to the
Company’s Board of Directors on November 4, 2002. In
addition, Mr. Black was elected Chief Executive Officer on
May 9, 2002, assuming the Chief Executive Officer duties
from Mr. Lennox K. Black. Mr. Jeffrey P.
Black was elected President of the Company on December 8,
2000. Prior to that date he was President of Teleflex Fluid
Systems and Teleflex Industrial Group.

Mr. Zuber was named Executive Vice President
on April 27, 2001. Prior to that date he was a Vice
President of the Company.

Mr. Gordon was elected Vice
President — Corporate Development on December 8,
2000. Prior to that date he was Director of Business Development.

Mr. Jacobs was elected Treasurer on
April 27, 2001. Prior to that date he was Director,
Treasury Operations.

Mr. Gambone was elected Controller and Chief
Accounting Officer on April 24, 1998. Prior to that date he
was Manager, Internal Auditing and Reporting.

Ms. Schwartz was named Associate General
Counsel on March 1, 2002 and was elected Assistant
Secretary on April 27, 2001. Prior to that date she was
Assistant General Counsel.

Dr. Roy C. Carriker retired as Vice
Chairman of the Company on December 31, 2002.
Dr. Carriker was elected Vice Chairman on December 8,
2000. Prior to that date he was President and Chief Operating
Officer of TFX Aerospace.

Ms. Janine Dusossoit resigned her position
of Vice President — Investor Relations on
February 26, 2003.

Officers are elected by the Board of Directors
for one year terms.

Item
2.     Properties

The Company’s operations have approximately
160 owned and leased properties consisting of plants,
engineering and research centers, distribution warehouses and
other facilities. The properties are maintained in good
operating condition. All the plants are suitably equipped and
utilized and have space available for the activities currently
conducted therein and the increased volume expected in the
foreseeable future.

The following are the Company’s major
facilities:



(1)

The Company is the beneficial owner of these
    facilities under installment sale or similar financing
    agreements.

In addition to the above, the Company owns or
leases approximately 2,800,000 square feet of warehousing,
manufacturing and office space located in the United States,
Canada, Mexico, South America, Europe, Australia and Asia.

Item 3.     Legal
Proceedings

The Company is subject to numerous federal, state
and local environmental laws and regulations including the
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, the
Clean Air Act and the Clean Water Act. Environmental programs
are in place throughout the Company including training, auditing
and monitoring to ensure compliance with such laws and



regulations. The Company has been named as a
Potentially Responsible Party by the Environmental Protection
Agency at various sites throughout the country. Environmental
costs, including liabilities associated with such sites, and the
costs of complying with existing environmental regulations are
not expected to result in a liability material to the
Company’s consolidated financial position or results of
operations.

The Company is a party to lawsuits and claims
arising in the normal course of business. In the opinion of
management, there are no pending claims or litigation, the
outcome of which would have a material effect on the
Company’s consolidated financial position or results of
operations.

Item 4.     Submission
of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

Not applicable.

PART II

Item 5.     Market
for the Registrant’s Common Stock and Related Stockholder
Matters

See “Price Range And Dividends of Common
Stock” on page 34 of the Company’s 2002 Annual
Report to Shareholders for market price and dividend
information. Also see the Note entitled “Borrowings and
Leases” on page 22 of such Annual Report for certain
dividend restrictions under loan agreements, all of which
information is incorporated herein by reference. The Company had
approximately 1,100 direct-registered individual shareholders at
February 28, 2003. In addition, more than 250 mutual funds,
insurance companies, banks and other institutional investors own
the Company’s stock.

Item 6.     Selected
Financial Data

See pages 26 and 27 of the
Company’s 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders, which pages
are incorporated herein by reference.

Item 7.     Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations

See the text under the heading “2002
Financial Review” on pages 28 through 33 of the
Company’s 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders, which
information is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 7A.     Quantitative
and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

See the text section entitled “Liquidity,
Market Risk and Capital Resources” contained within the
“2002 Financial Review” on pages 28
through 33 of the Company’s 2002 Annual Report to
Shareholders, which information is incorporated herein by
reference.

Item 8.     Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data

See pages 17 through 25 of the
Company’s 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders, which pages
are incorporated herein by reference.

Item 9.     Changes
in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
Financial Disclosure

Not applicable.

PART III

Item 10.     Directors
and Executive Officers of the Registrant

For information with respect to the
Company’s Directors and Director nominees, see
“Election Of Directors”, “Nominees For The Board
of Directors” and “Additional Information About The
Board Of Directors” on pages 3 through 5 of the
Company’s Proxy Statement for its 2003 Annual Meeting,
which information is incorporated herein by reference.

For information with respect to the
Company’s Executive Officers, see Part I of this
report on pages 4 and 5, which information is
incorporated herein by reference.



Item 11.     Executive
Compensation

See “Additional Information About The Board
of Directors”, “Compensation Committee Report on
Executive Compensation”, “Five-Year Shareholder Return
Comparison” and “Executive Compensation and Other
Information” on pages 5 through 12 of the
Company’s Proxy Statement for its 2003 Annual Meeting,
which information is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 12.     Security
Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

See “Security Ownership of Certain
Beneficial Owners and Management” on page 13,
“Election Of Directors” and “Nominees For The
Board of Directors” on pages 3 and 4 of the
Company’s Proxy Statement for its 2003 Annual Meeting,
which information is incorporated herein by reference.

The following table sets forth certain
information as of December 29, 2002 regarding the
Company’s 1990 Stock Compensation Plan, 2000 Stock
Compensation Plan and Global Employee Stock Purchase Plan:

(1)

86,691 shares are available under purchase rights
    granted to non-United States employees of the Company under the
    Company’s Global Employee Stock Purchase Plan.

Item 13.     Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions

See “Additional Information About The Board
Of Directors”, “Compensation Committee Report on
Executive Compensation”, and “Executive Compensation
and Other Information” on pages 5 through 12 of
the Company’s Proxy Statement for its 2003 Annual Meeting,
which information is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 14.     Controls
and Procedures

As of a date within 90 days prior to the
date of the filing of this report, our Chief Executive Officer
and Chief Financial Officer have reviewed and evaluated the
effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures, which
included inquiries made to certain other of our employees. Based
on their evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer have each concluded that our disclosure
controls and procedures are effective and sufficient to ensure
that we record, process, summarize, and report information
required to be disclosed by us in our periodic reports filed
under the Securities Exchange Act within the time periods
specified by the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules
and forms. Subsequent to the date of their evaluation, there
have not been any significant changes in our internal controls
or in other factors that could significantly affect these
controls, including any corrective actions with regard to
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses.

PART IV

Item 15.     Exhibits,
Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on
Form 8-K

(a)

Consolidated Financial Statements:

The Index to Consolidated Financial Statements
and Schedules is set forth on page 13 hereof.

(b)

Reports on Form 8-K:

None.



(c)

Exhibits:

The Exhibits are listed in the Index to Exhibits.

For the purposes of complying with the amendments
to the rules governing Form S-8 (effective July 13,
1990) under the Securities Act of 1933, the undersigned
registrant hereby undertakes as follows, which undertaking shall
be incorporated by reference into registrant’s Registration
Statements on Form S-8, Nos. 2-98715 (filed
May 11, 1987), 33-34753 (filed May 10, 1990), 33-53385
(filed April 29, 1994), 333-77601 (filed May 3, 1999),
333-38224 (filed May 31, 2000), 333-41654 (filed
July 18, 2000), 333-59814 (filed April 30, 2001) and
333-101005 (filed November 5, 2002):

Insofar as indemnification for liabilities
arising under the Securities Act of 1933 may be permitted to
directors, officers and controlling persons of the registrant
pursuant to the foregoing provisions, or otherwise, the
registrant has been advised that, in the opinion of the
Securities and Exchange Commission, such indemnification is
against public policy as expressed in the Securities Act of 1933
and is, therefore, unenforceable. In the event that a claim for
indemnification against such liabilities (other than the payment
by the registrant of expenses incurred or paid by a director,
officer or controlling person of the registrant in the
successful defense of any action, suit or proceeding) is
asserted by such director, officer or controlling person in
connection with the securities being registered, the registrant
will, unless in the opinion of its counsel the matter has been
settled by controlling precedent, submit to a court of
appropriate jurisdiction the question whether such
indemnification by it is against public policy as expressed in
the Act and will be governed by the final adjudication of such
issue.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant
has duly caused this Annual Report to be signed on its behalf by
the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized as of the date
indicated below.

TELEFLEX INCORPORATED

By

/s/ JEFFREY P. BLACK

Jeffrey P. Black

(President & Chief Executive
    Officer)

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
capacities and as of the date indicated below.

By

/s/ HAROLD L. ZUBER, JR.

Harold L. Zuber, Jr.

(Executive Vice President & Chief
    Financial Officer)

By

/s/ STEPHEN J. GAMBONE

Stephen J. Gambone

(Controller & Chief Accounting
    Officer)

Pursuant to General Instruction D to
Form 10-K, this report has been signed by Steven K.
Chance as Attorney-in-Fact for a majority of the Board of
Directors as of the date indicated below.

By

/s/ STEVEN K. CHANCE

Steven K. Chance

Attorney-in-Fact

Dated: March 24, 2003



CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE
OFFICER

I, Jeffrey P. Black, Chief Executive Officer
and President of Teleflex Incorporated, certify that:

a) designed such disclosure controls and
    procedures to ensure that material information relating to the
    registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made
    known to us by others within those entities, particularly during
    the period in which this annual report is being prepared;

b) evaluated the effectiveness of the
    registrant’s disclosure controls and procedures as of a
    date within 90 days prior to the filing date of this annual
    report (the “Evaluation Date”); and

c) presented in this annual report our
    conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
    and procedures based on our evaluation as of the Evaluation Date;

5.     The
    registrant’s other certifying officers and I have
    disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation, to the
    registrant’s auditors and the audit committee of
    registrant’s board of directors (or persons performing the
    equivalent functions):

a) all significant deficiencies in the
    design or operation of internal controls which could adversely
    affect the registrant’s ability to record, process,
    summarize and report financial data and have identified for the
    registrant’s auditors any material weaknesses in internal
    controls; and

b) any fraud, whether or not material, that
    involves management or other employees who have a significant
    role in the registrant’s internal controls; and

6.     The
    registrant’s other certifying officers and I have indicated
    in this annual report whether there were significant changes in
    internal controls or in other factors that could significantly
    affect internal controls subsequent to the date of our most
    recent evaluation, including any corrective actions with regard
    to significant deficiencies and material weaknesses.

/s/ JEFFREY P. BLACK

Jeffrey P. Black

(Chief Executive Officer &
    President)

Date: March 24, 2003



CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL
OFFICER

I, Harold L. Zuber, Jr., Chief
Financial Officer and Executive Vice President of Teleflex
Incorporated, certify that:

a) designed such disclosure controls and
    procedures to ensure that material information relating to the
    registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made
    known to us by others within those entities, particularly during
    the period in which this annual report is being prepared;

b) evaluated the effectiveness of the
    registrant’s disclosure controls and procedures as of a
    date within 90 days prior to the filing date of this annual
    report (the “Evaluation Date”); and

c) presented in this annual report our
    conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
    and procedures based on our evaluation as of the Evaluation Date;

5.     The
    registrant’s other certifying officers and I have
    disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation, to the
    registrant’s auditors and the audit committee of
    registrant’s board of directors (or persons performing the
    equivalent functions):

a) all significant deficiencies in the
    design or operation of internal controls which could adversely
    affect the registrant’s ability to record, process,
    summarize and report financial data and have identified for the
    registrant’s auditors any material weaknesses in internal
    controls; and

b) any fraud, whether or not material, that
    involves management or other employees who have a significant
    role in the registrant’s internal controls; and

6.     The
    registrant’s other certifying officers and I have indicated
    in this annual report whether there were significant changes in
    internal controls or in other factors that could significantly
    affect internal controls subsequent to the date of our most
    recent evaluation, including any corrective actions with regard
    to significant deficiencies and material weaknesses.

/s/ HAROLD L. ZUBER, JR.

Harold L. Zuber, Jr.

(Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice
    President)

Date: March 24, 2003



TELEFLEX INCORPORATED

INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

The consolidated financial statements together
with the report thereon of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP dated
February 12, 2003 on pages 17 to 25 of the
accompanying 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders are incorporated
in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. With the exception of
the aforementioned information and those portions incorporated
by specific reference in this document, the 2002 Annual Report
to Shareholders is not to be deemed filed as part of this
report. The following Financial Statement Schedule together with
the report thereon of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP dated
February 12, 2003 on page 14 should be read in
conjunction with the consolidated financial statements in such
2002 Annual Report to Shareholders. Financial Statement
Schedules not included in this Form 10-K Annual Report have
been omitted because they are not applicable or the required
information is shown in the consolidated financial statements or
notes thereto.

FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE

Schedule:



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS ON

FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE

To the Board of Directors

of Teleflex
Incorporated

Our audits of the consolidated financial
statements referred to in our report dated February 12,
2003 appearing in the 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders of
Teleflex Incorporated (which report and consolidated financial
statements are incorporated by reference in this Annual Report
on Form 10-K) also included an audit of the financial
statement schedule listed in Item 15(a) of this
Form 10-K. In our opinion, the financial statement schedule
presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set
forth therein when read in conjunction with the related
consolidated financial statements.

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

February 12, 2003

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

We hereby consent to the incorporation by
reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-8
(File No. 2-98715, No. 33-34753,
No. 33-53385, No. 333-77601, No. 333-38224,
No. 333-41654, No. 333-59814, and No. 333-101005)
of Teleflex Incorporated of our report dated February 12,
2003 relating to the consolidated financial statements of
Teleflex Incorporated, which appears in the 2002 Annual Report
to Shareholders, which is incorporated in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K. We also consent to the incorporation by
reference of our report dated February 12, 2003 relating to
the financial statement schedule, which appears in this
Form 10-K.

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

March 21, 2003



TELEFLEX INCORPORATED

SCHEDULE II — VALUATION AND
QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

ALLOWANCE FOR DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS



INDEX TO EXHIBITS

March 24, 2003

EXHIBIT


(a)

-

The Company’s Articles of Incorporation (except for Article
Thirteenth and the first paragraph of Article Fourth) are
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3(a) to the
Company’s Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 1985. Article
Thirteenth of the Company’s Articles of Incorporation is
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3 of the Company’s
Form 10-Q for the period ended June 28, 1987. The first
paragraph of Article Fourth of the Company’s Articles of
Incorporation is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
3(a) of the Company’s Form 10-K for the year ended December 27,
1998.

(b)

-

The Company’s Bylaws are incorporated herein by reference to
Exhibit 3(b) of the Company’s Form 10-K for the year ended
December 28, 1987.


-

The Company’s Shareholders’ Rights Plan is incorporated herein
by reference to the Company’s Form 8-K dated December 7, 1998.


(a)

-

The 1990 Stock Compensation Plan, incorporated herein by
reference to the Company’s registration statement on Form S-8
(Registration No. 33-34753), revised and restated as of
December 1, 1997 incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) of
the Company’s Form 10-K for the year ended
December 28, 1997. As subsequently amended and restated on
Form S-8 (Registration No. 333-59814) which is herein
incorporated by reference.

(b)

-

The Salaried Employees’ Pension Plan, as amended and restated
in its entirety, effective July 1, 1989 and the retirement
income plan as amended and restated in its entirety effective
January 1, 1994 and related Trust Agreements, dated July 1,
1994 is incorporated by reference to the Company’s Form 10-K
for the year ended December 25, 1994.

(c)

-

Description of deferred compensation arrangement between the
Company and its Chairman, L. K. Black, is incorporated by reference to the
Company’s definitive Proxy Statement for the 2003 Annual
Meeting of Shareholders.

(d)

-

Teleflex Incorporated Deferred Compensation Plan effective as
of January 1, 1995, and amended and restated on Form S-8
(Registration No. 333-77601) is incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10(f) of the Company’s Form 10-K for the year ended
December 27, 1998.

(e)

-

Information on the Company’s Profit Participation Plan,
insurance arrangements with certain officers and deferred
compensation arrangements with certain officers, non-qualified
supplementary pension plan for salaried employees and
compensation arrangements with directors is incorporated by
reference to the Company’s definitive Proxy Statement for the
2001, 2002 and 2003 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.

(f)

-

The Company’s Voluntary Investment Plan is incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 28 of the Company’s registration statement
on Form S-8 (Registration No. 2-98715), as amended and revised
on Form S-8 (Registration No. 333-101005), filed November 5,
2002.

(g)

-

The 2000 Stock Compensation Plan, incorporated herein by
reference to the Company’s registration statement on Form S-8
(Registration No. 333-38224), filed on May 31, 2000.

(h)

-

The Company’s Global Employee Stock Purchase Plan, incorporated
herein by reference to the Company’s registration statement on
Form S-8 (Registration No. 333-41654) filed on July 18, 2000.


-

Pages 17 through 34 of the Company’s Annual Report to
Shareholders for the period ended December 29, 2002.


-

The Company’s Subsidiaries.


-

Consent of Independent Accountant (see page 14 herein).


-

Power of Attorney.