10-K


clorox_10k.htm

ANNUAL REPORT


UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C.

________________________________

FORM 10-K

________________________________

þ

Annual report
      pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of

for the fiscal year ended June 30,

OR

o

Transition
      report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of

for the transition period from ______ to ______.

Commission file number:
1-07151

THE CLOROX COMPANY

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Delaware

31-0595760

(State or other
      jurisdiction of

(I.R.S.
      Employer

incorporation or
      organization)

Identification
      Number)

1221 Broadway, Oakland, California
94612-1888

(Address of principal executive
offices) (ZIP code)

(510) 271-7000

(Registrant’s telephone number, including area code)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b)
of the Act:

Title of each
      class

Name of each
      exchange on which registered

Common Stock–$1.00 par
      value

New York Stock
      Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g)
of the Act:

None

(Title of class)

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a
well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. 
Yes

þ

.

No

o

.

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not
required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act.  Yes

o

.

No

þ

.


Indicate by check
mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file
such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days.  Yes

þ

.

No

o

.

Indicate by check mark whether the
registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if
any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to
Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12
months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit
and post such files).  Yes

o

.

No

o

.

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of
delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained
herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III
of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

þ

.

Indicate by check
mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer,
a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of
“large accelerated filer”, “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company”
in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large
accelerated filer

þ

Accelerated filer

o

Non-accelerated filer

o

Smaller reporting company

o

Indicate by check
mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Act).  Yes

o

.

No

þ

.

The aggregate
market value of the registrant’s common stock held by non-affiliates on December
31, 2008 (the last day of the most recently completed second quarter) was
approximately $7.7 billion.

As of July 31, 2009, there were
139,346,876 shares of the registrant’s common stock outstanding.

Documents Incorporated by Reference:

Portions of the registrant’s definitive
proxy statement for the 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the “Proxy
Statement”), to be filed within 120 days after June 30, 2009, are incorporated
by reference into Part III, Items 10 through 14 of this Annual Report on Form
10-K.


THE CLOROX COMPANY

ANNUAL REPORT
ON FORM 10-K

FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED
JUNE 30, 2009


Page

Part I

Item 1.

Business


Item
      1.A.

Risk
      Factors


Item 1.B.

Unresolved Staff Comments


Item
      2.

Properties


Item 3.

Legal Proceedings


Item
      4.

Submission of
      Matters to a Vote of Security Holders


Part II

Item 5.

Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters,
      and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities


Item
      6.

Selected
      Financial Data


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
      Results of Operations


Item 7.A.

Quantitative and
      Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk


Item 8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data


Item
      9.

Changes in and
      Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
      Disclosure


Item 9.A.

Controls and Procedures


Item 9.B.

Other
      Information


Part III

Item 10.

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance


Item
      11.

Executive
      Compensation


Item 12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
      Related Stockholder Matters


Item
      13.

Certain
      Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
      Independence


Item 14.

Principal Accounting Fees and Services


Part
      IV

Item
      15.

Exhibits and
      Financial Statement Schedules


Signatures



PART I

This Annual Report on Form 10-K (this
Report), including the exhibits hereto and the information incorporated by
reference herein, contains “forward looking statements” within the meaning of
Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and
Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange
Act), and such forward looking statements involve risks and uncertainties.
Except for historical information, matters discussed below, including statements
about future volume, sales, costs, cost savings, earnings, cash outflows, plans,
objectives, expectations, growth, or profitability, are forward looking
statements based on management’s estimates, assumptions and projections. Words
such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “targets,” “goals,” “projects,” “intends,”
“plans,” “believes,” “seeks,” “estimates,” and variations on such words, and
similar expressions, are intended to identify such forward looking statements.
These forward looking statements are only predictions, subject to risks and
uncertainties, and actual results could differ materially from those discussed
below. Important factors that could affect performance and cause results to
differ materially from management’s expectations are described in the sections
entitled “Risk Factors” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended June 30, 2009, as updated from time to time in the Company’s SEC
filings.

These factors include, but are not limited
to:

unfavorable
  general economic and marketplace conditions and events, including consumer
  confidence and consumer spending levels, the rate of economic growth, the rate
  of inflation, and the financial condition of our customers, suppliers and
  service providers;

foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate
  fluctuations;

unfavorable political conditions in international
  markets and risks relating to international operations;

the Company’s costs, including volatility and
  increases in commodity costs such as resin, diesel, chlor-alkali, agricultural
  commodities and other raw materials;

increases in
  energy costs;

the impact of the volatility of the debt markets
  on the Company’s cost of borrowing and access to funds, including commercial
  paper and its credit facility;

risks relating to changes in the Company’s capital
  structure;

risks arising from declines in cash flow, whether
  resulting from tax payments, debt payments, share repurchases, interest cost
  increases greater than management’s expectations, or increases in debt or
  changes in credit ratings, or otherwise;

changes in the Company’s tax rate;

the success of the Company’s strategies, including
  its previously announced Centennial Strategy;

risks relating to acquisitions, mergers and
  divestitures, including the Company’s ability to achieve the projected
  strategic and financial benefits from the Burt’s Bees acquisition;

the ability of the Company to implement and
  generate expected savings from its programs to reduce costs, including its
  supply chain restructuring and operating model changes;

the need for any unanticipated restructuring or
  asset-impairment charges;

the success of
  new products and the ability of the Company to develop products that delight
  the consumer;

consumer and
  customer reaction to price increases;

risks related
  to customer concentration;

customer-specific ordering patterns and trends;



competitive
  actions;

supply
  disruptions or any future supply constraints that may affect key commodities
  or product inputs;

risks inherent
  in supplier relationships, including sole-supplier relationships;

risks related
  to the handling and/or transportation of hazardous substances, including but
  not limited to chlorine;

risks related
  to the conversion of the Company’s information systems, including potential
  disruptions;

risks arising
  out of natural disasters;

the impact of
  disease outbreaks, epidemics or pandemics on the Company’s operations;

risks inherent
  in litigation;

risks inherent in maintaining an effective system
  of internal controls, including the potential impact of acquisitions or the
  use of third-party service providers;

the ability to manage and realize the benefit of
  joint ventures and other cooperative relationships, including the Company’s
  joint venture regarding the Company’s Glad

®

plastic bags, wraps and containers
  business, and the agreements relating to the provision of information
  technology and related services by third parties;

the ability of the Company to successfully manage
  tax, regulatory, product liability, intellectual property, environmental and
  other legal matters, including the risk resulting from joint and several
  liability for environmental contingencies; and

the Company’s ability to maintain its business
  reputation and the reputation of its brands.

The Company’s forward looking statements
in this Report are based on management’s current views and assumptions regarding
future events and speak only as of their dates. The Company undertakes no
obligation to publicly update or revise any forward looking statements, whether
as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required
by the federal securities laws.

In this Report, unless the context
requires otherwise, the terms “the Company” and “Clorox” refer to The Clorox
Company and its subsidiaries.

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Overview of Business

The Company is a leading manufacturer and
marketer of consumer products with fiscal year 2009 net sales of $5.5 billion.
The Company sells its products primarily through mass merchandisers, grocery
stores and other retail outlets. It markets some of consumers’ most trusted and
recognized brand names, including its namesake bleach and cleaning products,
Green Works™ natural cleaners and laundry products, Poett

®

and Mistolín

®

cleaning products,
Armor All

®

and STP

®

auto-care products, Fresh Step

®

and Scoop Away

®

cat litter,
Kingsford

®

charcoal, Hidden Valley

®

and K C
Masterpiece

®

dressings and sauces, Brita

®

water-filtration systems,
Glad

®

bags, wraps and containers, and Burt’s Bees

®

natural personal care
products. With approximately 8,300 employees worldwide, the Company manufactures
products in more than two dozen countries and markets them in more than 100
countries. The Company was founded in Oakland, Calif., in 1913 and is
incorporated in Delaware.

The Company has developed a strategy to
guide it through its 100-year anniversary in 2013. The Company’s Centennial
Strategy is focused on creating value by investing in new and existing
categories, sales channels and countries with profitable growth potential,
particularly those categories aligned with global consumer trends in the areas
of health and wellness, sustainability, affordability and a more multicultural
marketplace. It uses
economic profit to drive enhanced performance, portfolio choices and resource
allocation. Economic profit represents profit generated over and above the cost
of capital used by the business to generate that profit. For information on
recent business developments, refer to the information set forth under the
caption “Executive Overview - Fiscal Year 2009 Summary” in “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” on
pages 1 through 3 of Exhibit 99.1 hereto, incorporated herein by reference.



Financial Information About Operating
Segments and Principal Products

Beginning with fiscal year 2009, the
Company’s segment reporting has been modified and prior periods were updated to
conform to the current year’s presentation of segments. The Company operates
through strategic business units which are aggregated into four reportable
segments:

Cleaning, Lifestyle, Household and
International. The four reportable segments consist of the following:

Cleaning
  consists of laundry, home-care, professional products and auto-care products
  marketed and sold in the United States. Products within this segment include
  laundry additives, including bleaches, under the Clorox

®

and Clorox 2

®

brands;
  home-care products, primarily under the Clorox

®

, Formula 409

®

, Liquid-Plumr

®

, Pine-Sol

®

, S.O.S

®

and Tilex

®

brands; natural cleaning and
  laundry products under the Green Works™ brand; and auto-care products
  primarily under the Armor All

®

and STP

®

brands.

Lifestyle consists of food products and
  water-filtration systems and filters marketed and sold in the United States
  and all natural personal care products. Products within this segment include
  dressings and sauces, primarily under the Hidden Valley

®

and K C Masterpiece

®

brands; water-filtration systems and filters under the Brita

®

brand; and all
  natural personal care products under the Burt’s Bees

®

brand.

Household consists of charcoal, cat litter and
  plastic bags, wraps and container products marketed and sold in the United
  States. Products within this segment include plastic bags, wraps and
  containers, under the Glad

®

brand; cat litter products, under the Fresh Step

®

, Scoop Away

®

and Ever Clean

®

brands; and charcoal products under the
  Kingsford

®

and Match Light

®

brands

International consists of products sold outside
  the United States. These products include home-care, laundry, auto-care, water
  filtration, charcoal and cat litter products, dressings, plastic bags, wraps
  and containers, and insecticides, primarily under the Clorox

®

, Javex

®

, Glad

®

,
  PinoLuz

®

, Ayudin

®

, Limpido

®

, Clorinda

®

, Poett

®

, Mistolin

®

, Lestoil

®

, Bon
  Bril

®

, Nevex

®

, Brita

®

, Armor All

®

, STP

®

, Green Works

®

, Sabra

®

, Pine-Sol

®

and
  Agua Jane

®

, Ever Clean

®

, Chux

®

, Kingsford

®

, and Hidden Valley

®

brands.

The Company has three product lines that
have accounted for 10% or more of total consolidated net sales during each of
the past three fiscal years. In fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively,
sales of liquid bleach represented approximately 13%, 14% and 14% of the
Company’s total consolidated net sales. In fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively, sales of trash bags represented approximately 12%, 13% and 14% of
the Company’s total consolidated net sales. In fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007
sales of charcoal represented approximately 10% of the Company’s total
consolidated net sales.



Information for the last three fiscal
years about the results of each of the Company’s reportable segments and
identifiable assets as of the end of the last two fiscal years, reconciled to
the consolidated results, are set forth below. Historical segment financial
information presented herein has been revised to reflect the new reportable
segments.

Fiscal

Total

(

Millions

)

Year

Cleaning

Lifestyle

Household

International

Corporate

(1)

Company

Net sales


$

1,836

$


$

1,726

$

1,075

$

-

$

5,450


1,817


1,698

1,082

-

5,273


1,781


1,636


-

4,847

Earnings (losses) from

continuing operations
      before

income taxes






(298

)







(274

)







(230

)


Identifiable assets


1,043

1,316




4,576


1,026

1,313




4,712

____________________

(1)

Corporate
      includes certain nonallocated administrative costs, interest income,
      interest expense and certain other nonoperating income and expense.
      Corporate assets include cash and cash equivalents, the Company’s
      headquarters and research and development facilities, information systems
      hardware and software, pension balances, and other
  investments.

Principal Markets and Methods of
Distribution

Most of the Company’s products are
nationally advertised and sold within the United States to mass merchandisers,
warehouse clubs, and dollar, military and other types of retail stores primarily
through a direct sales force, and to grocery stores and grocery wholesalers
primarily through a combination of direct sales teams and a network of brokers.
Within the United States, the Company also sells institutional, janitorial,
healthcare and food-service versions of many of its products through
distributors, as well as natural personal care products through the internet.
Outside the United States, the Company sells products to the retail trade
through subsidiaries, licensees, distributors and joint-venture arrangements
with local partners.

Financial Information about Foreign and
Domestic Operations

For detailed financial information about
the Company’s foreign and domestic operations, including net sales and
long-lived assets by geographic area, see Note 22 –

Segment Reporting

of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page 60 of Exhibit 99.1
hereto.



Sources and Availability of Raw
Materials

The Company purchases raw material from
numerous unaffiliated domestic and international suppliers, some of which are
sole suppliers. Interruptions in the delivery of these materials or services
could adversely impact the Company. Key raw materials used by the Company
include resin, jet fuel, chlor-alkali, corrugate, agricultural commodities and
other raw materials. Sufficient raw materials were available during fiscal year
2009 and costs for materials continue to be volatile. The Company experienced
significant commodity cost pressures, particularly in the first half of fiscal
year 2009, and experienced some decline in commodity costs during the second
half of the fiscal year. The Company generally utilizes supply and
forward-purchase contracts to help ensure availability and help manage the
volatility of the pricing of raw materials needed in its operations. However,
the Company is nonetheless highly exposed to changes in the price of commodities
used as raw materials in the manufacturing of its products. For further
information regarding the impact of changes in commodity prices, see
“Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk” in “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” on
pages 16 through 17 of Exhibit 99.1 hereto and “Risk Factors – Price increases in raw
materials, energy, transportation and other necessary supplies or services could
harm the Company’s profits” in Item 1.A.

Patents and Trademarks

Most of the Company’s brand name consumer
products are protected by registered trademarks. Its brand names and trademarks
are highly important to its business, and the Company pursues a course of
vigorous action against apparent infringements. Maintenance of brand equity
value is critical to the Company’s success. The Company’s patent rights are also
material to its business and are asserted, where appropriate, against apparent
infringements.

Seasonality

Most sales of the Company’s charcoal
products occur in the first six months of each calendar year. A moderate
seasonality trend also occurs in the net sales of the Company’s Burt’s
Bees

®

natural personal care products, with slightly more than half of the annual net
sales occurring during the months of October through March. Operating cash flow
is used to build inventories of those products in the off-season.

Customers and Order Backlog

In each of fiscal years 2009, 2008 and
2007 net sales to the Company’s largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its
domestic and international affiliates, were 27%, 26% and 26%, respectively, of
the Company’s total consolidated net sales. Order backlog is not a significant
factor in the Company’s business.

Competition

The markets for consumer products are
highly competitive. Most of the Company’s products compete with other nationally
advertised brands within each category and with “private label” brands and
“generic” nonbranded products in certain categories. Competition is encountered
from similar and alternative products, some of which are produced and marketed
by major multinational or national companies having financial resources greater
than those of the Company. Depending on the product, the Company’s products
compete on product performance, brand recognition, price, value or other
benefits to consumers. A newly introduced consumer product (whether improved or
newly developed) usually encounters intense competition requiring substantial
expenditures for advertising, sales promotion and trade merchandising support.
If a product gains consumer acceptance, it normally requires continued
advertising and promotional support and ongoing product improvement to maintain
its relative market position.



Research and Development

The Company conducts research and
development primarily at its Technical Center in Pleasanton, Calif. and also
conducts research and development activities in Kennesaw, Ga.; Cincinnati, Oh;
Willowbrook, Ill.; and Buenos Aires, Argentina. The Company devotes significant
resources and attention to product development, process technology and consumer
insight research to develop consumer-preferred products with innovative and
distinctive features. The Company incurred expenses of $114 million, $111
million and $108 million in fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, on
direct research activities relating to the development of new products or the
maintenance and improvement of existing products. In addition, the Company also
obtains technologies for use in its products from third parties. Royalties
relating to such technologies are reflected in the Company’s cost of sales. For
further information regarding the Company’s research and development costs, see
“Research and development costs” in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations” on page 6 of Exhibit 99.1 hereto.

Environmental Matters

For information regarding noncapital
expenditures related to environmental matters, see the discussions below under
“Risk Factors – Environmental matters create potential liability risks” in Item
1.A. No material capital expenditures relating to environmental compliance are
presently anticipated.

Number of Persons Employed

At June 30, 2009, the Company employed
approximately 8,300 people.

Available Information

The Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K,
Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to
those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Exchange Act are available on the Company’s Internet Web site, free of charge,
as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are electronically filed
with or furnished to the SEC. These reports are available at
www.thecloroxcompany.com under Investors/Financial Information/SEC Filings.
Information relating to corporate governance at Clorox, including the Company’s
Code of Conduct, Board of Directors Governance Guidelines and Board Committee
charters, including charters for the Management Development and Compensation
Committee, the Audit Committee, the Finance Committee and the Nominating and
Governance Committee, is available at www.thecloroxcompany.com under Company
Information/Corporate Governance. The Company will provide any of the foregoing
information without charge upon written request to Corporate Communications, The
Clorox Company, 1221 Broadway, Oakland, CA 94612-1888. The information contained
on the Company’s Internet Web site is not included as a part of, or incorporated
by reference into, this Report.

ITEM 1.A. RISK FACTORS

The following risks and uncertainties, as
well as other factors described elsewhere in this Report or in other filings by
the Company with the SEC, could adversely affect the Company’s business,
financial condition and results of operations. Additional risks and
uncertainties that are not currently known to the Company or that are not
currently believed by the Company to be material may also harm the Company’s
business operations and financial results.

the impact of
  general economic conditions in the United States and in other countries in
  which the Company currently does business;

the impact of
  currency fluctuations;

significant
  increases in the costs of energy and transportation, including the cost of
  diesel, or of key raw materials, including but not limited to resin,
  chlor-alkali, corrugate, agricultural commodities and other raw materials;

the
  availability and cost of debt financing;

changes to
  cash flow resulting from the Company’s operating results, tax settlement
  payments, debt repayments and share repurchases;



fluctuations
  in federal, state, local and foreign taxes;

the ability of
  the Company to successfully execute its strategies, including its Centennial
  Strategy;

expenses for
  impairment and obsolescence of property, plant and equipment in excess of
  projections;

expenses for impairment of goodwill, trademarks
  and other intangible assets and equity investments in excess of projections;

the
  introduction of new products and line extensions by the Company or its
  competitors;

the impact of
  potential emerging technologies on the Company’s existing product lines,
  including any potential future obsolescence;

consumer and
  customer reaction to price increases;

changes in
  product pricing by the Company or its competitors;

the impact of
  customer inventory reductions or shelf simplification initiatives;

the mix of
  products sold within different channels and countries with varying
  profitability in a given quarter;

the ability of
  the Company to manage inventory at appropriate levels, including decisions
  regarding obsolescence;

the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel;

charges resulting from any restructuring that management
  may, from time to time, choose to undertake;

the impact of changing accounting principles and standards;

expenses for
  impairment of goodwill, trademarks and other intangible assets and equity
  investments in excess of projections;

the effectiveness of the Company’s advertising, marketing
  and promotional programs;

the Company’s ability to control internal costs and generate
  expected cost savings and efficiencies;

the ability of
  the Company to achieve its business plans, including volume growth and pricing
  plans, as a result of high levels of competitive activity;

the ability of
  the Company to penetrate and grow international markets;

the ability of the Company to maintain key retail customer
  relationships;

the impact of potential emerging technologies on the
  Company’s existing product lines, including any potential future obsolescence;

significant increases in interest rates, insurance costs, or
  in pension, healthcare or other employee benefit costs;

the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel;

the impact of
  changes in the market value of investments, including those investments held
  in the Company’s pension plan, and any resulting funding requirements;

the ability of
  the Company to successfully manage regulatory, tax and legal matters,
  including the resolution of pending matters within current
  estimates;

the impact of
  any litigation or product liability claims;

the impact of
  environmental remediation costs, including those for which the Company is
  jointly and severally liable;

the ability of
  the Company to maintain the value and reputation of its brands;

the ability of
  the Company to maintain key retail customer relationships;

the
  effectiveness of the Company’s advertising, marketing and promotional
  programs;

the ability of
  the Company to maintain and enhance profits in the face of a consolidating
  retail environment;

the ability of
  the Company to penetrate and grow international markets; and

the impact of
  foreign import and export restrictions or other trade regulations.

In addition, sales volume growth, whether
due to acquisitions or to internal growth, can burden management resources and
financial controls that, in turn, can have a negative impact on operating
results and net earnings. To some extent, the Company sets its expense levels in
anticipation of future revenues. If actual revenue falls short of these
expectations, operating results and net earnings are likely to be adversely
affected.



The Company faces intense competition
in its markets, which could lead to reduced profitability.

The Company faces intense competition from
consumer product companies both in the U.S. and in its international markets.
Most of the Company’s products compete with other widely-advertised brands
within each product category and with “private label” brands and “generic”
nonbranded products of grocery chains and wholesale cooperatives in certain
categories, which typically are sold at lower prices.

The Company’s products generally compete
on the basis of product performance, brand recognition, price, value or other
benefits to consumers. Advertising, promotion, merchandising and packaging also
have a significant impact on consumer purchasing decisions. A newly introduced
consumer product (whether improved or newly developed) usually encounters
intense competition requiring substantial expenditures for advertising, sales
promotion and trade merchandising. If a product gains consumer acceptance, it
normally requires continued advertising, promotional support and product
improvements to maintain its relative market position.

Some of the Company’s competitors are
larger and have financial resources greater than those of the Company. These
competitors may be able to spend more aggressively on advertising and
promotional activities, introduce competing products more quickly and respond
more effectively to changing business and economic conditions than the Company
can. In addition, the Company’s competitors may attempt to gain market share by
offering products at prices at or below those typically offered by the Company.
Competitive activity may require the Company to increase its spending on
advertising and promotions or reduce prices and could lead to reduced profits
and could adversely affect growth.

Unfavorable general economic conditions
and financial market volatility may negatively impact the Company’s financial
performance and liquidity.

Although the Company continues to devote
significant resources to support its brands, unfavorable economic conditions may
negatively affect consumer demand for the Company’s products. Consumers may
reduce discretionary spending due to economic uncertainty or unfavorable
economic conditions and this may lead to reduced sales volumes or cause a shift
in the Company’s product mix from higher margin to lower margin products.
Consumers may increase purchases of lower-priced or non-branded products and the
Company’s competitors may increase levels of promotional activity for
lower-priced products as they seek to maintain sales volumes during the
downturn.

In addition, global financial markets have
experienced unprecedented disruptions during fiscal year 2009 and continuing
volatility could harm the Company’s business. Although the Company currently
generates significant cash flows from ongoing operations and has access to
global credit markets through its financing activities and existing credit
facilities, if the current credit conditions were to worsen, the Company might
not be able to access credit markets on favorable terms, which could adversely
affect the Company’s ability to borrow. Financial market volatility and
unfavorable economic conditions may also adversely affect the financial
condition of our customers, suppliers and other business partners. In addition,
the decline in the equity markets and the valuation of other assets precipitated by
the credit crisis and financial system disruptions has affected the value of the
Company’s pension plan assets. The lower pension plan asset base has negatively
affected the return on plan assets, increased the Company’s pension expense and
required additional pension funding. If current market conditions worsen or
continue for a prolonged period of time, it could have an additional negative
impact on future pension expense and cash flow.



Sales growth may be difficult to
achieve.

A large percentage of the Company’s
revenues comes from mature markets that are subject to increased competition.
During fiscal year 2009, approximately 80% of the Company’s net sales were
generated in U.S. markets. U.S. markets for household products are considered
mature and are generally characterized by high household penetration. The
Company’s ability to achieve sales growth will depend on its ability to drive
growth through innovation, investment in its established brands and enhanced
merchandising and its ability to capture market share from competitors. In
addition, price increases may slow sales growth or create declines in sales in
the short term as consumers adjust to price increases. If the Company is unable
to increase market share in existing product lines, develop product
improvements, undertake sales, marketing and advertising initiatives that grow
its product categories, and develop, acquire or successfully launch new
products, it may not achieve its sales growth objectives.

Operations outside the United States
expose the Company to foreign exchange rate risk, uncertain conditions and other
risks in international markets.

The Company is exposed to foreign currency
exchange rate risk with respect to its sales, profits, assets and liabilities
denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Although the Company uses
instruments to hedge certain foreign currency risks, these hedges only offset a
small portion of the Company’s exposure to foreign currency fluctuations and its
reported earnings may be affected by changes in foreign exchange rates.
Moreover, any favorable impacts to profit margins or financial results from
fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates are likely to be unsustainable
over time.

In addition to foreign exchange rate
risks, the Company faces and will continue to face substantial risks associated
with having foreign operations, including:

economic or political instability in its
  international markets, particularly in Latin America;

difficulty in obtaining U.S. dollars to pay for
  the raw materials needed to manufacture the Company’s products, particularly
  in Venezuela;

restrictions on or costs relating to the
  repatriation of foreign profits to the United States, including possible taxes
  or withholding obligations on any repatriations; and

the imposition of tariffs, trade restrictions or
  other governmental actions.

These risks could have a significant
impact on the Company’s ability to sell its products on a competitive basis in
international markets and may have a material adverse effect on its results of
operations or financial position. The Company’s small sales volume in some
countries, relative to some multinational and local competitors, could
exacerbate such risks.

Also, the Company’s operations outside the
United States are subject to risks relating to compliance with legal and
regulatory requirements in local jurisdictions, potential difficulties in
staffing and managing local operations, potentially higher incidence of fraud or
corruption, credit risk of local customers and distributors, and potentially
adverse tax consequences.



The Company may not successfully
develop and introduce new products and line extensions.

The Company’s future performance and
growth depends on its ability to successfully develop and introduce new products
and line extensions. The Company cannot be certain that it will successfully
achieve those goals. The development and introduction of new products requires
substantial and effective research, development and marketing expenditures,
which the Company may be unable to recoup if the new products do not gain
widespread market acceptance. New product development and marketing efforts,
including entering markets or product categories in which the Company has
limited or no prior experience, have inherent risks. These risks include product
development or launch delays, which could result in the Company not being first
to market, the failure of new products and line extensions to achieve
anticipated levels of market acceptance, and the cost of failed product
introductions.

Dependence on key customers could
adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of
operations.

A limited number of customers account for
a large percentage of the Company’s net sales. The Company’s largest customer,
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its domestic and international affiliated companies,
accounted for approximately 27%, 26% and 26% of the Company’s net sales during
fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007. During fiscal years 2009, 2008, and 2007, the
Company’s five largest customers accounted for 43%, 42% and 42%, respectively,
of its total consolidated net sales. The Company expects that a significant
portion of its revenues will continue to be derived from a small number of
customers. As a result, changes in the strategies of the Company’s largest
customers, including shelf simplification or a reduction in the number of brands
they carry or a shift of shelf space to “private-label” or competitors’
products, may harm the Company’s sales.

In addition, the Company’s business is
based primarily upon individual sales orders, and the Company typically does not
enter into long-term contracts with its customers. Accordingly, these customers
could reduce their purchasing levels or cease buying products from the Company
at any time and for any reason. If the Company does not effectively respond to
the demands of its customers, they could decrease their purchases from the
Company, causing the Company’s sales and profits to decline. In recent years,
the Company has seen increasing retailer consolidation both in the U.S. and
internationally. This trend has resulted in the increased size and influence of
large consolidated retailers, who may demand lower pricing or special packaging,
or impose other requirements on product suppliers. These business demands may
relate to inventory practices, logistics, or other aspects of the
customer-supplier relationship. If the Company ceases doing business with a
significant customer or if sales of its products to a significant customer
materially decrease, the Company’s business, financial condition and results of
operations may be harmed.

The Company’s financial results could
suffer if the Company is unable to implement its strategies or if the Company’s
strategies do not achieve the intended effects.

There is no assurance that the Company
will be able to implement its strategies, including its Centennial Strategy, or
will achieve its intended growth targets. If the Company is unable to implement
its strategies in accordance with its expectations, the Company’s financial
results could be adversely affected. Moreover, the Company cannot be certain
that implementation of its strategies will necessarily advance the Company’s
business or financial results.

Profitability could suffer if the
Company is unable to generate anticipated savings and efficiencies, including
through its supply chain restructuring and operating model changes.

The Company’s success and profitability
depend on efficient manufacture and production of products. Beginning in fiscal
year 2008, the Company began a supply chain restructuring involving closing
certain domestic and international manufacturing facilities and redistributing
production between the remaining facilities and third-party producers to
optimize available capacity and reduce operating costs. Gaining additional
efficiencies may become increasingly difficult over time and any failure to
successfully execute such changes may result in supply chain interruption, which
may negatively impact product volume and margins. In addition, one of the
Company’s key strategies is to reduce waste, lower costs and increase
productivity. The Company sets aggressive annual cost savings targets in support
of this strategy. Failure to reduce costs through productivity gains and
operating model efficiencies could adversely affect profitability.



Price increases in raw materials,
energy, transportation and other necessary supplies or services could harm the
Company’s profits.

Increases in the cost of raw materials,
including resin, chlor-alkali, linerboard, soybean oil, solvent, natural oils,
corrugate and other chemicals and agricultural commodities, or increases in the
cost of energy, transportation and other necessary services, including the cost
of diesel, may harm the Company’s profits and operating results. If price
increases for any of the primary raw materials or other necessary supplies or
services occur and the Company is not able to increase the prices of its
products or achieve cost savings to offset such price increases, its profits and
operating results will be harmed. In addition, if the Company increases the
prices of its products in response to increases in the cost of commodities, and
the commodity costs decline, the Company may not be able to sustain its price
increases over time. Sustained price increases may lead to declines in volume,
and while the Company seeks to project tradeoffs between price increases and
volume, its projections may not accurately predict the volume impact of price
increases.

For further information regarding the
impact of changes in commodity prices, see “Quantitative and Qualitative
Disclosure about Market Risk” in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations” on pages 16 through 17 of Exhibit 99.1
hereto, incorporated herein by reference.

Reliance on a limited base of suppliers
may result in disruption to the Company’s business.

The Company relies on a limited number of
suppliers, including sole suppliers for certain of its raw materials, packaging,
product components, finished products and other necessary supplies. If the
Company is unable to maintain supplier arrangements and relationships, or if it
is unable to contract with suppliers at the quantity and quality levels needed
for its business, or if any of the Company’s key suppliers becomes insolvent or
experiences other financial distress, the Company could experience disruptions
in production and its financial results could be adversely affected.

Acquisitions and new venture
investments may not be successful.

In connection with the Company’s
Centennial Strategy, the Company may seek to increase growth through
acquisitions. Not only is the identification of good acquisition candidates
difficult and competitive, but these transactions also involve numerous risks,
including the ability to:

successfully integrate acquired companies,
  products or personnel into the Company’s existing business;

achieve expected synergies and obtain the desired
  financial or strategic benefits from acquisitions;

retain key relationships with employees,
  customers, partners and suppliers of acquired companies; and

maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures
  and policies throughout acquired companies.

Companies or operations acquired or joint
ventures created may not be profitable or may not achieve sales levels and
profitability that justify the investments made. Future acquisitions could also
result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of
debt, the assumption of contingent liabilities, the increase in amortization
expenses related to certain intangible assets and increased operating expenses,
which could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial
condition. Future acquisitions of foreign companies would increase the Company’s
exposure to foreign exchange risks. In addition, to the extent that the economic
benefits associated with any of the Company’s acquisitions diminish in the
future, the Company may be required to record additional write-downs of
goodwill, intangible assets or other assets associated with such acquisitions,
which could adversely affect its operating results.

In November 2007, the Company acquired
Burt’s Bees Inc., a leading manufacturer and marketer of natural personal care
products, for an aggregate purchase price of $913 million (excluding $25 million
of associated tax benefits). There is no assurance that the Company will be able
to achieve the sales and profit growth or increased distribution in the Burt’s
Bees business that management has projected.



Additional government regulations could
impose material costs.

Generally, the manufacture, packaging,
labeling, storage, distribution and advertising of the Company’s products and
the conduct of its business operations must all comply with extensive federal,
state and foreign laws and regulations. For example, in the United States, many
of the Company’s products are regulated by the Environmental Protection Agency,
the Food and Drug Administration and the Consumer Product Safety Commission and
the Company’s product claims and advertising are regulated by the Federal Trade
Commission. In addition, security at certain of our facilities is regulated by
the Department of Homeland Security. Most states have agencies that regulate in
parallel to these federal agencies. In addition, the Company’s international
operations are subject to regulation in each of the foreign jurisdictions in
which it manufactures or distributes its products. If the Company is found to be
out of compliance with applicable laws and regulations in these or other areas,
it could be subject to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls or
asset seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions, any of which could have
a material adverse effect on its business. Loss of or failure to obtain
necessary permits and registrations could delay or prevent the Company from
meeting current product demand, introducing new products, building new
facilities or acquiring new businesses and could adversely affect operating
results, particularly with respect to its charcoal business. It is possible that
the federal government will increase regulation of the transportation, storage
or use of certain chemicals to enhance homeland security or protect the
environment and that such regulation could negatively impact the Company’s
ability to obtain raw material or increase costs. In addition, pending
legislative initiatives, such as in the areas of healthcare reform, taxation of
foreign profits and corporate governance and executive compensation, could also
increase the Company's costs.

Product liability claims could
adversely affect the Company’s sales and operating results.

The Company may be required to pay for
losses or injuries purportedly caused by its products. Claims could be based on
allegations that, among other things, the Company’s products contain
contaminants or provide inadequate instructions regarding their use, or
inadequate warnings concerning interactions with other substances or damage
property. Product liability claims could result in negative publicity that could
harm the Company’s sales and operating results. In addition, if one of the
Company’s products is found to be defective, the Company could be required to
recall it, which could result in adverse publicity and significant expenses.
Although the Company maintains product liability insurance coverage, potential
product liability claims may exceed the amount of insurance coverage or certain
product liability claims may be excluded under the terms of the
policy.

Environmental matters create potential
liability risks.

The Company must comply with various
environmental laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which it operates,
including those relating to air emissions, water discharges, the handling and
disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and the remediation of contamination
associated with the use and disposal of hazardous substances. The Company is
currently involved in or has potential liability with respect to the remediation
of past contamination in the operation of some of its currently and formerly
owned and leased facilities. In addition, some of its present and former
facilities have been or had been in operation for many years and, over that
time, some of these facilities may have used substances or generated and
disposed of wastes that are or may be considered hazardous. It is possible that
those sites, as well as disposal sites owned by third parties to whom the
Company has sent waste, may in the future be identified and become the subject
of remediation. It is possible that the Company could become subject to
additional environmental liabilities in the future that could result in a
material adverse effect on its results of operations or financial condition.

At June 30, 2009, the Company had a
recorded liability of $19 million for its future remediation costs. One matter
in Dickinson County, Michigan, for which the Company is jointly and severally
liable, accounts for a substantial majority of the recorded liability. The
Company is subject to a cost-sharing arrangement with Ford Motor Co. (Ford) for
this matter, under which the Company has agreed to be liable for 24.3% of the
aggregate remediation and associated costs, other than legal fees, as it and
Ford are each responsible for their own such fees. If Ford is unable to pay its
share of the response and remediation obligations, the Company would likely be
responsible for such obligations. In October 2004, the Company and Ford agreed
to a consent judgment with the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality,
which sets forth certain remediation goals and monitoring activities. Based on
the current status of this matter, and with the assistance of environmental
consultants, the Company maintains an undiscounted liability representing its
best estimate of its share of costs associated with the capital expenditures,
maintenance and other costs to be incurred over an estimated 30-year remediation
period. The most significant components of the liability relate to the estimated
costs associated with the remediation of groundwater contamination and excess
levels of subterranean methane deposits. Currently, the Company cannot
accurately predict the timing of the payments that will likely be made under
this estimated obligation. In addition, the estimated loss exposure is sensitive
to a variety of uncertain factors, including the efficacy of remediation
efforts, changes in remediation requirements and the timing, varying costs and
alternative clean-up technologies that may become available in the future.
Although it is possible that the Company’s exposure may exceed the amount
recorded, any amount of such additional exposures, or range of exposures, is not
estimable at this time.



The Company also handles and/or transports
hazardous substances, including but not limited to chlorine, at its plant sites,
including the rail transit of liquid chlorine from its point of origin to the
Company’s manufacturing facilities. A release of such chemicals, whether in
transit or at our facilities, due to accident or an intentional act, could
result in substantial liability. The Company has incurred, and will continue to
incur, significant capital and operating expenditures and other costs in
complying with environmental laws and regulations and in providing physical
security for its worldwide operations, and such expenditures reduce the cash
flow available to the Company for other purposes.

Failure to maximize, successfully
assert or successfully defend the Company’s intellectual property rights could
impact its competitiveness.

The Company relies on intellectual
property rights based on trademark, trade secret, patent and copyright laws to
protect its brands, its products, and the packaging for those products. The
Company cannot be certain that these intellectual property rights will be
maximized or that they can be successfully asserted. There is a risk that the
Company will not be able to obtain and perfect its own intellectual property
rights or, where appropriate, license intellectual property rights necessary to
support new product introductions. The Company cannot be certain that these
rights, if obtained, will not later be invalidated, circumvented or challenged,
and the Company could incur significant costs in connection with legal actions
to assert its intellectual property rights, or to defend those rights from
assertions of invalidity. In addition, even if such rights are obtained in the
United States, the laws of some of the other countries in which the Company’s
products are or may be sold do not protect intellectual property rights to the
same extent as the laws of the United States. If other parties infringe the
Company’s intellectual property rights, they may dilute the value of the
Company’s brands in the marketplace, which could diminish the value that
consumers associate with the Company’s brands and harm its sales. The failure to
perfect or successfully assert its intellectual property rights could make the
Company less competitive and could have a material adverse effect on its
business, operating results and financial condition.

If the Company is found to have
infringed the intellectual property rights of others or cannot obtain necessary
intellectual property rights from others, its competitiveness could be
negatively impacted.

If the Company is found to have violated
the trademark, trade secret, copyright, patent or other intellectual property
rights of others, such a finding could result in the need to cease use of a
trademark, trade secret, copyrighted work or patented invention in the Company’s
business and the obligation to pay a substantial amount for past infringement.
In some instances, the Company may not be able to obtain the intellectual
property rights necessary to support new product introductions or on-going
sales. It could also be necessary to pay a substantial amount in the future for
rights if holders are willing to permit the Company to continue to use the
intellectual property rights. Either having to cease use or pay such amounts
could make the Company less competitive and could have a material adverse impact
on its business, operating results and financial condition.

The Company’s substantial indebtedness
could adversely affect its operations and financial results and prevent the
Company from fulfilling its obligations.

The Company has a significant amount of
indebtedness. As of June 30, 2009, the Company had $3.1 billion of debt. The
Company’s substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. For
example, it could:

make it more difficult for the Company to satisfy
  its cash obligations;

increase the Company’s vulnerability to general
  adverse economic and industry conditions;

limit the Company’s ability to fund potential
  acquisitions;

require the Company to dedicate a substantial
  portion of its cash flow from operations to payments on its indebtedness,
  which would reduce the availability of its cash flow to fund working capital
  requirements, capital expenditures, expansion efforts and other general
  corporate purposes;

limit the Company’s flexibility in planning for,
  or reacting to, changes in its business and the industry in which it

operates;



place the Company at a competitive disadvantage
  compared to its competitors that have less debt; and

limit, along with the financial and other
  restrictive covenants in the Company’s indebtedness, among other things, its
  ability to borrow additional funds. Failure to comply with these covenants
  could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could have a
  significant adverse effect on the Company.

The Company may not have sufficient
cash to service its indebtedness and pay cash dividends.

The Company’s ability to repay and
refinance its indebtedness and to fund capital expenditures depends on the
Company’s cash flow. In addition, the Company’s ability to pay cash dividends
depends on cash flow and net profits (as defined by Delaware law). The Company’s
cash flow and net profits are often subject to general economic, financial,
competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond the Company’s
control, and such factors may limit the Company’s ability to repay indebtedness
and pay cash dividends.

The Company may incur substantially
more debt, which could further exacerbate the risks described
above.

The Company may incur substantial
additional indebtedness in the future to fund acquisitions, to repurchase shares
or to fund other activities for general business purposes, subject to compliance
with the Company’s existing restrictive debt covenants. As of June 30, 2009, the
Company could add approximately $600 million in incremental debt and remain in
compliance with restrictive debt covenants. If new debt is added to the current
debt levels, the related risks that the Company now faces could intensify. In
addition, the cost of incurring additional debt could increase due to possible
additional downgrades in the Company’s credit rating.

The facilities of the Company and its
suppliers are subject to disruption by events beyond the Company’s
control.

Operations at the facilities of the
Company and its suppliers are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons,
including work stoppages, disease outbreaks or pandemics, acts of war,
terrorism, , fire, earthquakes, flooding or other natural disasters. In
addition, the Company’s corporate headquarters and Technical Center are located
near major earthquake fault lines in California. If a major disruption were to
occur, it could result in harm to people or the natural environment, temporary
loss of access to critical data, delays in shipments of products to customers or
suspension of operations.

The Company’s continued growth and
expansion and increasing reliance on third party service providers could
adversely affect its internal control over financial reporting, which could harm
its business and financial results.

Clorox management is responsible for
establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting.
Internal control over financial reporting is a process to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes
in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial
reporting is not intended to provide absolute assurance that a misstatement of
the Company’s financial statements would be prevented or detected. The Company’s
continuing growth and expansion in domestic and globally dispersed markets will
place significant additional pressure on the Company’s system of internal
control over financial reporting. Moreover, the Company increasingly engages the
services of third parties to assist with business operations and financial
reporting processes, which inserts additional monitoring obligations and risk
into the system of internal control. Any failure to maintain an effective system
of internal control over financial reporting could limit the Company’s ability
to report its financial results accurately and on a timely basis or to detect
and prevent fraud.

Harm to the Company’s reputation or the
reputation of one or more of its leading brands could have an adverse effect on
the business.

Maintaining a strong reputation with
consumers, customers and trade partners is critical to the success of the
Company’s business. The Company devotes significant time and resources to
programs designed to protect and preserve the Company’s reputation and the
reputation of its brands. These programs include ethics and compliance,
sustainability, and product safety and quality initiatives, among others.
Despite these efforts, adverse publicity about the Company, including product
safety or quality or similar concerns, whether real or perceived, could harm the
Company’s image and result in an adverse effect on its business, as well as
require resources to rebuild its reputation.



Resolutions of tax disputes may impact
the Company’s earnings and cash flow.

Significant judgment is required in
determining the Company’s effective tax rate and in evaluating its tax
positions. On July 1, 2007, the Company adopted FASB Interpretation No. (FIN)
48,

Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes
– an Interpretation of Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No.

. The Company provides for uncertain tax
positions when such tax positions do not meet the recognition thresholds or
measurement standards prescribed by FIN 48. Changes to uncertain tax positions,
including related interest and penalties, impact the Company’s effective tax
rate. When particular tax matters arise, a number of years may elapse before
such matters are audited and finally resolved. Favorable resolution of such
matters could be recognized as a reduction to the Company’s effective tax rate
in the year of resolution. Unfavorable resolution of any tax matter could
increase the effective tax rate. Any resolution of a tax issue may require the
use of cash in the year of resolution. For additional information, refer to the
information set forth in Note 20 -

Income
Taxes

of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements beginning on page 53 of Exhibit 99.1 hereto, incorporated herein by
reference.

ITEM 1.B. UNRESOLVED STAFF
COMMENTS

None.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

Production and Distribution Facilities

The Company owns or leases and operates 23
manufacturing facilities in North America and owns and operates 17 manufacturing
facilities outside North America. The Company also leases seven regional
distribution centers in North America and several other warehouse facilities.
Management believes the Company’s production and distribution facilities,
together with additional facilities owned or leased and operated by various
unaffiliated finished product suppliers and distribution center service
providers that serve the Company, are adequate to support the business
efficiently and that the Company’s properties and equipment have generally been
well maintained. The Company has announced a supply chain restructuring that it
expects to complete by fiscal year 2012, which involves closing certain domestic
and international manufacturing facilities. For additional information, see
“Restructuring and asset impairment costs” in “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” on pages 6 through 8
of Exhibit 99.1 hereto, incorporated herein by reference.

Offices and Research and Development
Facilities

The Company owns its general office
building located in Oakland, Calif., its Technical Center and Data Center
located in Pleasanton, Calif. and its research and development facility at its
plant in Buenos Aires, Argentina. The Company also leases certain research and
development centers and engineering research facilities in Willowbrook, Ill.,
and Kennesaw, Ga. Leased sales and other facilities are located at a number of
other locations.

Encumbrances

None of the Company’s owned facilities are
encumbered to secure debt owed by the Company.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

The Company is subject to various lawsuits
and claims relating to issues such as contract disputes, product liability,
patents and trademarks, advertising, employee and other matters. Although the
results of claims and litigation cannot be predicted with certainty, it is the
opinion of management that the ultimate disposition of these matters, to the
extent not previously provided for, will not have a material adverse effect,
individually or in the aggregate, on the Company’s consolidated financial
statements taken as a whole.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE
OF SECURITY HOLDERS

None.



EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE
REGISTRANT

The names, ages, year first elected an
executive officer and current titles of each of the executive officers of the
Company as of July 31, 2009, are set forth below:

Year
      First

Elected

Executive

Name

Age

Officer

Title

Donald R. Knauss



Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer

Lawrence S.
      Peiros



Executive Vice
      President and Chief Operating Officer – North America

Daniel J. Heinrich



Executive Vice President – Chief Financial Officer

Frank A.
      Tataseo



Executive Vice
      President – Strategy & Growth, Bags & Wraps and Away from
      Home

M. Beth Springer



Executive Vice President – International & Natural Personal
      Care

Jacqueline P.
      Kane



Senior Vice President –
      Human Resources & Corporate Affairs

Laura Stein



Senior
      Vice President – General Counsel

Thomas P.
      Britanik



Senior Vice President –
      Chief Marketing Officer

Wayne L. Delker



Senior
      Vice President – Chief Innovation Officer

Benno
      Dorer



Senior Vice President –
      General Manager, Cleaning Division

James Foster



Senior
      Vice President – Chief Product Supply Officer

Grant J.
      LaMontagne



Senior Vice President –
      Chief Customer Officer

George Roeth



Senior
      Vice President – General Manager, Specialty
Division

There is no family relationship between
any of the above-named persons, or between any of such persons and any of the
directors of the Company. See Item 10 of Part III of this Report for additional
information regarding the Company’s executive officers.

Donald R. Knauss was elected chairman and
chief executive officer of the Company in October 2006. He was executive vice
president of The Coca-Cola Company and president and chief operating officer for
Coca-Cola North America from February 2004 until August 2006. Previously, he was
president of the Retail Division of Coca-Cola North America from January 2003
through February 2004.

Lawrence S. Peiros was elected executive
vice president and chief operating officer – North America effective January
2007. From January 1999 through January 2007, he served as group vice president
– household.

Daniel J. Heinrich was elected executive
vice president – chief financial officer effective June 2009. From July 2004
until June 2009, he served as senior vice president – chief financial officer.
From October 2003 to June 2004, he served as vice president – chief financial
officer.

Frank A. Tataseo was elected executive
vice president – strategy & growth, bags & wraps and away from home
effective January 2009. From January 2007 to November 2008, he served as
executive vice president - functional operations. From July 2004 through January
2007, he served as group vice president – functional operations. He served as
senior vice president – sales from September 1999 through June 2004.

M. Beth Springer was elected executive
vice president - international and natural personal care effective January 2009.
She served as executive vice president – strategy & growth from January 2007
until January 2009. From January 2005 through January 2007, she served as group
vice president – specialty. She served as vice president, general manager of
Glad Products from October 2002 through December 2004.

Jacqueline P. Kane was elected senior vice
president – human resources & corporate affairs effective January 2005. She
joined the Company as vice president – human resources in March 2004 and was
elected senior vice president – human resources in July 2004. From September
2000 to February 2004, she was employed by Hewlett-Packard Company, most
recently as vice president of executive leadership and human resources for
corporate functions.

Laura Stein was elected senior vice
president – general counsel effective January 2005. She also served as secretary
from September 2005 through May 2007. From January 2000 through January 2005,
she was senior vice president – general counsel for H.J. Heinz Company.



Thomas P. Britanik was elected senior vice
president – chief marketing officer effective June 2009. He previously held the
position of vice president – marketing from February 2008 to May 2009. From July
2005 through January 2008, he served as vice president – general manager, U.S.
auto-care and Brita

®

. He held vice president positions in the customer
capability development and marketing, litter, food & charcoal business units
prior to July 2005.

Wayne Delker was elected senior vice
president – chief innovation officer effective June 2009. He joined the Company
in August 1999 as vice president – global research & development and served
in that position through May 2009.

Benno Dorer was elected senior vice
president – general manager, cleaning division effective June 2009. From October
2007 to May 2009, he held the title of vice president – general manager,
cleaning division. He previously held the position of vice president – general
manager, household division from March 2007 to October 2007. He joined the
Company in January 2005 as vice president – general manager, Glad

®

Products and
served in that position through March 2007. From January 2003 through January
2005, he was vice president – marketing, Glad

®

joint venture for Procter &
Gamble.

James Foster was elected senior vice
president – chief product supply officer effective June 2009. From April 2009 to
May 2009, he served as vice president – product supply. From October 2007
through April 2009, he served as vice president – manufacturing. He held the
position of vice president – product supply, specialty products groups from July
2004 through September 2007. From August 2002 through March 2004, he held the
position of director, manufacturing – charcoal and litter.

Grant J. LaMontagne was elected senior
vice president – chief customer officer effective June 2009. From July 2004 to
May 2009 he served as vice president – sales. He held the position of vice
president – specialty sales, from July 1994 to July 2004.

George Roeth was elected senior vice
president – general manager, specialty division effective June 2009. He held the
title of vice president – general manager, specialty division from February 2007
through May 2009. From April 2004 through February 2007, he served as vice
president – general manager, litter, food & charcoal. He served as vice
president – growth and marketing from July 2003 through April 2004.

PART II

ITEM 5.

MARKET
      FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS, AND ISSUER
      PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

Market Information

The Company’s common stock is listed on
the New York Stock Exchange. The high and low sales prices quoted for the New
York Stock Exchange-Composite Transactions Report for each quarterly period
during the past two fiscal years appear in Note 24

–

Unaudited Quarterly Data

of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, which appears on page 63 of Exhibit 99.1 hereto, incorporated herein
by reference.

Holders

The number of record holders of the
Company’s common stock as of July 31, 2009, was 12,627 based on information
provided by the Company’s transfer agent.

Dividends

The amount of quarterly dividends declared
with respect to the Company’s common stock during the past two fiscal years
appears in Note 24 –

Unaudited Quarterly Data

of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, which appears on page 63 of Exhibit 99.1 hereto, incorporated
herein by reference.

Equity Compensation Plan
Information

This information appears in Part III, Item
12 hereof.



Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

The following table sets out the purchases
of the Company’s securities by the Company and any affiliated purchasers within
the meaning of Rule 10b-18(a)(3) (17 CFR 240.10b-18(a)(3)) during the fourth
quarter of fiscal year 2009.

[d]

[c]

Maximum Number (or

Total Number
      of

Approximate Dollar

[a]

Shares (or
      Units)

Value) of Shares (or

Total Number
      of

[b]

Purchased as
      Part of

Units that May Yet Be

Shares (or
      Units)

Average Price Paid

Publicly
      Announced

Purchased Under the

Period

Purchased(1)

per Share (or Unit)

Plans or Programs

Plans or Programs(2)

April 1 to 30, 2009


$

55.18

—

$

750,000,000

May 1 to 31, 2009

1,788

$

51.40

—

$

750,000,000

June 1 to 30, 2009

3,790

$

56.39

—

$

750,000,000

____________________

(1)

The shares purchased in April,
      May and June 2009 relate entirely to the surrender to the Company of
      shares of common stock to satisfy tax withholding obligations in
      connection with the vesting of restricted stock and the exercise of stock
      options.

(2)

On May 13, 2008, the board of
      directors approved a new $750,000,000 share repurchase program, all of
      which remains available for repurchase as of June 30, 2009. On September
      1, 1999, the Company announced a share repurchase program to reduce or
      eliminate dilution upon the issuance of shares pursuant to the Company’s
      stock compensation plans. The program initiated in 1999 has no specified
      cap and therefore is not included in column [d] above. On November 15,
      2005, the Board of Directors authorized the extension of the 1999 program
      to reduce or eliminate dilution in connection with issuances of common
      stock pursuant to the Company’s 2005 Stock Incentive Plan. None of these
      programs has a specified termination date.

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL
DATA

This information appears under “Five-Year
Financial Summary,” on page 67 of Exhibit 99.1 hereto, incorporated herein by
reference.

ITEM 7.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
      RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

This information appears under
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations,” on pages 1 through 23 of Exhibit 99.1 hereto, incorporated herein
by reference.

ITEM 7.A.

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

This information appears under
“Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk” in “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” on
pages 16 through 17 of Exhibit 99.1 hereto, incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

These statements and data appear on pages
24 through 63 of Exhibit 99.1 hereto, incorporated herein by
reference.

ITEM 9.

CHANGES
      IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL
      DISCLOSURE

Not applicable.



ITEM 9.A. CONTROLS AND
PROCEDURES

Disclosure Controls and Procedures

The Company’s management, with the
participation of the Company’s chief executive officer and chief financial
officer, evaluated the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls and
procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based on that
evaluation, the chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded
that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the
period covered by this report, were effective such that the information required
to be disclosed by the Company in reports filed under the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 is (i) recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time
periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms and (ii) accumulated and
communicated to management, including the chief executive officer and chief
financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding
disclosure.

Changes in Internal Control Over
Financial Reporting

There was no change in the Company’s
internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the Company’s
fourth fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting.

Management’s Report on Internal Control
Over Financial Reporting

Management’s report on internal control
over financial reporting is set forth on page 64 of Exhibit 99.1 hereto, and is
incorporated herein by reference. The Company’s independent registered public
accounting firm, Ernst & Young, LLP, has audited the effectiveness of the
Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2009, and has
expressed an unqualified opinion in their report, which appears on page 65 of
Exhibit 99.1 hereto.

ITEM 9.B. OTHER
INFORMATION

Not applicable.

PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

Pursuant to Instruction 3 to Item 401(b)
of Regulation S-K, information regarding the executive officers of the
registrant is reported in Part I of this Report.

The Company has adopted a Code of Conduct
that applies to its principal executive officer, principal financial officer and
controller, among others. The Code of Conduct is located on the Company’s
Internet Web site at www.thecloroxcompany.com under Company
Information/Corporate Governance. The Company intends to satisfy the requirement
under Item 5.05 of Form 8-K regarding disclosure of amendments to, or waivers
from, provisions of its Code of Conduct by posting such information on the
Company’s Internet Web site. The Company’s Internet Web site also contains its
corporate governance guidelines and the charters of its principal board
committees.

Information regarding the Company’s
directors, compliance with Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act and corporate
governance set forth in the Proxy Statement are incorporated herein by
reference.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information regarding executive
compensation and the report of the Compensation Committee of the Company’s board
of directors set forth in the Proxy Statement are incorporated herein by
reference.



ITEM 12.

SECURITY
      OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED
      STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

The information regarding security
ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and equity compensation
plan information set forth in the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by
reference.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND
RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE

The information regarding certain
relationships and related transactions, director independence and securities
authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans, set forth in the Proxy
Statement, is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES

The information regarding principal
accountant fees and services set forth in the Proxy Statement is incorporated
herein by reference.

PART IV

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL
STATEMENT SCHEDULES







____________________

(+)

Confidential treatment
      has been granted for certain information contained in this document. Such
      information has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and
      Exchange Commission.

(*)

Indicates a management
      or director contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to be
      filed as an exhibit to this report.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused
this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized.

THE
      CLOROX COMPANY

Date: August 25,

By:

/s/ D. R. Knauss

D. R.
      Knauss

Chairman and
      Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the
dates indicated.





INDEX OF EXHIBITS

28