
10-K
FORM 10-K TEXT






       UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                   WASHINGTON, D.C.  20549

                        FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

[x]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE 

     SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended June 30, 1995



OR [ ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF 

       THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transmission period from        to       

                                 -----     -----



Commission file number 1-07151





                      THE CLOROX COMPANY

        (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)



        DELAWARE                                31-0595760   

(State or other jurisdiction of             (I.R.S. Employer

incorporation or organization)             Identification No.)



   1221 Broadway, Oakland, CA                   94612-1888

(Address of principal executive offices)        (Zip Code)



Registrant's telephone number,

including area code                           (510) 271-7000



Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:   



                                     Name of each exchange 

       Title of each class             on which registered    

- ------------------------------       ------------------------

Common Stock, $1 par value           New York Stock Exchange

                                     Pacific Stock Exchange



Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: NONE.



Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed 

all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of 

the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 

months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was 

required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to 

such filing requirements for the past 90 days. 



Yes  X        No     

    ---          ---



Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers 

pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained 

herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's 

knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements 

incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or 

any amendment to this Form 10-K.[  ]



Aggregate market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates 

of the registrant at July 31, 1995: $2,410,890,628.  

Number of shares of common stock outstanding at 

July 31, 1995:  52,437,995.



DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE



Portions of the registrant's Annual Report to Stockholders 

for the Year Ended June 30, 1995 are incorporated by reference 

into Parts I, II and IV of this Report.  Portions of the 

registrant's definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual 

Meeting of Stockholders to be held on November 15, 1995, 

which will be filed with the United States Securities and 

Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of the 

registrant's fiscal year ended June 30, 1995, are 

incorporated by reference into Part III of this Report.





PART I



ITEM l.  BUSINESS

- -----------------



(a)  GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS.



The Company (the term "Company" as used herein includes 

the registrant identified on the facing sheet, The Clorox 

Company, and its subsidiaries, unless the context indicates 

otherwise) was originally founded in Oakland, California 

in 1913 as the Electro-Alkaline Company.  It was 

reincorporated as Clorox Chemical Corporation in 1922, 

as Clorox Chemical Co. in 1928, and as The Clorox Company 

(an Ohio corporation) in 1957, when the business was 

acquired by The Procter & Gamble Company.  The Company 

was fully divested by The Procter & Gamble Company in 1969 

and, as an independent company, was reincorporated in 1973 

in California as The Clorox Company.  In 1986, the Company 

was reincorporated in Delaware.



The Clorox Company Annual Report for the Year Ended June 30, 

1995 ("Annual Report") to its stockholders is included in 

this Form l0-K.  Portions of the Annual Report are 

incorporated herein by specific reference.



During fiscal year 1995, the Company continued the 

implementation of a new strategy for its domestic business.  

The Company continued to focus on expanding the business 

through internal development of new products and line 

extensions of existing products.  The Company introduced 

16 new products in the U.S. during fiscal year 1995.  It 

also continued its strategy of considering strategic 

acquisitions and, in that regard, acquired "Black Flag" 

brand of aerosol insecticides in September 1995.  The 

Company also acquired Canada-based Brita International 

Holdings, Inc. as a geographic expansion of the Company's 

"Brita" brand water filtration systems.



Internationally, the Company continued the implementation 

of its strategy of expanding its laundry, household 

cleaning and insecticide businesses to markets where these 

categories are not yet fully developed, but where high 

potential exists.  The Company made eight international 

acquisitions in fiscal year 1995, increased its ownership 

in three additional businesses, and established 

businesses in eight new countries, including Brazil, 

Peru, the Czech Republic, the Slovak Republic and the 

People's Republic of China.  In addition, the Company 

introduced 22 new products or line extensions in previously 

established international operations.



(b)  FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT INDUSTRY SEGMENTS.



The Company's operations are predominantly in one segment -- 

non-durable household consumer products.  Such operations 

include the production and marketing of non-durable 

consumer products sold primarily through grocery and other 

retail stores. Financial information for the last three 

fiscal years attributable to the Company's operations is 

set forth in the Consolidated Financial Statements, pages 

20 through 29 of the Annual Report, incorporated herein 

by this reference.



(c)  NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS.



PRINCIPAL PRODUCTS.  Products currently marketed in the 

United States and certain foreign countries are listed on 

page 36 of the Annual Report, incorporated herein by 

this reference.



PRINCIPAL MARKETS - METHODS OF DISTRIBUTION.  Most non-

durable household consumer products are nationally advertised
and 

sold within the United States to grocery stores through a 

network of brokers that was reduced through consolidation 

during fiscal year 1995, and to mass merchandisers, warehouse 

clubs, military and other retail stores primarily through a 

direct sales force.  The Company also sells, within the 

United States, institutional versions of specialty food and 

non-food products.  Outside the United States, the Company 

sells consumer products through subsidiaries, licensees, 

distributors and joint venture arrangements with local 

partners.



SOURCES AND AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIALS.  The Company has 

obtained ample supplies of all required raw materials and 

packaging supplies, which, with a few exceptions, were 

available from a wide variety of sources during fiscal 

year 1995.  Contingency plans have been developed for 

single sourced supplier materials.  No supply problems 

are presently anticipated.



PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS.  Although some products are covered 

by patents, the Company does not believe that patents, 

patent licenses or similar arrangements are material to 

its business.  Most of the Company's brand name consumer 

products are protected by registered trademarks.  Its 

brand names and trademarks are extremely important to its 

business and the Company pursues a course of vigorous 

action against apparent infringements.



SEASONALITY.  The only portions of the operations of the 

Company which have any significant degree of seasonality 

are the marketing of charcoal briquets and insecticides.  

Most sales of these product lines occur in the third 

and fourth fiscal quarters.  Working capital to carry 

inventories built up in the off-season and to extend 

terms to customers is generally provided by internally 

generated funds plus commercial paper lines of credit.



CUSTOMERS AND ORDER BACKLOG.  During fiscal years 1994 and

 1995, revenue from the Company's sales of its products to 

Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its affiliated companies 

exceeded 10% of the Company's gross consolidated 

revenues.  Except for this relationship, the Company is 

not dependent upon any other single customer or a few 

customers.  Order backlog is not a significant factor in 

the Company's business.



RENEGOTIATION.  None of the Company's operations is 

subject to renegotiation or termination at the election 

of the Federal government.



COMPETITION.  The markets for consumer products are highly 

competitive and most of the Company's products compete with 

other nationally advertised brands within each category, 

and with "private label" brands and "generic" non-branded 

products of grocery chains and wholesale cooperatives.  

Competition is encountered from similar and alternative 

products, many of which are produced and marketed by 

major national concerns having financial resources greater 

than those of the Company.  Depending on the competitor, 

the Company's products compete with competitive products 

on price, quality or other benefits to consumers.



A newly introduced consumer product (whether improved or 

newly developed) usually encounters intense competition 

requiring substantial expenditures for advertising and 

sales promotion.  If a product gains consumer acceptance, 

it normally requires continuing advertising and promotional 

support to maintain relative market position.



RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT.  The Company's operations 

incurred expenses of approximately $44,819,000 in fiscal 

year 1995,  $44,558,000 in fiscal year 1994, and $42,445,000 

in fiscal year 1993 on research activities relating to the 

development of new products or the maintenance and 

improvement of existing products.  None of such research 

activity was customer sponsored.



ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS.  The Company does not anticipate 

making material capital expenditures in the future for 

environmental control facilities or to comply with 

environmental laws and regulations.  However, in general, 

the Company does anticipate spending increasing amounts 

annually for facility upgrades and for environmental 

programs.  The amount of capital expenditures for 

environmental compliance was not material in fiscal year 

1995 and is not expected to be material in the next 

fiscal year.



In addition, the Company is involved in certain other 

environmental matters, as follows: 



(i)  The Company sold its architectural coatings business in 

     fiscal year 1990.  In connection with the disposition 

     of those manufacturing facilities, the Company 

     retained responsibility for certain environmental 

     obligations.  The financial reserve established at the 

     time of the sale is expected to be adequate to cover 

     the financial responsibilities for environmental 

     matters which may arise in the future.



(ii) The Company has been named as a potentially responsible 

     party ("PRP") by the Environmental Protection Agency 

     pursuant to the Spill Compensation and Control Act, 

     the Sanitary Landfill Closure and Contingency Fund Act, 

     and a section of the Solid Waste Management Act, for a 

     site in New Jersey.  Based on the Company's experience 

     and because the Company's level of involvement is 

     extremely limited, the Company does not expect that this 

     matter will represent a material cost to the Company 

     in the future.  The Company settled a similar matter for 

     another site in New Jersey during fiscal year 1995 and 

     does not expect such settlement to represent a material 

     cost in the future.  



(iii)The Company sold its Jersey City, New Jersey manufacturing 

     facility during fiscal year 1994.  In connection with the 

     disposition of this manufacturing facility, the 

     Company retained responsibility for certain environmental 

     obligations.  The Company does not expect that the cost 

     of any future environmental liability in connection with 

     the sale of this facility will be material.



(iv) The Company operates a water treatment operation at its 

     former Oakland, California manufacturing location and 

     may undertake additional remediation in the future to 

     recondition such property for sale.   A financial reserve 

     established in an earlier year is considered by management 

     to be adequate to cover the future costs or liability in 

     connection with this manufacturing location.



(v)  During fiscal year 1995, the Company entered into a 

     "de minimis" settlement relating to its alleged involvement 

     at the American Chemical Services site in Griffith, 

     Indiana.  The Company does not expect the settlement 

     to represent a material cost in the future.



(vi) The Company has been identified as a PRP by the

     Environmental Protection Agency for a site in Johnson 

     County, Kansas.  The Company is continuing to negotiate 

     a settlement of this matter, which is not expected to 

     represent a material cost to the Company.



(vii)In fiscal year 1994, the Company incurred environmental 

     remediation costs at one of its facilities in Chicago, 

     Illinois, which were not material.  In fiscal year 1995, 

     the Company received partial reimbursement of these 

     costs from an adjacent property owner.



(viii)The Company has announced that it contemplates the 

     sale of its Frederick, Maryland manufacturing facility.

     Customary environmental investigations are being 

     conducted in conjunction with the contemplated sales 

     of these sites.  The Company does not expect that 

     material environmental liabilities will be 

     identified, and accordingly has not recorded 

     any loss contingencies.  During fiscal year 1995, 

     the Company sold its Dyersburg, Tennessee manufacturing 

     facility, but the Company does not expect any future 

     environmental liability in connection with such sale.  



(ix) The Company has been named in a private action by a 

     party seeking contribution by the Company for remediation 

     costs relating to a site that the Company may have 

     formerly been associated with in Dickinson County, 

     Michigan.  Although the parties are currently in the 

     discovery process and the basis for the Company's 

     potential liability has not yet been clearly 

     identified, the Company does not expect that this 

     matter will represent a material cost in the future.



(x)  A former subsidiary of the Company has been named as a 

     PRP by the Environmental Protection Agency for a site 

     in Tulalip, Washington in connection with the Company's 

     former architectural coatings business.  Pursuant to 

     the terms of the agreement by which the Company sold 

     such architectural coatings business, the Company has 

     been responding to this matter.  Based on the Company's 

     experience and because the Company's level of 

     involvement is extremely limited, the Company does 

     not expect that this matter will represent a material 

     cost to the Company in the future.



Although the potential cost to the Company related to the 

above ongoing environmental matters is uncertain due to 

such factors as: the unknown magnitude of possible 

pollution and clean-up costs; the complexity and evolving 

nature of governmental laws and regulations and their 

interpretations; and the timing, varying costs and 

effectiveness of alternative clean-up technologies; based 

on its experience and without offsetting for expected 

insurance recoveries or discounting for present value, 

the Company does not expect that such costs individually 

and in the aggregate will represent a material cost to the 

Company or affect its competitive position.



NUMBER OF PERSONS EMPLOYED.  At the end of fiscal year 1995, 

approximately 4,700 persons were employed by the Company's 

continuing operations.



(d)  FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC 

OPERATIONS AND EXPORT SALES.



Net sales, pretax earnings and identifiable assets related 

to foreign operations and export sales are each below 

l0% of the respective consolidated amounts for the Company 

for fiscal year 1995 and have been below these levels for 

the two preceding fiscal years, but may not be indicative 

of future levels due to the Company's strategy to expand 

its international operations.



ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

- -------------------



PRODUCTION FACILITIES.  The Company operates production 

and major warehouse facilities for its operations in 17 

locations throughout the United States, and in 21 locations 

internationally.  The vast majority of the space is owned.  

Some space, mainly for warehousing, is leased.  The 

facility in Dyersburg, Tennessee was sold during fiscal 

year 1995.  The Frederick, Maryland facility was closed in 

August 1994.  As part of the acquisition of S.O.S in fiscal 

year 1994, the Company acquired two facilities, one in 

the United States and the other in Canada.  The Canadian 

S.O.S facility was closed in fiscal year 1995.   

The Company acquired a production facility in Argentina 

in August 1995.  The Company considers its manufacturing 

and warehousing facilities to be adequate to support 

its business.



OFFICES AND TECHNICAL CENTER.  The Company's general 

office building is owned and is located in Oakland, 

California.  The Company also occupies leased office 

space in Oakland one block from its general office building.  

However, the lease will terminate and the Company plans 

to vacate such leased office space in Oakland during 

fiscal year 1996.  The Company's Technical Center and Data 

Center are owned and are located in Pleasanton, California.  

Leased sales and other office facilities are located at a 

number of manufacturing and other locations.



ENCUMBRANCES.  None of the Company's owned facilities are 

encumbered to secure debt owed by the Company, except that 

the manufacturing facilities in Wheeling, Illinois and 

Belle, Missouri secure industrial revenue bond indebtedness 

incurred in relation to the construction or upgrade thereof.



ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

- --------------------------



None.



ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

- ------------------------------------------------------------

None.





EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT







There is no family relationship between any of the above 

named persons, or between any of such persons and any of the 

directors of the Company or any persons nominated for 

election as a director of the Company.  See Item 10 of Part 

III of this Form 10-K.



The current term of office of each officer is from the date 

of the officer's election to the date of the first Board of 

Directors' meeting following the next Annual Meeting of 

Stockholders or until the officer's successor is elected, 

subject to the power of the Board of Directors to remove 

any officer at any time.  



W. F. Ausfahl, R. C. Klaus and D.C. Murray have been employed 

by the Company for at least the past five years in the same 

respective positions as listed above.  The other executive 

officers have held the respective positions described below 

for at least the past five years:



G. C. Sullivan joined the Company in 1971 in the sales 

department of Household Products.  Prior to his election as 

Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President 

in 1992, he was Group Vice President from 1989 through 1992 

and Vice President-Household Products from 1984 through 1989.



E. A. Cutter joined the Company in June 1983 as Vice 

President-General Counsel and Secretary.  He held this 

position through June 1, 1992, when he was elected Senior 

Vice President-General Counsel and Secretary, with 

additional responsibility for the Company's government 

affairs and community affairs functions.



N. P. DeFeo joined the Company in June 1993 as Group Vice 

President-U.S. Operations.  Previously, he had been with 

The Procter & Gamble Company for 25 years.  His last 

position there was as Vice President and Managing Director 

of Worldwide Strategic Planning, Laundry and Cleaning 

Products.



R. A. Llenado joined the Company in September 1991 as 

Group Vice President.  Prior to joining the Company, he 

was Vice President, Research and Development, L & F 

Products, Inc. (formerly Lehn & Fink Products Group, a 

subsidiary of Eastman Kodak Co.) from 1988 to 1991. 



P. N. Louras, Jr. joined the Company in April 1980 as 

Manager, Analysis and Control, Kingsford Products.  

Prior to his election as Group Vice President effective 

June 1, 1992, he was Vice President-International from 

August 1990 through May 1992, Vice President-Controller 

from July 1988 through August 1990 and Controller, 

Household Products from 1987 through July 1988.



A. W. Biebl joined the Company in 1981 as Manufacturing 

Manager, Food Service.  Prior to his election as Vice 

President-Manufacturing, Engineering and Distribution 

effective June 1, 1992, he was Vice President-Kingsford 

Products from 1989 through May 1992 and Vice 

President-Food Service Products from 1985 through 1989.



R. H. Bolte joined the Company in April 1982.  Prior to 

his election as Vice President-Corporate Marketing 

Services in July 1995, he was Director of Advertising 

and Promotion from June 1993 through June 1995 and 

Director of Media Services from May 1982 through May 1993.



J. M. Brady joined the Company in 1976 as a brand 

assistant in Marketing, Household Products.  From November 

1991 until her election as Vice President-Human Resources 

in September 1993, she was Vice President-Corporate 

Marketing Services.  She was director of Corporate 

Marketing Services from August 1991 through November 

1991, Director of Marketing, Kingsford Products from 

1989 through August 1991 and held various marketing 

positions for Household Products and Kingsford 

Products from 1987 through 1989.



J. O. Cole joined the Company in 1973 as an attorney in 

its Legal Services Department.  He has served in 

numerous capacities in that Department and was named 

Associate General Counsel in 1992.  In November 1992, 

he was elected to the position of Vice President-

Corporate Affairs.



R. T. Conti joined the Company in 1982 as Associate Region 

Sales Manager, Household Products.  Prior to his election 

as Vice President-International effective June 1, 1992, he 

was Area General Manager-International for Europe, Middle 

East and Africa from 1990 through May 1992 and Manager of 

Sales Planning for Household Products from 1987 through 1990.



C. M. Couric joined the Company in 1973 as a Brand Assistant 

in the Household Products marketing organization.  Prior to 

his election in July, 1995 as Vice President-Brita Products, 

he had served as Director, Brita Operations from 1988 through 

June 1995 and as a Manager of Business Development from 

1984 through 1988. 



G. E. Johnston joined the Company in July 1981 as Regional 

Sales Manager-Special Markets.  Prior to his election as 

Vice President-Kingsford Product Division effective 

November 17, 1993, he was Vice President-Corporate 

Development from June 1992 through November 16, 1993, and 

Director of Corporate Development from 1991 through May 

1992, and Director of Business Development from September 

1989 through 1991.



L. S. Peiros joined the Company in 1982 and was elected 

Vice President-Food Products Division effective July 1995.  

From September 1993 until his election to his current 

position he was Vice President-Corporate Marketing Services.  

From June 1992 through August 1993 he was Director of 

Marketing-Household Products and from August 1991 through 

June 1992 he was Director of Marketing-Kingsford Products.  

Prior to that he had served in various marketing positions 

in both Household Products and Kingsford Products.



K. M. Rose joined the Company in 1978 as a financial analyst.  

Prior to her election as Vice President-Treasurer effective 

July 15, 1992, she was Controller, Household Products from 

July 1988 through July 1992.  Beginning October 1, 1994, she 

also assumed responsibility for the Company's investor 

relations and risk management functions.



H. J. Salvo, Jr. joined the Company in 1972 as a staff 

accountant.  Prior to his election as Vice President-Controller 

in November 1990, he was Director of Business Development 

from October 1989 through September 1990 and had served as 

Controller for three of the Company's operating units from 

1983 through September 1989.



B. A. Sudbury joined the Company in 1978 as Project Leader 

in Research and Development.  Prior to his election as Vice 

President-Research and Development effective June 1, 1992, 

he was Director of Research and Development, Household 

Products from 1985 through May 1992.



F. A. Tataseo joined the Company in October 1994 as Vice 

President-Sales.  Previously, he was employed by The 

Pillsbury Company (Division of Grand Metropolitan Inc.) 

as Vice President, Sales (March - September 1994), and 

as Vice President, Direct Sales Force (June 1993 - 

February 1994); and by The Procter & Gamble Company as 

Sales Merchandising Division Manager, Soap Sector 

(May 1992 - May 1993); as Division Sales Manager, Laundry 

Products Category (November 1990 - April 1993); and as 

Division Sales Manager, Fabric Care Category (July 1988 - 

October 1990).



C. E. Williams joined the Company in May 1993 as Vice 

President-Information Services.  From 1987 until he joined 

the Company, Mr. Williams was Director of Information 

Services of the Fritz Companies, Inc.



PART II



ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED

- ----------------------------------------------------------

STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

- -------------------



(a)  MARKET INFORMATION.



The principal markets for Clorox Common Stock are the New 

York and Pacific Stock Exchanges.  The high and low sales 

prices quoted for New York Stock Exchange-Composite 

Transactions Report for each quarterly period during the 

past two fiscal years appears under "Quarterly Data," page 

32 of the Annual Report, incorporated herein by this 

reference, and on July 31, 1995, the closing price for 

the Company's stock was $65.625 per share.







(b)  HOLDERS.



The approximate number of record holders of Clorox Common 

Stock as of July 31, 1995 was 13,056 based on information 

provided by the Company's transfer agent.



(c)  DIVIDENDS.



The amount of quarterly dividends paid with respect to Clorox 

Common Stock during the past two fiscal years appears under 

"Quarterly Data," page 32 of the Annual Report, incorporated 

herein by this reference.



ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

- --------------------------------



This information appears under "Financial Summary," pages 30 

and 31 of the Annual Report, incorporated herein by this 

reference.



ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL 

- ----------------------------------------------------------

CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION

- ----------------------------------



This information appears under "Management's Discussion and
Analysis," pages 18 and 19 of the Annual Report, incorporated
herein by this reference.



ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

- ----------------------------------------------------



These statements and data appear on pages 20 through 28 and 32
of the Annual Report, incorporated herein by this reference.



ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON 

- ---------------------------------------------------------

ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

- -----------------------------------



None.













PART III



ITEM l0.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE 

- -------------------------------------------------

REGISTRANT

- ----------



Information regarding each nominee for election as a 

director, including those who are executive officers of 

the Company, appears under "Nominees for Election as 

Directors" of the definitive Proxy Statement of the 

Company, which will be filed with the United States 

Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after 

the end of the registrant's fiscal year ended June 30, 

1995 ("Proxy Statement"), incorporated herein by this 

reference.



Pursuant to Instruction 3 to Item 401(b) of Regulation S-K, 

information regarding the executive officers of the 

registrant is reported in Part I of this Report.



The information required by Item 405 of Regulation S-K 

appears under "Compliance with Section 16(a) of the Exchange 

Act" of the Proxy Statement, incorporated herein by this 

reference.





ITEM ll.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

- --------------------------------



The information required by Item 402 of Regulation S-K 

appears under "Organization of the Board of Directors," 

"Employee Benefits and Management Compensation Committee 

Report on Compensation," "Summary Compensation Table," 

"Options and Stock Appreciation Rights," "Comparative 

Stock Performance," "Pension Plan," and "Supplemental 

Executive Retirement Plan" of the Proxy Statement, all 

incorporated herein by this reference.





ITEM l2.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS 

- ---------------------------------------------------------

AND MANAGEMENT

- --------------



(a)  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS.



Information concerning the only entity or person known 

to the Company to be the beneficial owner of more than 

5% of its Common Stock appears under "Beneficial 

Ownership of Voting Securities" of the Proxy Statement, 

incorporated herein by this reference.



(b)  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF MANAGEMENT.



Information concerning the beneficial ownership of the 

Company's Common Stock by each nominee for election as 

a director appears under "Nominees for Election as 

Directors" of the Proxy Statement and by all directors 

and executive officers as a group appears under 

"Beneficial Ownership of Voting Securities" of the 

Proxy Statement, both incorporated herein by this 

reference.





ITEM l3.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

- --------------------------------------------------------



Information concerning transactions with directors, nominees 

for election as directors, management and the beneficial 

owner of more than 5% of the Company's Common Stock 

appears under "Beneficial Ownership of Voting Securities" 

of the Proxy Statement, incorporated herein by this 

reference. 

























PART IV







SIGNATURES



Pursuant to the requirements of Section l3 or l5(d) of the 

Securities Exchange Act of l934, the registrant has duly 

caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the 

undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.



                                        THE CLOROX COMPANY   

Date:  September 20, 1995               By: /s/G. C. Sullivan

                                            -----------------

                                            G. C. Sullivan, 

                                            Chairman of the 

                                            Board and Chief 

                                            Executive Officer 













APPENDIX

(to Form 10-K)

 The following items have been filed under cover of Form SE:



1.  Middle of Page 18 - Bar Chart entitled "Clorox Value
Measure",

    showing the economic value measurement of the Company over

    the period of the last five fiscal years.



2.  Middle of Page 19 - Bar Chart entitled "Cash Provided, 

    Continuing Operations."

 



