
10-K
FORM 10-K TEXT




          UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                 WASHINGTON, D.C.  20549

                      FORM 10-K

                     (Mark One)

[x]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES

EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended June 30, 1999



OR  [ ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF

THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transmission period from             to

                                 ----------     ----------



           Commission file number 1-07151



                  THE CLOROX COMPANY

  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)



  DELAWARE                                      31-0595760

State or other jurisdiction of                (I.R.S. Employer

incorporation or organization)               Identification No.)



  1221 Broadway, Oakland, CA                    94612-1888

(Address of principal executive offices)        (Zip Code)



Registrant's telephone number,

 including area code:                          (510) 271-7000



Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:



                                           Name of each exchange

    Title of each class                      on which registered


- ---------------------------            --------------------------

 Common Stock, $1 par value                New York Stock
Exchange

                                          Pacific  Exchange



Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
NONE.



Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all

reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the

Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months

(or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to

file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing

requirements for the past 90 days.



Yes  X        No



Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers

pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein,

and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's
knowledge,

in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated

by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment

to this Form 10-K.[  ]



Aggregate market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates

of the registrant at July 31, 1999: $9,579,246,992.  Number of

shares of common stock outstanding at July 31, 1999: 237,180,102

(after giving effect to the 2-for-1 stock split effected in the

form of a dividend payable on August 23, 1999).



DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE



Portions of the registrant's 1999 Annual Report are incorporated

by reference into Part I of this report.  Portions of the

registrant's definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting
of

Stockholders to be held on November 17, 1999, which will be
filed

with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission within

120 days after the end of the registrant's fiscal year ended
June 30,

1999, are incorporated by reference into Parts I, II, III and IV
of

this report.



PART I



ITEM l.  BUSINESS



(a)  GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS.



The Company (the term "Company" as used herein includes the

registrant identified on the facing sheet, The Clorox Company,

and its subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise)

was originally founded in Oakland, California in 1913 as the

Electro-Alkaline Company.  It was reincorporated as Clorox

Chemical Corporation in 1922, as Clorox Chemical Co. in 1928,

and as The Clorox Company (an Ohio corporation) in 1957, when

the business was acquired by The Procter & Gamble Company.

The Company was fully divested by The Procter & Gamble Company

in 1969 and, as an independent company, was reincorporated in

1973 in California as The Clorox Company.  In 1986, the Company

was reincorporated in Delaware.



During fiscal year 1999, the Company continued its strategy of

considering strategic acquisitions or mergers and, in that
regard,

merged with First Brands Corporation ("First Brands") on

January 29, 1999.  Following the merger, the Company focused

on the integration of the First Brands businesses, including

Glad plastic wrap, food storage bags and containers, and trash

bags; STP automotive additives; and Jonny Cat and Scoop Away

cat litter products.  Prior to the merger with the Company,
First

Brands acquired the Handi Wipes reusable cleaning cloth and

Wash 'n Dri premoistened towelettes businesses during fiscal

year 1999.  The Company also continued to expand its domestic

business, through internal development of new products and line

extensions of existing products.



The Company introduced 25 new products in the United States

during fiscal year 1999, including Clorox Advantage liquid
bleach,

Clorox FreshCare fabric refresher, Fresh Mist Tilex Fresh

Shower daily shower cleaner, Brita faucet-mounted water filters,

and others.



Internationally, the Company continued implementing its strategy

to expand its laundry, household cleaning and insecticide

businesses in markets where these categories are not yet fully

developed, but where it believes high potential exists.  The

Company made three international acquisitions in fiscal year
1999,

consisting of the Homekeeper insecticide business in the
Republic

of Korea, the Gumption household cleaning business in Australia,

and the Mistolin line of cleaners in Venezuela.  The Company
also

increased its equity ownership in its Colombian joint venture

company, Tecnoclor S.A., by 12%.  The First Brands merger
increased

the Company's international businesses, especially in Canada,

Australia and New Zealand.  In addition, the Company introduced

60 new products or line extensions in previously established

international operations, including the launch of Clorox liquid

bleach in Brazil.



For other recent business developments, refer to the information

set forth under the caption "Management's Discussion and
Analysis,"

on  pages B-1 through B-7 of Appendix B of the Company's

definitive Proxy Statement for the 1999 Annual Meeting of

Stockholders of the Company, which will be filed with the United

States Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after

the end of the registrant's fiscal year ended June 30, 1999

("Proxy Statement"), incorporated herein by reference.



(b)  FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT INDUSTRY SEGMENTS.



The Company has four business segments: U.S. Home Care and

Cleaning, U.S. Specialty Products, U.S. Food, Food Preparation

and Storage, and International.  Financial information for the

last three fiscal years, including net sales, earnings before

taxes, and identifiable assets, attributable to each of the

Company's industry segments is set forth in Note 19 - Segment

Information of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements,

which appears on pages B-28 and B-29 of Appendix B of the Proxy

Statement, incorporated herein by reference.



All share numbers and stock prices in this Form 10-K give effect

to the 2-for-1 stock split declared July 20, 1999, effected in

the form of a stock dividend paid August 23, 1999 on all shares

of common stock outstanding as of the close of business on July
30,

1999.  All financial information included herein has been
restated

to give effect to the First Brands merger accounted for as a

pooling of interests.



(c)  NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS.



The Company's business operations, represented by the aggregate

of its U.S. Home Care and Cleaning, U.S. Specialty Products,
U.S.

Food, Food Preparation and Storage, and International segments,

include the production and marketing of non-durable consumer

products sold primarily through grocery and other retail stores.

For the most part, the factors necessary for an understanding of

these four segments are essentially the same.



PRINCIPAL PRODUCTS.  The U.S. Home Care and Cleaning segment

includes the Company's household cleaning, bleach and other

home care products, as well as the Company's professional

products business.  The U.S. Specialty Products segment

includes the Company's charcoal, automotive care, cat litter,

insecticide and firelog categories.  The U.S. Food, Food

Preparation and Storage segment includes the Company's
dressings,

sauces, Brita, Glad, and GladWare businesses.  Finally, the

International segment, which includes the Company's overseas

operations, exports and Puerto Rico, primarily focuses on the

laundry, household cleaning and insecticide categories.

Principal products, by segment, currently marketed in the

United States and internationally are listed on pages 34 and 35

of the Company's 1999 Annual Report ("Annual Report"),
incorporated

herein by reference.  Each of the Company's segments accounted

for more than 10 percent of the Company's consolidated revenues

during the last three fiscal years, as shown in Note 19 Segment

Information of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements,

which appears on pages B-28 and B-29 of Appendix B of the Proxy

Statement, incorporated herein by reference.



PRINCIPAL MARKETS - METHODS OF DISTRIBUTION.  Most non-durable

household consumer products are nationally advertised and sold

within the United States to grocery stores through a network of

brokers, and to mass merchandisers, warehouse clubs, military

and other retail stores primarily through a direct sales force.

The Company also sells within the United States institutional

versions of specialty food and non-food products.  Outside the

United States, the Company sells consumer products through

subsidiaries, licensees, distributors and joint-venture
arrangements

with local partners.



SOURCES AND AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIALS.  The Company has
obtained

ample supplies of all required raw materials and packaging
supplies

which, with a few exceptions, were available from a wide variety

of sources during fiscal year 1999.  Polyethylene resin raw
materials,

which are particularly important for the U.S. Food, Food
Preparation

and Storage Products segment, were available from a wide variety

of sources during fiscal year 1999 and the Company has entered

into financial instruments with various maturities partially to

stabilize the cost of its polyethylene resin requirements.

Contingency plans have been developed for any single-sourced

supplier materials.



PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS.  Although some products are covered by

patents, the Company does not believe that patents, patent

licenses or similar arrangements are material to its business.

Most of the Company's brand name consumer products are protected

by registered trademarks.  Its brand names and trademarks are

extremely important to its business and the Company pursues

a course of vigorous action against apparent infringements.



SEASONALITY.  The U.S. Specialty Products segment is the only

portion of the operations of the Company that has any
significant

degree of seasonality.  Most sales of the Company's charcoal

briquets, insecticides, and automotive appearance product lines

occur in the first six months of each calendar year.  Working

capital to carry inventories built up in the off-season and to

extend terms to customers is generally provided by internally

generated funds plus commercial paper lines of credit.



CUSTOMERS AND ORDER BACKLOG.  During fiscal years 1999, 1998 and

1997, revenues from the Company's sales of its products to
Wal-Mart

Stores, Inc. and its affiliated companies were 18%, 15%, and
14%,

respectively, of the Company's consolidated net sales.  Except
for

this relationship, the Company is not dependent upon any other

single customer or a small group of customers.  Order backlog is

not a significant factor in the Company's business.



RENEGOTIATION.  None of the Company's operations is subject to

renegotiation or termination at the election of the Federal
government.



COMPETITION.  The markets for consumer products are highly

competitive and most of the Company's products compete with
other

nationally advertised brands within each category, and with

"private label" brands and "generic" non-branded products of

grocery chains and wholesale cooperatives.  Competition is

encountered from similar and alternative products, many of which

are produced and marketed by major national concerns having

financial resources greater than those of the Company.
Depending

on the competitive product, the Company's products compete on

price, quality or other benefits to consumers.



A newly introduced consumer product (whether improved or newly

developed) usually encounters intense competition requiring

substantial expenditures for advertising and sales promotion.

If a product gains consumer acceptance, it normally requires

continuing advertising and promotional support to maintain its

relative market position.



RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT.  The Company incurred expenses of

approximately $62 million, $61 million and $56 million in fiscal

years 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively, on research activities

relating to the development of new products or the maintenance

and improvement of existing products.  None of such research

activity was customer-sponsored.



ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS.  Historically, the Company has not made

material capital expenditures for environmental control
facilities

or to comply with environmental laws and regulations. However,
in

general, the Company does anticipate spending increasing amounts

annually for facility upgrades and for environmental programs.

The amount of capital expenditures for environmental compliance

was not material in fiscal year 1999 and is not expected to be

material in the next fiscal year.



The Company is involved in certain other environmental matters,

including Superfund clean-up efforts at various locations.  The

potential cost to the Company related to ongoing environmental

matters is uncertain due to such factors as: the unknown
magnitude

of possible pollution and clean-up costs; the complexity and

evolving nature of laws and regulations and their
interpretations;

and the timing, varying costs and effectiveness of alternative

clean-up technologies.  Based on its experience and without

offsetting for expected insurance recoveries or discounting for

present value, the Company does not expect that such costs

individually and in the aggregate will represent a material cost

to the Company or affect its competitive position.



NUMBER OF PERSONS EMPLOYED.  At the end of fiscal year 1999,

approximately 11,000 people were employed by the Company.



FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND RISK FACTORS.  Except for
historical

information, matters discussed in this Form 10-K, including the

Management's Discussion and Analysis and statements about

future growth, are forward-looking statements based on

management's estimates, assumptions and projections.  In

addition, from time to time, the Company may make
forward-looking

statements relating to such matters as anticipated financial

performance, business prospects, new products, research and

development activities, plans for international expansion,

acquisitions, and similar matters.  The Private Securities

Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for

forward-looking statements.  In order to comply with the terms

of the safe harbor, the Company notes that a variety of factors

could cause the Company's actual results and experience to

differ materially from the anticipated results or other

expectations expressed in the Company's forward-looking

statements.  These forward-looking statements are uncertain.

The risks and uncertainties that may affect operations,

performance, product development, and results of the Company's

business, some of which may be beyond the control of the

Company, include those discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K,

marketplace conditions and events, and the following:



FLUCTUATIONS IN QUARTERLY OPERATING RESULTS COULD ADVERSELY

AFFECT STOCK PRICE.  The Company cannot be sure that its

quarter-to-quarter operating results will improve, or that

if any improvement is shown, the degree of improvement will

meet expectations of investors.  In addition, sales volume

growth, whether due to acquisitions or to internal growth,

can place burdens on the Company's management resources and

financial controls that, in turn, can have a negative impact

on operating results.  To some extent, the Company sets its

expense levels in anticipation of future revenues.  If actual

revenue falls short of these expectations, operating results

are likely to be adversely affected.  Because of all of these

factors, the Company believes that quarter-to-quarter

comparisons of its results of operations should not be relied

upon as indications of future performance.



The price of the Company's common stock could fluctuate

substantially and decrease as a result of several factors,

including:



*     future announcements concerning the Company or its

      competitors;

*     quarterly variations in operating results;

*     the introduction of new products and line extensions

      by the Company or its competitors;

*     changes in product pricing policies by the Company

      or its competitors;

*     acquisition costs and restructuring and other charges

      associated with acquisitions;

*     changes in earnings estimates by analysts;

*     changes in accounting policies; or

*     the impact of general economic conditions in the United

      States and in other countries in which the Company

      currently does business.



In addition, stock markets have experienced price and volume

volatility and such volatility in the future could have an

adverse impact on the Company's market price.



INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS EXPOSE THE COMPANY TO UNCERTAIN

CONDITIONS IN OVERSEAS MARKETS.  The Company believes that

its international sales, which were 18% of net sales in fiscal

year 1999, are likely to increase as a percentage of its total

sales, because of both internal expansion and the addition of

First Brands international operations.  As a result, the Company

will increasingly face the risks created by having foreign

operations, including:



*     economic or political instability in its overseas markets;
and

*     fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates that may

      make the Company's products more expensive in its foreign

      markets or negatively impact its sales or earnings.



All of these risks could have a significant impact on the
Company's

ability to sell its products on a timely and competitive basis

in foreign markets and may have a material adverse effect on

the Company's results of operations or financial position.

The Company seeks to limit its foreign currency exchange risks

through the use of foreign currency forward contracts when

practical, but cannot be sure that this strategy will be

successful.  In addition, the Company's international operations

are subject to the risk of new and different legal and

regulatory requirements in local jurisdictions, potential

difficulties in staffing and managing local operations, credit

risk of local customers and distributors, and potentially

adverse tax consequences.



INTEGRATION OF ACQUISITIONS AND MERGERS MAY NOT BE SUCCESSFUL.

One of the Company's strategies is to increase its sales
volumes,

earnings and the markets it serves through the acquisition of,

or merger with, other businesses in the United States and

internationally.  There can be no assurance that the Company

will be able to identify, acquire, or profitably manage

additional companies or operations or successfully integrate

recent or future acquisitions or mergers, including the First

Brands businesses, into its operations.  In addition, there

can be no assurance that companies or operations acquired will

be profitable at the time of their acquisition or will achieve

sales levels and  profitability that justify the investment
made,

including the investment in First Brands.



FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE DEPENDS ON CONTINUOUS AND SUCCESSFUL NEW

PRODUCT INTRODUCTIONS.  In most categories in which the Company

competes, there are frequent introductions of new products and

line extensions.  An important factor in the Company's future

performance will be its ability to identify emerging consumer

and technological trends and to maintain and improve the

competitiveness of its products.  The Company cannot be sure

that it will successfully achieve those goals.  Continued
product

development and marketing efforts have all the risks inherent

in the development of new products and line extensions,
including

development delays, the failure of new products and line
extensions

to achieve anticipated levels of market acceptance, and the cost

of failed product introductions.



GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS COULD IMPOSE MATERIAL COSTS.  The

manufacture, packaging, storage, distribution and labeling of
the

Company's products and the Company's business operations
generally

all must comply with extensive federal, state, and foreign laws

and regulations.  For example, in the United States, many of the

Company's products are regulated by the Environmental Protection

Agency, the Food and Drug Administration, and the Consumer
Product

Safety Commission.  Most states have agencies that regulate in

parallel to these federal agencies.  The failure to comply

with applicable laws and regulations in these or other areas,

including taxes, could subject the Company to civil remedies,

including fines, injunctions, recalls or asset seizures, as

well as potential criminal sanctions, any of which could

have a material adverse effect on the Company.  Loss of or

failure to obtain necessary permits and registrations could

delay or prevent the Company from introducing new products,

building new facilities or acquiring new businesses and could

adversely affect operating results.



ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS CREATE POTENTIAL LIABILITY RISKS.  The

Company must comply with various environmental laws and

regulations in the jurisdictions in which it operates, including

those relating to air emissions, water discharges, the handling

and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes, and the remediation

of contamination associated with the use and disposal of

hazardous substances.  The Company has incurred, and will

continue to incur, capital and operating expenditures and

other costs in complying with those laws and regulations in

the United States and internationally.  The Company is

currently involved in or has potential liability with respect

to the remediation of past contamination in the operation of

some of its presently and formerly owned and leased facilities.

In addition, some of the Company's present and former facilities

have been or had been in operation for many years, and over

that time, some of these facilities may have used substances

or generated and disposed of wastes that are or may be
considered

hazardous.  It is possible that those sites, as well as disposal

sites owned by third parties to which the Company has sent
waste,

may in the future be identified and become the subject of

remediation.  It is possible that the Company could become

subject to additional environmental liabilities in the future

that could result in a material adverse effect on the Company's

results of operations or financial condition.



FAILURE TO PROTECT OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY COULD IMPACT OUR

COMPETITIVENESS.  The Company relies on trademark, trade secret,

patent and copyright laws to protect its intellectual property.

The Company cannot be sure that these intellectual property

rights can be successfully asserted in the future or will not be

invalidated, circumvented or challenged.  In addition, laws of

some of the foreign countries in which the Company's products

are or may be sold do not protect the Company's intellectual

property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United

States.  The failure of the Company to protect its proprietary

information and any successful intellectual property challenges

or infringement proceedings against the Company could make it

less competitive and could have a material adverse effect on

the Company's business, operating results and financial
condition.



(d)  FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC OPERATIONS

AND EXPORT SALES.



Net sales, pretax earnings and identifiable assets related to

foreign operations (including Puerto Rico and exports) for

each of the last three fiscal years is included in the

International segment information in Note 19 - Segment

Information of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial

Statements, which appears on pages B-28 and B-29 of Appendix B

of the Proxy Statement, incorporated herein by reference.



ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES



PRODUCTION FACILITIES.  The Company operates production and

major warehouse facilities for its operations in 29 locations

throughout the United States, and its subsidiaries operate

production facilities in 24 locations internationally.  Most

of the space is owned.  Some space, mainly for warehousing, is

leased.  The Company also leases six domestic regional

distribution centers for the Company's products which are

operated by service providers.  None of the Company's facilities

were closed during fiscal year 1999, and one former production

facility, in Kansas City, Missouri, was sold.  The Company

acquired property adjacent to its production facility in

Fairfield, California, for warehousing space during fiscal year

1999.  The Company considers its manufacturing and warehousing

facilities to be adequate to support its business.



OFFICES AND R&D FACILITIES.  The Company owns its general office

building located in Oakland, California.  The Company also owns

its Technical Center and Data Center located in Pleasanton,

California.  The Company leases its research and development

center and its engineering research facility for Glad and

GladWare products, which are located in Willowbrook, Illinois,

and Kennesauw, Georgia, respectively.  The Company also leases

its research and development center for STP products located in

Brookfield, Connecticut.  The Company plans to close the leased

First Brands general office building and to sublease such space

in the near future.  Leased sales and other office facilities

are located at a number of manufacturing and other locations.



ENCUMBRANCES.  None of the Company's owned facilities are
encumbered

to secure debt owed by the Company, except that the
manufacturing

facility in Belle, Missouri, secures industrial revenue bond

indebtedness incurred in relation to the construction or upgrade

thereof.



ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS



None.



ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS



None.



EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT



The names, ages and current positions of the executive officers
of

the Company are set forth below:







There is no family relationship between any of the above named

persons, or between any of such persons and any of the directors

of the Company or any persons nominated for election as a

director of the Company.  See Item 10 of Part III of this

Form 10-K.



G. C. Sullivan, P. N. Louras, Jr., J. M. Brady and H. J. Salvo

have been employed by the Company for at least the past five

years in the same respective positions as listed above.  The

other executive officers have held the respective positions

described below for at least the past five years:



G. E. Johnston joined the Company in July 1981 as Regional

Sales Manager - Special Markets.  Prior to his election as

President and Chief Operating Officer effective January 20,
1999,

he was Group Vice President from July 1, 1996 through January
19,

1999, Vice President - Kingsford Products from November 17, 1993

through June 1996, and Vice President - Corporate Development

from June 1992 through November 16, 1993.



R. T. Conti joined the Company in 1982 as Associate Region Sales

Manager, Household Products.  Prior to his election as Group
Vice

President effective September 1, 1999, he was Vice President -

General Manager from July 1999 through August 1999, Vice
President -

Kingsford Products from July 1996 through June 1999, and Vice

President - International from June 1992 through June 1996.



L. S. Peiros joined the Company in 1982.  He was elected Group
Vice

President effective January 20, 1999.  Prior to that, he served
as

Vice President - Household Products from  June 1, 1998 through

January 19, 1999, Vice President - Food Products from July 1995

through June 1998, and Vice President - Corporate Marketing
Services

from September 1993 until July 1995.



K. M. Rose joined the Company in 1978 as a Financial Analyst.
Prior

to her election as Group Vice President - Finance and Chief
Financial

Officer effective December 1, 1997, she was Vice President -
Treasurer

from July 1992 through November 1997.



P. D. Bewley joined the Company in February 1998 as Senior Vice

President - General Counsel and Secretary.  From 1994 through
January

1998, he was employed by Nova Care, Inc., as Senior Vice
President -

General Counsel and Secretary, and prior to that was employed by

Johnson & Johnson as Associate General Counsel.



A.W. Biebl joined the Company in January 1981 as Director of

Manufacturing for the Food Service Products Division.  Prior to

his election as Senior Vice President - Product Supply effective

September 1, 1999, he was Vice President - Product Supply from

May 1992 through August 1999.



F. A. Tataseo joined the Company in October 1994 as Vice

President - Sales and was elected as Senior Vice President

Sales effective September 1, 1999.  Previously, he was employed

by The Pillsbury Company (Division of Grand Metropolitan Inc.)

as Vice President, Sales (March - September 1994), and as Vice

President, Direct Sales Force (June 1993 - February 1994); and

also held various positions at The Procter & Gamble Company

prior to that.



C. M. Couric joined the Company in 1973 as a brand assistant in

the Household Products marketing organization.  Prior to his

election in July 1995 as Vice President - General Manager, Brita

Products, he had served as Director, Brita Operations since
1988.



W. L. Delker joined the Company as Vice President - Research &

Development in August 1999.  Prior to that, he was General
Manager

of Six Sigma Quality for GE Silicones, a division of GE Plastic,

from February 1998 through July 1999, and General Manager of

Technology for GE Silicones from January 1994 through January
1998.



S. D. House joined the Company in 1983 as a staff accountant.
Prior

to his election as Vice President - General Manager, Latin
America

effective July 1, 1999, he was Vice President - Treasurer from
December 1,

1997 through June 1999, and prior to that he had served as a
Director

of Finance for the international business and also had held
various

positions in auditing, financial analysis and forecasting.



R. C. Klaus joined the Company in 1977 as Regional Sales Manager

(Baltimore) for  Household Products.  Prior to his election as
Vice

President - Corporate Administration in November 1995, he was
Vice

President - Clorox Professional Products from March 1994 through

October 1995, and Vice President - Food Service Products from
May 1990

through March 1994.



D. G. Matz joined the Company in 1986 as a brand assistant in
the

Company's Household Products marketing organization.  Prior to

his election as Vice President - General Manager, Home Care

effective September 1, 1999, he was Category General Manager -
Home

Care from February 1999 through August 1999, Director of
Marketing - Home

Care from December 1997 through August 1999, Director of
Marketing -

Food Products and Auto Care from August 1995 through November
1997,

and Group Marketing Manager - Laundry Care Additives from
January 1994

through July 1995.



G. R. Savage joined the Company in 1983 as an Associate
Marketing

Manager.  He was elected Vice President - General Manager, Glad

Products effective January 20, 1999.  Prior to that, he served
as

Vice President - Food Products from December 1, 1997 through
January 19,

1999, and Director of Marketing for the Household Products
business

from 1993.



S. S. Silberblatt joined the Company in 1980 in the marketing
department

for Kingsford products.  Prior to his election as Vice
President-

Corporate Communications and Public Affairs in February 1999, he
was

Director of Business Development.



D. G. Simpson joined the Company in 1979 in the brand management

function.  He was elected Vice President - Strategy and Planning

effective December 1, 1997.  Prior to that, he had served as
head of

corporate strategic planning.



K. R. Tandowsky joined the Company in 1981 as a Staff
Accountant.

He was elected Vice President - Information Services effective
February 7,

1998.  Prior to that, he had served as Director of Finance for
the

Kingsford products business from 1994 and Director of Corporate
Finance,

Treasury from 1992.



S. R. Vogel joined the Company in 1988 as a brand assistant in
the

marketing organization.  Prior to his election as Vice
President- General

Manager, Laundry Additives effective September 1, 1999, he was
Category

General Manager - Laundry Cleaning Additives from February 1999
through

August 1999, Marketing Director - Laundry Cleaning Additives
from 1997

through January 1999, Group Marketing Manager - Laundry Cleaning
Additives

from 1995 through 1996, and Group Marketing Manager Home
Cleaning from

1994 to 1995.



S. A. Weiss joined the Company in 1994 as an area general
manager

for the Pacific Rim business.  He was elected Vice President -

General Manager, Food & Professional Products effective February
1,

1999.  Prior to that, he was Vice President - Asia Middle East
from June 1998

through January 1999 and he held the position of Area General

Manager Asia-Middle East from 1994 until his election as an
officer.

Before joining the Company, he had been employed by Bristol
Myers

Squibb in international and domestic marketing assignments.



PART II



ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED

STOCKHOLDER MATTERS



(a)  MARKET INFORMATION.



The principal markets for Clorox Common Stock are the New York

Stock Exchange and the Pacific Exchange.  The high and low sales

prices quoted for New York Stock Exchange-Composite Transactions

Report for each quarterly period during the past two fiscal
years

appears under "Quarterly Data," on page B-32 of Appendix B of
the

Proxy Statement, incorporated herein by reference, and on July
30, 1999,

the closing price for the Company's stock was $56.00 per share.



(b)  HOLDERS.



The approximate number of record holders of Clorox Common Stock
as of

July 31, 1999 was 14,212 based on information provided by the

Company's transfer agent.



(c)  DIVIDENDS.



The amount of quarterly dividends paid with respect to Clorox
Common

Stock during the past two fiscal years appears under "Quarterly
Data,"

on page B-32 of Appendix B of the Proxy Statement, incorporated

herein by reference.



ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA



This information appears under "Five-Year Financial Summary," on

page B-33 of Appendix B of the Proxy Statement, incorporated
herein

by reference.





ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL

CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION



This information appears under "Management's Discussion and
Analysis,"

on  pages B-1 through B-7 of Appendix B of the Proxy Statement,

incorporated herein by reference.



ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET

RISK



This information appears under "Market-Sensitive Derivatives and

Financial Instruments" in the "Management's Discussion and
Analysis,"

on pages B-4 and B-5 of Appendix B of the Proxy Statement,

incorporated herein by reference.



ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA



These statements and data appear on pages B-8 through B-32 of

Appendix B of the Proxy Statement, incorporated herein by
reference.



ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
ACCOUNTING

AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE



None.



PART III



ITEM l0.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT



Information regarding each nominee for election as a director,

including those who are executive officers of the Company,
appears

under "Nominees for Election as Directors" of the  Proxy
Statement,

incorporated herein by reference.



Pursuant to Instruction 3 to Item 401(b) of Regulation S-K,

information regarding the executive officers of the registrant
is

reported in Part I of this Report.



The information required by Item 405 of Regulation S-K appears
under

"Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance" of the

Proxy Statement, incorporated herein by reference.



ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION



The information required by Item 402 of Regulation S-K appears

under "Organization of the Board of Directors,"  "Summary

Compensation Table," "Options and Stock Appreciation Rights,"

"Comparative Stock Performance," "Compensation  Interlocks and

Insider Participation," and "Pension Benefits" of the Proxy

Statement, all incorporated herein by reference.



ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND

MANAGEMENT



(a)  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS.



Information concerning the only entity or person known to the

Company to be the beneficial owner of more than 5% of its Common

Stock appears under "Beneficial Ownership of Voting Securities"

of the Proxy Statement, incorporated herein by reference.



(b)  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF MANAGEMENT.



Information concerning the beneficial ownership of the

Company's Common Stock by each nominee for election as a
director

and by all directors and executive officers as a group appears

under "Beneficial Ownership of Voting Securities" of the Proxy

Statement, incorporated herein by reference.



ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS



Information concerning transactions with directors, nominees

for election as directors, management and the beneficial owner

of more than 5% of the Company's Common Stock appears under

"Certain Relationships and Transactions" of the Proxy Statement,

incorporated herein by reference.



PART IV



ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS

ON FORM 8-K



(a)(1)     Financial Statements:




     Financial Statements and Independent Auditors' Report

     included in Appendix B of the Proxy Statement,

     incorporated herein by reference:



          Statements of Consolidated Earnings for the years

          ended June 30, 1999, l998 and l997



          Consolidated Balance Sheets for the years ended

          June 30, 1999 and l998



          Statements of Consolidated Stockholders' Equity for

          the years ended June 30, 1999, l998 and l997



          Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows for the years

          ended June 30, 1999, l998 and l997



          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements



          Independent Auditors' Report



     Quarterly Data



     Five-Year Financial Summary



   (2)     Financial Statement Schedules have been omitted
because of

           the absence of conditions under which they are
required, or

           because the information is shown elsewhere in this
Form 10-K.



   (3)     Executive Compensation Plans and Arrangements:



           Long-Term Compensation Program dated October 21,
1987,

           amended 11/17/93 (Exhibit 10(ii) to the Annual Report

           on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 1994)



           Officer Employment Agreement (form) (Exhibit 10(xi)
to

           the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended

           June 30, 1996)



           Officer Change of Control Employment Agreement (form)

           (Exhibit 10(xii) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K
for

           the year ended June 30, 1996)



           Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan dated July 17,

           1991 (Exhibit 10(x) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K

           for the year ended June 30, 1993)



           Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan (Exhibit
10(xiii)

           to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year

           ended June 30, 1996)



           The Clorox Company 1995 Performance Unit Plan

          (Exhibit 10(xiv) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K

           for the year ended June 30, 1996)



          The Clorox Company 1996 Stock Incentive Plan (Exhibit
10(xv)

          to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year

          ended June 30, 1996)



          The Clorox Company 1996 Executive Incentive
Compensation

          Plan (Exhibit 10(xvi) to the Annual Report on Form
10-K for

          the year ended June 30, 1996)



          The Clorox Company Employee Retirement Investment
Plan,

          formerly The Clorox Company Value Sharing Plan
(Exhibit 4.3

          to Amendment No. 2 dated July 12, 1996 to Registration

          Statement on Form S-8 No. 33-41131 dated June 10, 1991)



          1993 Directors' Stock Option Plan dated November 17,

          (filed as Exhibit 10(xi) to the Annual Report on Form
10-K

          for the year ended June 30, 1994, incorporated herein
by

          reference)



          The Clorox Company Independent Directors' Stock-Based

          Compensation Plan (Exhibit 10 (xix) to the Annual
Report on

          Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 1997)



(b)     Current Reports on Form 8-K during the fourth quarter of

        fiscal year 1999:



          None.



(c)     Exhibits:



          Index to Exhibits follows.



(d)     (Not applicable)



Index to Exhibits



    (3)  (i)   Restated Certificate of Incorporation (filed as

               Exhibit 4.1 to Registration Statement on Form S-8

               No. 333-44675 dated January 22, 1998,
incorporated

               herein by reference)



        (ii)   Bylaws (restated) of the Company (filed as

               Exhibit 3(ii) to this Annual Report on Form 10-K
for

               the year ended June 30, 1998)



   (4)   (i)   Form of Indenture between the Company and
Wachovia Bank &

               Trust Company, N.A. as Trustee, regarding
$200,000,000

               in 8.8% Notes due 2001 (filed as Exhibit 4 to the

               Company's Registration Statement on Form S-3 No.
33-4083

               dated May 24, 1991, incorporated herein by
reference)



         (ii)  Prospectus Supplement (to Prospectus dated July
9, 1991)

               giving terms of the Indenture referenced in
Exhibit 4 (i)

               above (filed on July 18, 1991, supplementing the

               Registration Statement on Form S-3 No. 33-4083
dated

               May 24, 1991, and incorporated herein by
reference)



        (iii)  Form of Indenture between First Brands and Bank
of

               New York, as Trustee, regarding $150,000,000 in

               7.25% Senior Notes due 2007 (filed as Exhibit 4.1
to

               First Brands' Registration Statement on Form S-4
dated

               April 24, 1997, 1998, incorporated herein by
reference)



   (10)        Material contracts:



         (i)   Long-Term Compensation Program dated October 21,

               (Amended 11/17/93) (filed as Exhibit 10(ii) to
the

               Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
June 30,

               1994, incorporated herein by reference)



        (ii)   Agreement between Henkel KGaA and the Company
dated

               June l8, l981 (filed as Exhibit (l0)(v) to Form 8
dated

               August 11, l983, incorporated herein by reference)



       (iii)   Agreement between Henkel GmbH (now Henkel KGaA)
and

               the Company dated July 3l, l974 (filed as

               Exhibit (l0)(vi) to Form 8 dated August 11, l983,

               incorporated herein by reference)



        (iv)   Agreement between Henkel KGaA and the Company
dated

               November l6, 1981 (filed as Exhibit (l0)(vii) to
Form 8

               dated August 11, l983, incorporated herein by
reference)



         (v)   Agreement between Henkel KGaA and the Company
dated

               July 16, 1986 (filed as Exhibit B to Current
Report on

               Form 8-K for March 19, 1987, incorporated herein
by

               reference)



        (vi)   Agreement between Henkel KGaA and the Company
dated

               March 18, 1987 (filed as Exhibit A to Current
Report

               on Form 8-K for March 19, 1987, incorporated
herein

               by reference)



       (vii)   Agreement between Henkel KGaA and the Company
dated

               January 16, 1992 (filed as Exhibit 10(xi) to the
Annual

               Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30,
1992,

               incorporated herein by reference)



      (viii)   Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan dated July
17,

               1991 (filed as Exhibit 10(x) to the Annual Report
on

               Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 1993,
incorporated

               herein by reference)



        (ix)   1993 Directors' Stock Option Plan dated November
17, 1993

               (filed as Exhibit 10(xi) to the Annual Report on
Form

               10-K for the year ended June 30, 1994,
incorporated

               herein by reference)



         (x)   Officer Employment Agreement (form) (filed as

               Exhibit 10(xi) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K
for

               the year ended June 30, 1996, incorporated herein
by

               reference)



        (xi)   Officer Change of Control Employment Agreement
(form)

               (filed as Exhibit 10(xii) to the Annual Report on

               Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 1996,

               incorporated herein by reference)



       (xii)   Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan (filed
as

               Exhibit 10(xiii) to the Annual Report on Form
10-K for

               the year ended June 30, 1996, incorporated herein

               by this reference)



      (xiii)   The Clorox Company 1995 Performance Unit Plan
(filed as

               Exhibit 10(xiv) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K
for

               the year ended June 30, 1996, incorporated herein
by

               reference)



      (xiv)    The Clorox Company 1996 Stock Incentive Plan
(filed

               as Exhibit 10(xv) to the Annual Report on Form
10-K

               for the year ended June 30, 1996, incorporated
herein

               by this reference)



       (xv)    The Clorox Company 1996 Executive Incentive

               Compensation Plan  (filed as Exhibit 10(xvi) to
the

               Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended

               June 30, 1996, incorporated herein by reference)



      (xvi)    The Clorox Company Employee Retirement Investment
Plan,

               formerly The Clorox Company Value Sharing Plan

               Investment Plan (Exhibit 4.3 to Amendment No. 2
dated

               July 12, 1996 to Registration Statement on Form
S-8

               No. 33-41131 dated June 10, 1991, incorporated
herein

               by reference)



      (xvii)   The Clorox Company Independent Directors'
Stock-Based

               Compensation Plan (filed as Exhibit 10 (xix) to
the

               Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
June 30,

               1997, incorporated herein by reference)



     (xviii)   Agreement and Plan of Reorganization and Merger
by

               and among The Clorox Company, Pennant, Inc. and

               First Brands Corporation (Appendix A to
Registration

               Statement on Form S-4 No. 333-69455 dated

               December 22, 1998, incorporated herein by
reference)



   (13)        Excerpts of 1999 Annual Report to Stockholders



   (21)        Subsidiaries of the Company



   (23)        Independent Auditors' Consents



         (i)   Deloitte & Touche LLP Independent Auditors'
Consent



        (ii)   KPMG LLP Independent Auditors' Consent



   (24)        Power of Attorney (see pages 17-18)



   (27)        Financial Data Schedule





SIGNATURES



Pursuant to the requirements of Section l3 or l5(d) of the

Securities Exchange Act of l934, the registrant has duly

caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the

undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.



      THE CLOROX COMPANY

Date:  September 15, 1999      By: /s/ G. C. Sullivan

                                   G. C. Sullivan,

                                   Chairman of the Board and

                                   Chief Executive Officer





KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose

signature appears below constitutes and appoints Peter D.

Bewley, Karen M. Rose, and Henry J. Salvo, Jr., jointly

and severally, attorneys-in-fact and agents, with full

power of substitution, for her or him in any and all

capacities to sign any and all amendments to this Form 10-K,

and to file the same and all exhibits thereto, and other

documents in connection therewith, with the Securities

and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming

all that each of said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and

his or their substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do

or cause to be done by virtue hereof.



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange

Act of l934, this report has been signed below by the

following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the

capacities and on the dates indicated.









