
10-K
FORM 10-K TEXT


            
               UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                          WASHINGTON, D.C.  20549

                                FORM 10-K
(Mark One)

[x]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 1996

OR  [ ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF 
THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the transmission period from                to              
                                 --------------    -------------

                     Commission file number 1-07151

                          THE CLOROX COMPANY
           (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

   DELAWARE                                       31-0595760   
(State or other jurisdiction of               (I.R.S. Employer
 incorporation or organization)               Identification No.)

1221 Broadway, Oakland, CA                        94612-1888
(Address of principal executive offices)          (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number,                 (510) 271-7000
 including area code  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:   

                                          Name of each exchange 
Title of each class                         on which registered 
- ------------------------                  ------------------------
Common Stock, $1 par value                New York Stock Exchange
                                          Pacific Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  NONE.

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all 
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months 
(or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to 
file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing 
requirements for the past 90 days. 
Yes  X        No     
    ---          ---

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers 
pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, 
and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's 
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements 
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any 
amendment to this Form 10-K.[  ]

Aggregate market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates of 
the registrant at July 31, 1998: $10,620,440,671.  
Number of shares of common stock outstanding at July 31, 
1998:  103,684,744.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the registrant's Annual Report to Stockholders 
for the Year Ended June 30, 1998 are incorporated by reference 
into Parts I, II and IV of this Report.  Portions of the 
registrant's definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting 
of Stockholders to be held on November 18, 1998, which will be 
filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission 
within 120 days after the end of the registrant's fiscal year 
ended June 30, 1998, are incorporated by reference into Part III 
of this Report.
PART I

ITEM l.  BUSINESS  

(a)  GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS.

The Company (the term "Company" as used herein includes the 
registrant identified on the facing sheet, The Clorox Company, 
and its subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise) 
was originally founded in Oakland, California in 1913 as the 
Electro-Alkaline Company.  It was reincorporated as Clorox 
Chemical Corporation in 1922, as Clorox Chemical Co. in 1928, 
and as The Clorox Company (an Ohio corporation) in 1957, when 
the business was acquired by The Procter & Gamble Company.  
The Company was fully divested by The Procter & Gamble Company 
in 1969 and, as an independent company, was reincorporated in 
1973 in California as The Clorox Company.  In 1986, the 
Company was reincorporated in Delaware.

Portions of The Clorox Company Annual Report for the Year
Ended June 30, 1998 ("Annual Report") to its stockholders are 
incorporated herein by specific reference.

During fiscal year 1998, the Company continued to focus 
on expanding its domestic business, through internal 
development of new products and line extensions of existing 
products, and on the completion of the integration of the 
"Armor All" business purchased in fiscal year 1997.  The 
Company introduced 13 new products in the United States 
during fiscal year 1998, including "Clorox 2" bleach-free 
laundry booster, "Tilex Fresh Shower" daily shower cleaner 
and Lemon Fresh "Formula 409" all-purpose cleaner.   
Internationally, the Company continued implementing its 
strategy to expand its laundry, household cleaning and 
insecticide businesses to markets where these categories 
are not yet fully developed, but where it believes high 
potential exists.  The Company made six international 
acquisitions in fiscal year 1998.  Three of the acquisitions 
were in Brazil, consisting of the "Clorosul" brand of 
liquid bleach, the "Super Globo" brand of bleach and 
cleaners, and the "X-14" brand of cleaners.  Also, household 
cleaner businesses were purchased in Southeast Asia and 
Chile and an insecticide business was purchased in Australia.  
In addition, the Company introduced 28 new products or 
line extensions in previously established international 
operations.

(b)  FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT INDUSTRY SEGMENTS.

The Company's operations are predominantly in one 
segment -- non-durable household consumer products.  
Such operations include the production and marketing of 
non-durable consumer products sold primarily through 
grocery and other retail stores.  Financial information for 
the last three fiscal years attributable to the Company's 
operations is set forth in the Consolidated Financial 
Statements, on pages 34 through 47 of the Annual Report, 
incorporated herein by this reference. 

(c)  NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS.

PRINCIPAL PRODUCTS.  Products currently marketed in the 
United States and certain foreign countries are listed on 
pages 25 through 29 of the Annual Report, incorporated 
herein by this reference.

PRINCIPAL MARKETS - METHODS OF DISTRIBUTION.  Most non-durable 
household consumer products are nationally advertised and 
sold within the United States to grocery stores through a 
network of brokers, and to mass merchandisers, warehouse 
clubs, military and other retail stores primarily through 
a direct sales force.  The Company also sells within the 
United States institutional versions of specialty food 
and non-food products.  Outside the United States, the 
Company sells consumer products through subsidiaries, 
licensees, distributors and joint-venture arrangements 
with local partners.

SOURCES AND AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIALS.  The Company 
has obtained ample supplies of all required raw materials 
and packaging supplies, which, with a few exceptions, 
were available from a wide variety of sources during fiscal 
year 1998.  Contingency plans have been developed for 
single-sourced supplier materials. 

PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS.  Although some products are 
covered by patents, the Company does not believe that 
patents, patent licenses or similar arrangements are 
material to its business.  Most of the Company's brand 
name consumer products are protected by registered 
trademarks.  Its brand names and trademarks are extremely 
important to its business and the Company pursues a 
course of vigorous action against apparent infringements.

SEASONALITY.  The portions of the operations of the 
Company that have any significant degree of seasonality 
are the marketing of charcoal briquets, insecticides, 
and automotive appearance products.  Most sales of 
these product lines occur in the third and fourth fiscal 
quarters.  Working capital to carry inventories built 
up in the off-season and to extend terms to customers 
is generally provided by internally generated funds plus 
commercial paper lines of credit.

CUSTOMERS AND ORDER BACKLOG.  During fiscal years 1998, 
1997 and 1996, revenues from the Company's sales of 
its products to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its affiliated 
companies were 16%, 15% and 14%, respectively, of the 
Company's gross consolidated revenues.  Except for this 
relationship, the Company is not dependent upon any 
other single customer or a few customers.  Order backlog 
is not a significant factor in the Company's business.  

RENEGOTIATION.  None of the Company's operations is 
subject to renegotiation or termination at the election 
of the Federal government.

COMPETITION.  The markets for consumer products are 
highly competitive and most of the Company's products 
compete with other nationally advertised brands within 
each category, and with "private label" brands and 
"generic" non-branded products of grocery chains and 
wholesale cooperatives.  Competition is encountered from 
similar and alternative products, many of which are 
produced and marketed by major national concerns having 
financial resources greater than those of the Company.  
Depending on the competitive product, the Company's 
products compete on price, quality or other benefits 
to consumers.

A newly introduced consumer product (whether improved or 
newly developed) usually encounters intense competition 
requiring substantial expenditures for advertising and 
sales promotion.  If a product gains consumer acceptance, 
it normally requires continuing advertising and 
promotional support to maintain relative market position.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT.  The Company's operations 
incurred expenses of approximately $56,005,000, $50,489,000
and $45,821,000 in fiscal years 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively, 
on research activities relating to the development of new 
products or the maintenance and improvement of existing 
products.  None of such research activity was customer-
sponsored.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS.  Historically, the Company has 
not made material capital expenditures for environmental 
control facilities or to comply with environmental laws 
and regulations.  However, in general, the Company does 
anticipate spending increasing amounts annually for facility 
upgrades and for environmental programs.  The amount of 
capital expenditures for environmental compliance was not 
material in fiscal year 1998 and is not expected to be 
material in the next fiscal year.

In addition, the Company is involved in certain other 
environmental matters, including: 

(i)     The Company sold its architectural coatings 
business in fiscal year 1990.  In connection with the 
disposition of those manufacturing facilities, the Company 
retained responsibility for certain environmental 
obligations.  The financial reserve established at the 
time of the sale is expected to be adequate to cover the 
financial responsibilities for environmental matters that 
may arise in the future.

(ii)     In April 1992, the Company was named as a 
potentially responsible party ("PRP") by the Environmental 
Protection Agency pursuant to the Spill Compensation and 
Control Act, the Sanitary Landfill Closure and Contingency 
Fund Act, and a section of the Solid Waste Management Act, 
for a site in New Jersey.  Based on the Company's experience 
and because the Company's level of involvement is extremely 
limited, the Company does not expect that this matter will 
represent a material cost to the Company in the future.  

(iii)     In July 1995, an explosion attributed to 
methane caused property damage and personal injury in a 
residential area near a site formerly operated by a 
predecessor of a subsidiary of the Company in Kingsford, 
Michigan.  In October 1996, The Company was named 
as a PRP and jointly with another PRP is investigating the 
area.  The Company's investigation of the area is ongoing 
and the Company's potential liability is not expected to 
be material in the future.

(iv)     In June 1995, Armor All Products Corporation,
subsequently acquired by the Company, was named as a PRP 
by the Environmental Protection Agency for a landfill site 
in Whittier, California.  Based on the Company's experience 
and because the Company's level of involvement was 
extremely limited, the Company does not expect that this 
matter will represent a material cost to the Company in 
the future.
  
(v)     In July 1997, the Company was served with a 
Notice of Violation ("NOV") by the Environmental Protection 
Agency pursuant to the Clean Air Act for a site operated by 
its subsidiary in Beryl, West Virginia.  In March 1998, 
the Environmental Protection Agency filed suit based on the 
NOV and alleged prior Clean Air Act violations, the majority 
of which had been resolved between the Company's subsidiary 
and the State of West Virginia in March 1997.   Based on 
the Company's experience, the Company does not expect that 
this matter will represent a material cost to the Company 
in the future. 

(vi)     In September 1997, the Company was served with an 
NOV by the Environmental Protection Agency pursuant to the Clean 
Air Act for a site in Chicago, Illinois; and in August 
1998, the Company was served with an NOV by the Missouri 
Department of Natural Resources pursuant to the Missouri 
Air Pollution Control Program for a site in Belle, Missouri.
Based on the Company's experience, the Company does not 
expect that either of these matters will represent a material 
cost to the Company in the future.

Although the potential cost to the Company related to 
ongoing environmental matters is uncertain due to such 
factors as: the unknown magnitude of possible pollution 
and clean-up costs; the complexity and evolving nature of 
governmental laws and regulations and their interpretations; 
and the timing, varying costs and effectiveness of alternative 
clean-up technologies; based on its experience and without 
offsetting for expected insurance recoveries or discounting 
for present value, the Company does not expect that such costs 
individually and in the aggregate will represent a material 
cost to the Company or affect its competitive position.

NUMBER OF PERSONS EMPLOYED.  At the end of fiscal year 1998, 
approximately 6,600 persons were employed by the Company.

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND RISK FACTORS.  Except for 
historical information, matters discussed in this Form 10-K, 
including statements about  future growth, are forward-looking 
statements based on management's estimates, assumptions and 
projections.  In addition, from time to time, the Company may 
publish forward-looking statements relating to such matters 
as anticipated financial performance, business prospects, new 
products, research and development activities, plans for 
international expansion, acquisitions, and similar matters.  
The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides 
a safe harbor for forward-looking statements.  In order to 
comply with the terms of the safe harbor, the Company notes 
that a variety of factors could cause the Company's actual 
results and experience to differ materially from the 
anticipated results or other expectations expressed in the 
Company's forward-looking statements.  The risks and 
uncertainties that may affect operations, performance, product 
development, and results of the Company's business include, 
without limitation, those discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K, 
marketplace conditions and events, and the following:

Fluctuations in Quarterly Operating Results and Stock Price.  
Although the Company's recent historical operating results 
have improved when compared with the same quarter in the 
previous fiscal year, there can be no assurance that such 
quarter-to-quarter comparisons will continue to improve, or 
that if any improvement is shown, the degree of improvement 
will meet investors' expectations.  In addition, sales volume 
growth, whether due to acquisitions or to internal growth, 
can place burdens on the Company's management resources and 
financial controls which, in turn, can  have a negative 
impact on operating results.  The Company's quarterly 
operating results will be influenced by a host of factors, 
which include the following: the seasonality of its brands; 
the extent of competition; the degree of market acceptance 
of new products and line extensions; the mix of products 
sold in a given quarter; changes in pricing policies by the 
Company and by its competitors; acquisition costs and 
restructuring and other charges associated with acquisitions; 
the ability of the Company to develop, introduce and market 
successful new products and line extensions; the ability of 
the Company to control its internal costs and costs of its 
raw materials and packaging materials; the Company's success 
in expanding its international operations; changes in the 
Company's strategy; personnel changes; and general economic 
conditions.  To a certain extent, the Company bases its 
expense levels in anticipation of future revenues.  If 
revenue levels come in below such expectations, operating 
results are likely to be adversely affected.  Because of 
all of these factors, the Company believes that quarter-to-quarter 
comparisons of its results of operations should not be relied 
upon as indications of future performance.  

Future announcements concerning the Company or its competitors, 
quarterly variations in operating results, the introduction 
of new products and line extensions or changes in product 
pricing policies by the Company or its competitors, changes 
in earning estimates by analysts, or changes in accounting 
policies, among other factors, could cause the market price 
of the Company's common stock to fluctuate substantially and 
have an adverse effect on the price of the Company's common 
stock.  In addition, stock markets have experienced price 
and volume volatility and such volatility in the future could 
have an adverse impact on the Company's market price.

International Operations. The Company believes that  its 
international sales, which were 18% of net sales in fiscal 
year 1998, are likely to comprise an increasing percentage 
of its total sales.  As a result, the Company will be 
increasingly subject to the risks associated with foreign 
operations including economic or political instability in 
its overseas markets, shipping delays and fluctuations in 
foreign currency exchange rates that may make its products 
more expensive in its foreign markets, all of which could 
have a significant impact on the Company's ability to sell 
its products on a timely and competitive basis in foreign 
markets and may have a materially adverse effect on the 
Company's results of operations or financial position.  The 
Company seeks to limit foreign currency exchange risks 
through the use of foreign currency forward contracts when 
practical, but there can be no assurance that this strategy 
will be successful.  In addition, the Company's international 
operations are subject to the risk of new and different legal 
and regulatory requirements in local jurisdictions, potential 
difficulties in staffing and managing local operations, 
credit risk of local customers and distributors, and potentially 
adverse tax consequences.
 
Importance of New Products and Line Extensions.  In most 
categories in which the Company competes, there are frequent 
introductions of new products and line extensions.  
Accordingly, an important factor in the Company's future 
performance will be its ability to identify emerging consumer 
and technological trends and to maintain and improve the 
competitiveness of its products.  However, there can be no 
assurance that the Company will successfully achieve those 
goals.  Continued product development and marketing efforts 
are subject to all the risks inherent in the development of 
new products and line extensions, including development 
delays, the failure of new products and line extensions to 
achieve anticipated levels of market acceptance, as well as 
the cost of failed product introductions.

Integration of Acquisitions.  One of the Company's strategies 
is to increase its revenues and the markets it serves through 
the acquisition of other businesses in the United States and 
internationally.  There can be no assurance that the Company 
will be able to identify, acquire, or profitably manage 
additional companies or operations or successfully integrate 
recent or future acquisitions into its operations.  In 
addition, there can be no assurance that companies or 
operations acquired will be profitable at the time of their 
acquisition or will achieve sales levels and  profitability 
that justify the investment made. 
 
Environmental Matters.  The Company is subject to various 
environmental laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in 
which it operates, including those relating to air emissions, 
water discharges, the handling and disposal of solid and 
hazardous wastes, and the remediation of contamination 
associated with the use and disposal of hazardous substances.  
The Company has incurred, and will continue to incur, capital 
and operating expenditures and other costs in complying with 
such laws and regulations in  the United States and 
internationally.  The Company is currently involved  in or 
has potential liability with respect to the remediation of 
past contamination in the operation of certain of its present 
and formerly owned and leased facilities.  In addition, 
certain of the Company's present and former facilities have 
been or had been in operation for many years, and over such 
time, some of these facilities may have used substances or 
generated and disposed of wastes that are or may be considered 
hazardous.  It is possible that such sites, as well as 
disposal sites owned by third parties to which the Company 
has sent waste, may in the future be identified and become 
the subject of remediation.  Accordingly, although the 
Company believes that it is currently in substantial 
compliance with applicable environmental requirements, it 
is possible the Company could become subject to additional 
environmental liabilities in the future that could result 
in a material adverse effect on the Company's results of 
operations or financial condition.

Intellectual Property.  The Company relies on trademark, 
trade secret, patent and copyright law to protect its 
intellectual property.  There can be no assurance that 
such intellectual property rights can be successfully 
asserted in the future or will not be invalidated, 
circumvented or challenged.  In addition, laws of certain 
foreign countries in which the Company's products are or 
may be sold do not protect the Company's intellectual 
property rights to the same extent as the laws of the 
United States.  The failure of the Company to protect 
its proprietary information and any successful intellectual 
property challenges or infringement proceedings against 
the Company could have a material adverse effect on the 
Company's business, operating results and financial condition.

Government Regulations.  The manufacture, packaging, 
storage, distribution and labeling of the Company's 
products and the Company's business operations generally 
are all subject to extensive federal, state, and foreign 
laws and regulations.  For example, in the United States, 
many of the Company's products are subject to regulation by 
the Environmental Protection Agency, the Food and Drug 
Administration, and the Consumer Product Safety Commission.  
Most states have agencies that regulate in parallel to these 
federal agencies.  The failure to comply with applicable laws 
and regulations in these or other areas could subject the 
Company to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, 
recalls or seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions, 
any of which could have a material adverse effect on the 
Company.  Loss of or failure to obtain necessary permits and 
registrations could delay or prevent the Company from 
introducing  new products, building new facilities or 
acquiring new businesses and could adversely effect operating 
results.

(d)  FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC 
OPERATIONS AND EXPORT SALES.

Net sales, pretax earnings and identifiable assets related 
to foreign operations (excluding Puerto Rico and exports) 
were 17%, 7% and 29%, respectively, for fiscal year 1998.  
See Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, 
on page 46 of the Annual Report, incorporated herein by 
this reference.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

PRODUCTION FACILITIES.  The Company operates production and 
major warehouse facilities for its operations in 17 
locations throughout the United States, and in 29 locations 
internationally.  Most of the space is owned.  Some space, 
mainly for warehousing, is leased.  The Company also leases 
six domestic regional distribution centers for the Company's 
products which are operated by service providers.  None of 
the Company's facilities were either closed or sold during 
fiscal year 1998 except for the sale of an idle site 
previously operated by a subsidiary in Elk Grove, California.  
The Company considers its manufacturing and warehousing 
facilities to be adequate to support its business.

OFFICES AND TECHNICAL CENTER.  The Company's general office 
building is owned and is located in Oakland, California.  
The Company's Technical Center and Data Center are owned and 
are located in Pleasanton, California.  Leased sales and 
other office facilities are located at a number of manufacturing 
and other locations.

ENCUMBRANCES.  None of the Company's owned facilities are 
encumbered to secure debt owed by the Company, except that 
the manufacturing facility in Belle, Missouri, secures 
industrial revenue bond indebtedness incurred in relation 
to the construction or upgrade thereof.  

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

None.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

None.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The names, ages and current positions of the executive 
officers of the Company are set forth below:

Name (Age) and Year
   Elected to Current Position     Title and Current Position(s) 
- ----------------------------------------------------------------

G. C. Sullivan      (58)  1992     Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive 
                                    Officer  and President

P. D. Bewley        (52)  1998     Senior Vice President - General Counsel
                                    and Secretary

G. E. Johnston      (51)  1996     Group Vice President

P. N. Louras, Jr.   (48)  1992     Group Vice President

K. M. Rose          (50)  1997     Group Vice President - Finance and Chief
                                    Financial Officer

C. T. Alcantara     (48)  1998     Vice President - Worldwide Business
                                    Development

A. W. Biebl         (49)  1992     Vice President - Product Supply

R. H. Bolte         (58)  1995     Vice President - Corporate Marketing 
                                    Services 

J. M. Brady         (44)  1993     Vice President - Human Resources

R. T. Conti         (43)  1996     Vice President - Kingsford Products



C. M. Couric        (52)  1995     Vice President - Brita Products

S. D. House         (37)  1997     Vice President - Treasurer

R. C. Klaus         (53)  1995     Vice President - Corporate Administration

L. S. Peiros        (43)  1998     Vice President - Household Products

H. J. Salvo, Jr.    (50)  1991     Vice President - Controller

G. R. Savage        (42)  1997     Vice President - Food Products

D. G. Simpson       (44)  1997     Vice President - Strategy and Planning

K. R. Tandowsky     (41)  1998     Vice President - Information Services

F. A. Tataseo       (44)  l994     Vice President - Sales

S. A. Weiss         (42)  1998     Vice President - Asia Middle East

There is no family relationship between any of the above named 
persons, or between any of such persons and any of the directors
of the Company or any persons nominated for election as a 
director of the Company.  See Item 10 of Part III of this Form 10-K.

G. C. Sullivan, P. N. Louras, Jr., A. W. Biebl, J. M. Brady 
and H .J. Salvo have been employed by the Company for at least 
the past five years in the same respective positions as listed 
above.  The other executive officers have held the respective 
positions described below for at least the past five years:

P. D. Bewley joined the Company in February 1998 as Senior Vice 
President-General Counsel and Secretary.  From 1994 through 
January 1998, he was employed by Nova Care, Inc., as Senior Vice 
President-General Counsel and Secretary, and prior to that was 
employed by Johnson & Johnson as Associate General Counsel.

G. E. Johnston joined the Company in July 1981 as Regional Sales 
Manager-Special Markets.  Prior to his election as Group Vice 
President effective July 1, 1996, he was Vice President-Kingsford 
Products from November 17, 1993 through June 1996, Vice President-
Corporate Development from June 1992 through November 16, 1993, 
Director of Corporate Development from 1991 through May 1992, and 
Director of Business Development from September 1989 through 1991.

K. M. Rose joined the Company in 1978 as a Financial Analyst.  
Prior to her election as Group Vice President-Finance and 
Chief Financial Officer effective December 1, 1997, she was 
Vice President-Treasurer from July 1992 through November 1997 
and Controller, Household Products from July 1988 through 
July 1992. 

C. T. Alcantara joined the Company in 1992 as Area General 
Manager-Latin America.  Prior to his election as Vice President-
Worldwide Business Development effective June 1, 1998, he was 
Vice President-Latin America from July 1, 1996 though May 1998.  
He left the Company briefly from December 8, 1995 through 
March 31, 1996.
   
R. H. Bolte joined the Company in April 1982.  Prior to his 
election as Vice President-Corporate Marketing Services in 
July 1995, he was Director of Advertising and Promotion from 
June 1993 through June 1995 and Director of Media Services 
from May 1982 through May 1993.

R. T. Conti joined the Company in 1982 as Associate Region 
Sales Manager, Household Products.  Prior to his election as 
Vice President-Kingsford Products effective July 1, 1996, he 
was Vice President-International from June 1992 through June 
1996, Area General Manager-International for Europe, Middle 
East and Africa from 1990 through May 1992 and Manager of 
Sales Planning for Household Products from 1987 through 1990.

C. M. Couric joined the Company in 1973 as a brand assistant 
in the Household Products marketing organization.  Prior to 
his election in July 1995 as Vice President-Brita Products, 
he had served as Director, Brita Operations from 1988 through 
June 1995 and as a Manager of Business Development from 1984 
through 1988.  

S. D. House joined the Company in 1983 as a staff accountant, 
and was elected Vice President-Treasurer effective December 1, 
1997.  Prior to that, he had served as Director of Finance for 
the international business and also had held various positions 
in auditing, financial analysis and forecasting.

R. C. Klaus joined the Company in 1977 as Regional Sales Manager 
(Baltimore) for the Company's household products business.  
Prior to his election as Vice President-Corporate Administration 
in November 1995, he was Vice President-Clorox Professional 
Products from March 1994 through October 1995, and Vice President-
Food Service Products from May 1990 through March 1994.

L. S. Peiros joined the Company in 1982 and was elected Vice 
President-Household Products effective June 1, 1998.  Prior 
to that, he had served as Vice President-Food Products from 
July 1995 until election to his current position, and from 
September 1993 until July 1995 he served as Vice President-
Corporate Marketing Services.  From June 1992 through August 
1993 he was Director of Marketing-Household Products and from 
August 1991 through June 1992 he was Director of Marketing-
Kingsford Products.  Prior to that he had served in various 
marketing positions in both Household Products and Kingsford 
Products.

G. R. Savage joined the Company in 1983 as an Associate 
Marketing Manager, and was elected Vice President-Food 
Products effective December 1, 1997.  Prior to that, he 
had served as Director of Marketing for the household products 
business from 1993.

D. G. Simpson joined the Company in 1979 in the brand 
management function, and was elected Vice President-Strategy 
and Planning effective December 1, 1997.  Prior to that, he 
had served as  head of corporate strategic planning.

K. R. Tandowsky joined the Company in 1981 as a staff accountant 
and was elected Vice President-Information Services effective 
February 7, 1998.  Prior to that, he had served as Director 
of Finance for the Kingsford products business from 1994 and 
Director of Corporate Finance, Treasury from 1992.

F. A. Tataseo joined the Company in October 1994 as Vice 
President-Sales.  Previously, he was employed by The 
Pillsbury Company (Division of Grand Metropolitan Inc.) as 
Vice President, Sales (March - September 1994), and as Vice 
President, Direct Sales Force (June 1993 - February 1994); 
and by The Procter & Gamble Company as Sales Merchandising 
Division Manager, Soap Sector (May 1992 - May 1993); as 
Division Sales Manager, Laundry Products Category (November 
1990 - April 1993); and as Division Sales Manager, Fabric 
Care Category (July 1988 - October 1990).

S. A. Weiss joined the Company in 1994 as an area general 
manager for the Pacific Rim business, and held the position 
of Area General Manager Asia-Middle East before being elected 
Vice President-Asia Middle East effective June 1, 1998.  
Prior to that, he had been employed by Bristol Myers Squibb 
in international and domestic marketing assignments.


PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED 
STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

(a)  MARKET INFORMATION.

The principal markets for Clorox Common Stock are the 
New York Stock Exchange and the Pacific  Exchange.  The 
high and low sales prices quoted for New York Stock 
Exchange-Composite Transactions Report for each quarterly 
period during the past two fiscal years appears under 
"Quarterly Data," on page 48 of the Annual Report, 
incorporated herein by this reference, and on July 31, 
1998, the closing price for the Company's stock was $102.75 
per share.

(b)  HOLDERS.

The approximate number of record holders of Clorox Common 
Stock as of July 31, 1998 was 13,752 based on information 
provided by the Company's transfer agent.  

(c)  DIVIDENDS.

The amount of quarterly dividends paid with respect to 
Clorox Common Stock during the past two fiscal years appears 
under "Quarterly Data," on page 48 of the Annual Report, 
incorporated herein by this reference.

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

This information appears under "Five-Year Financial Summary," 
on page 49 of the Annual Report, incorporated herein by this
reference. 

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL 
CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION

This information appears under "Management's Discussion and 
Analysis,"on  pages 31 through 34 of the Annual Report, 
incorporated herein by this reference.  

ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT 
MARKET RISK

This information appears under "Market-Sensitive Derivatives 
and Financial Instruments" in the "Management's Discussion 
and Analysis," on pages 32-33 of the Annual Report, incorporated 
herein by this reference.

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

These statements and data appear on pages 34 through 48 of 
the Annual Report, incorporated herein by this reference.

ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON 
ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.


PART III

ITEM l0.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Information regarding each nominee for election as a director, 
including those who are executive officers of the Company, 
appears under "Nominees for Election as Directors" of the 
definitive Proxy Statement of the Company, which will be filed 
with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission 
within 120 days after the end of the registrant's fiscal year 
ended June 30, 1998 ("Proxy Statement"), incorporated herein 
by this reference.

Pursuant to Instruction 3 to Item 401(b) of Regulation S-K, 
information regarding the executive officers of the registrant 
is reported in Part I of this Report.

The information required by Item 405 of Regulation S-K appears 
under "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance" 
of the Proxy Statement, incorporated herein by this reference.

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information required by Item 402 of Regulation S-K appears 
under "Organization of the Board of Directors,"  "Summary 
Compensation Table," "Options and Stock Appreciation Rights," 
"Comparative Stock Performance," "Compensation  Interlocks and 
Insider Participation," and "Pension Benefits" of the Proxy 
Statement, all incorporated herein by this reference.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND 
MANAGEMENT

(a)  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS.

Information concerning the only entity or person known to the 
Company to be the beneficial owner of more than 5% of its 
Common Stock appears under "Beneficial Ownership of Voting 
Securities" of the Proxy Statement, incorporated herein by 
this reference.

(b)  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF MANAGEMENT.

Information concerning the beneficial ownership of the 
Company's Common Stock by each nominee for election as a 
director  and by all directors and executive officers as a 
group appears under "Beneficial Ownership of Voting Securities" 
of the Proxy Statement,  incorporated herein by this reference.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

Information concerning transactions with directors, 
nominees for election as directors, management and the 
beneficial owner of more than 5% of the Company's Common 
Stock appears under "Certain Relationships and Transactions" 
of the Proxy Statement, incorporated herein by this reference. 
PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND 
REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)(1)     Financial Statements:                           Page 

     Financial Statements and Independent Auditors'        Copy
     Report included in the Annual Report, incorporated    Included
     herein by this reference:

          Statements of Consolidated Earnings for the years
          ended June 30, 1998, l997 and l996

          Consolidated Balance Sheets, June 30, 1998 and l997

          Statements of Consolidated Stockholders' Equity for
          the years ended June 30, 1998, l997 and l996

          Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows for the years
          ended June 30, 1998, l997 and l996

          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

          Independent Auditors' Report

          Quarterly Data

      (2)       Financial Statement Schedules have been 
                omitted because of the absence of conditions
                under which they are required, or because the 
                information is shown elsewhere in this 
                Form 10-K. 

      (3)       Executive Compensation Plans and Arrangements:

          Long-Term Compensation Program dated October 21, 
          1987, amended 11/17/93 (Exhibit 10(ii) to the 
          Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended 
          June 30, 1994) 

          Officer Employment Agreement (form) (Exhibit 
          10(xi) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for 
          the year ended June 30, 1996)

          Officer Change of Control Employment Agreement 
         (form) (Exhibit 10(xii) to the Annual Report on 
          Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 1996)

          Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan dated 
          July 17, 1991 (Exhibit 10(x) to the Annual 
          Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 
          1993)

          Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan (Exhibit 
          10(xiii) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for 
          the year ended June 30, 1996)

          The Clorox Company 1995 Performance Unit Plan 
          (Exhibit 10(xiv) to the Annual Report on Form 
          10-K for the year ended June 30, 1996)

          The Clorox Company 1996 Stock Incentive Plan 
          (Exhibit 10(xv) to the Annual Report on Form 
          10-K for the year ended June 30, 1996)



          The Clorox Company 1996 Executive Incentive 
          Compensation Plan (Exhibit 10(xvi) to the 
          Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended 
          June 30, 1996)

          The Clorox Company Value Sharing Plan, formerly 
          The Clorox Company Tax Reduction Investment Plan 
          (Exhibit 4.3 to Amendment No. 2 dated July 12, 1996 
          to Registration Statement on Form S-8 No. 33-41131 
          dated June 10, 1991)

          The Clorox Company Value Sharing Plan for Puerto 
          Rico (Exhibit 4 to Registration Statement on 
          Form S-8 No. 333-16969 dated November 27, 1996)

          The Clorox Company Independent Directors' Stock 
          Based Compensation Plan (Exhibit 10 (xix) to the 
          Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 
          30, 1997)

(b)     Current Reports on Form 8-K during the fourth quarter 
        of fiscal year 1998:

          None.

(c)     Exhibits:

          Index to Exhibits follows.

(d)     (Not applicable)

Index to Exhibits

    (3)  (i)     Restated Certificate of Incorporation (filed as 
                 Exhibit 4.1 to Registration Statement on Form S-8 
                 No. 333-44675 dated January 22, 1998, incorporated herein
                 by this reference)

          (ii)   Bylaws (restated) of the Company (filed as Exhibit 3(ii) 
                 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended 
                 June 30, 1998)

    (4)  (i)     Form of Indenture between the Company and Wachovia 
                 Bank & Trust Company, N.A. as Trustee, regarding 
                 $200,000,000 in 8.8% Notes due 2001 (filed as 
                 Exhibit 4 to Registration Statement on Form S-3 
                 No. 33-4083 dated May 24, 1991, 
                 incorporated herein by this reference)

         (ii)    Prospectus Supplement (to Prospectus dated July 
                 9, 1991) giving terms of the Indenture referenced 
                 in Exhibit 4 (i) above  (filed on July 18, 1991, 
                 supplementing the Registration Statement on Form S-3 
                 No. 33-4083 dated May 24, 1991, and incorporated 
                 herein by this reference)

   (10)          Material contracts:

        (i)      Long-Term Compensation Program dated October 21, 1987 
                 (Amended 11/17/93) (filed as Exhibit 10(ii) to the 
                 Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 
                 1994, incorporated herein by this reference)

        (ii)     Agreement between Henkel KGaA and the Company dated 
                 June l8, l981 (filed as Exhibit (l0)(v) to Form 8 
                 dated August 11, l983, incorporated herein by this 
                 reference)

        (iii)   Agreement between Henkel GmbH (now Henkel KGaA) and 
                 the Company dated July 3l, l974 (filed as Exhibit 
                 (l0)(vi) to Form 8 dated August 11, l983, incorporated 
                 herein by this reference)

        (iv)     Agreement between Henkel KGaA and the Company dated 
                 November l6, 1981 (filed as Exhibit (l0)(vii) to 
                 Form 8 dated August 11, l983, incorporated herein 
                 by this reference)

        (v)      Agreement between Henkel KGaA and the Company dated 
                 July 16, 1986 (filed as Exhibit B to Current Report 
                 on Form 8-K for March 19, 1987, incorporated herein 
                 by this reference)       

        (vi)     Agreement between Henkel KGaA and the Company dated 
                 March 18, 1987 (filed as Exhibit A to Current Report 
                 on Form 8-K for March 19, 1987, incorporated herein 
                 by this reference)

       (vii)     Agreement between Henkel KGaA and the Company dated 
                 January 16, 1992 (filed as Exhibit 10(xi) to the 
                 Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 
                 1992, incorporated herein by this reference)

       (viii)    Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan dated July 17, 
                 1991 (filed as Exhibit 10(x) to the Annual Report on 
                 Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 1993, incorporated 
                 herein by this reference)






       (ix)      1993 Directors' Stock Option Plan dated November 17, 
                 1993 (filed as Exhibit 10(xi) to the Annual 
                 Report on Form 10-K for the year ended 
                 June 30, 1994, incorporated herein by this 
                 reference)

       (x)       Officer Employment Agreement (form) (filed as 
                 Exhibit 10(xi) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for 
                 the year ended June 30, 1996, incorporated herein by 
                 this reference)

       (xi)      Officer Change of Control Employment Agreement (form) 
                 (filed as Exhibit 10(xii) to the Annual Report on Form 
                 10-K for the year ended June 30, 1996, incorporated 
                 herein by this reference)

       (xii)     Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan (filed as 
                 Exhibit 10(xiii) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for 
                 the year ended June 30, 1996, incorporated herein 
                 by this reference)

       (xiii)    The Clorox Company 1995 Performance Unit Plan  
                 (filed as Exhibit 10(xiv) to the Annual Report on Form 
                 10-K for the year ended June 30, 1996, incorporated 
                 herein by this reference)

       (xiv)     The Clorox Company 1996 Stock Incentive Plan (filed 
                 as Exhibit 10(xv) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K 
                 for the year ended June 30, 1996, incorporated herein 
                 by this reference)

       (xv)      The Clorox Company 1996 Executive Incentive 
                 Compensation Plan  (filed as Exhibit 10(xvi) to the 
                 Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 
                 1996, incorporated herein by this reference) 

       (xvi)     The Clorox Company Value Sharing Plan, formerly The 
                 Clorox Company Tax Reduction Investment Plan (Exhibit 
                 4.3 to Amendment No. 2 dated July 12, 1996 to 
                 Registration Statement on Form S-8 No. 33-41131 
                 dated June 10, 1991, incorporated herein by this
                 reference)

       (xvii)    The Clorox Company Value Sharing Plan for Puerto 
                 Rico (Exhibit 4 to Registration Statement on Form 
                 S-8 No. 333-16969 dated November 27, 1996, 
                 incorporated herein by this reference)

       (xviii)   The Clorox Company Independent Directors' 
                 Stock-Based Compensation Plan (filed as 
                 Exhibit 10 (xix) to the Annual Report on Form 
                 10-K for the year ended June 30, 1997, incorporated 
                 herein by this reference)

     (13)     Excerpts of 1998 Annual Report to Stockholders

     (21)     Subsidiaries of the Company 

     (23)     Independent Auditors' Consent

     (24)     Power of Attorney (see pages 16-17)

     (27)     Financial Data Schedule



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section l3 or l5(d) of the 
Securities Exchange Act of l934, the registrant has duly 
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the 
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                      THE CLOROX COMPANY
            
                                      
Date:  September 16, 1998             By: /s/G. C. Sullivan
                                      G. C. Sullivan, Chairman of 
                                      the Board and Chief 
                                      Executive Officer 


KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose 
signature appears below constitutes and appoints 
Peter D. Bewley, Karen M. Rose, and Henry J. Salvo, Jr., 
jointly and severally, attorneys-in-fact and agents, 
with full power of substitution, for her or him in any 
and all capacities to sign any and all amendments to 
this Form 10-K, and to file the same and all exhibits 
thereto, and other documents in connection therewith, 
with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby 
ratifying and confirming all that each of said 
attorneys-in-fact and agents, and his or their substitute 
or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by 
virtue hereof.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange 
Act of l934, this report has been signed below by the 
following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the 
capacities and on the dates indicated.







