
10-K
FORM 10-K TEXT



               UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                          WASHINGTON, D.C.  20549

                                FORM 10-K
(Mark One)

[x]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 1996

OR  [ ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF 
THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the transmission period from                to              
                                 --------------    -------------

                     Commission file number 1-07151

                          THE CLOROX COMPANY
           (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

   DELAWARE                                       31-0595760   
(State or other jurisdiction of               (I.R.S. Employer
 incorporation or organization)               Identification No.)

1221 Broadway, Oakland, CA                        94612-1888
(Address of principal executive offices)          (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number,                 (510) 271-7000
 including area code  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:   
                                          Name of each exchange 
Title of each class                         on which registered 
- ------------------------                  ------------------------
Common Stock, $1 par value                New York Stock Exchange
                                          Pacific Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  NONE.

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all 
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months 
(or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to 
file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing 
requirements for the past 90 days. 
Yes  X        No     
    ---          ---

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers 
pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, 
and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's 
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements 
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any 
amendment to this Form 10-K.[  ]

Aggregate market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates 
of the registrant at July 31, 1996: $4,682,914,521.  
Number of shares of common stock outstanding at July 31, 1996:  51,531,384.

                     DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the registrant's Annual Report to Stockholders 
for the Year Ended June 30, 1996 are incorporated by reference 
into Parts I, II and IV of this Report.  Portions of the 
registrant's definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual 
Meeting of Stockholders to be held on November 20, 1996, 
which will be filed with the United States Securities and 
Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of the 
registrant's fiscal year ended June 30, 1996, are incorporated 
by reference into Part III of this Report.



PART I

ITEM l.  BUSINESS  
- -------------------

(a)  GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS.

The Company (the term "Company" as used herein includes the 
registrant identified on the facing sheet, The Clorox Company, 
and its subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise) 
was originally founded in Oakland, California in 1913 as the 
Electro-Alkaline Company.  It was reincorporated as Clorox 
Chemical Corporation in 1922, as Clorox Chemical Co. in 1928, 
and as The Clorox Company (an Ohio corporation) in 1957, 
when the business was acquired by The Procter & Gamble Company.  
The Company was fully divested by The Procter & Gamble Company 
in 1969 and, as an independent company, was reincorporated in 
1973 in California as The Clorox Company.  In 1986, the 
Company was reincorporated in Delaware.

The Clorox Company Annual Report for the Year Ended June 30, 
1996 ("Annual Report") to its stockholders is included in this 
Form 10-K.  Portions of the Annual Report are incorporated 
herein by specific reference.

During fiscal year 1996, the Company continued to focus on 
expanding its domestic business, through internal development 
of new products and line extensions of existing products.  
The Company introduced 14 new products in the U.S. during 
fiscal year 1996.  It also continued its strategy of considering 
strategic acquisitions and, in that regard, acquired the 
"Black Flag" brand of aerosol insecticides and the "Lestoil" 
brand of home cleaning products during fiscal year 1996.  
Additionally, the Company  acquired from Rhone-Poulenc exclusive 
rights to a new active ingredient, Fipronil, for use in the U.S. 
and many international consumer insecticide markets.  
An application for the registration of Fipronil with the U.S. 
Environmental Protection Agency has been filed.

Internationally, the Company continued the implementation of 
its strategy of expanding its laundry, household cleaning and 
insecticide businesses to markets where these categories are 
not yet fully developed, but where high potential exists.  
The Company made three international acquisitions in fiscal 
year 1996 and increased its ownership in one additional business.
In addition, the Company introduced 20 new products or line 
extensions in previously established international operations.

(b)  FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT INDUSTRY SEGMENTS.

The Company's operations are predominantly in one segment -- 
non-durable household consumer products.  Such operations include 
the production and marketing of non-durable consumer products 
sold primarily through grocery and other retail stores.  
Financial information for the last three fiscal years attributable 
to the Company's operations is set forth in the Consolidated 
Financial Statements, pages 24 through 35 of the Annual Report, 
incorporated herein by this reference. 

(c)  NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS.

PRINCIPAL PRODUCTS.  Products currently marketed in the United 
States and certain foreign countries are listed on the inside back 
cover (page 41) of the Annual Report, incorporated herein by this 
reference.

PRINCIPAL MARKETS - METHODS OF DISTRIBUTION.  Most non-durable 
household consumer products are nationally advertised and sold 
within the United States to grocery stores through a network of 
brokers, and to mass merchandisers, warehouse clubs, military and 
other retail stores primarily through a direct sales force.  The 
Company also sells, within the United States, institutional 
versions of specialty food and non-food products.  Outside the 
United States, the Company sells consumer products through 
subsidiaries, licensees, distributors and joint venture 
arrangements with local partners.

SOURCES AND AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIALS.  The Company has 
obtained ample supplies of all required raw materials and 
packaging supplies, which, with a few exceptions, were available 
from a wide variety of sources during fiscal year 1996.  
Contingency plans have been developed for single sourced 
supplier materials.  No supply problems are presently anticipated.

PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS.  Although some products are covered by 
patents, the Company does not believe that patents, patent 
licenses or similar arrangements are material to its business.  
Most of the Company's brand name consumer products are protected 
by registered trademarks.  Its brand names and trademarks are 
extremely important to its business and the Company pursues a 
course of vigorous action against apparent infringements.

SEASONALITY.  The only portions of the operations of the Company which 
have any significant degree of seasonality are the marketing of 
charcoal briquets and insecticides.  Most sales of these product lines 
occur in the third and fourth fiscal quarters.  Working capital to 
carry inventories built up in the off-season and to extend terms to 
customers is generally provided by internally generated funds plus 
commercial paper lines of credit.

CUSTOMERS AND ORDER BACKLOG.  During fiscal years 1994, 1995 
and 1996, revenue from the Company's sales of its products to 
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its affiliated companies was 12%, 13% 
and 14%, respectively, of the Company's gross consolidated revenues.  
Except for this relationship, the Company is not dependent upon 
any other single customer or a few customers.  Order backlog is 
not a significant factor in the Company's business.  

RENEGOTIATION.  None of the Company's operations is subject to 
renegotiation or termination at the election of the Federal 
government.

COMPETITION.  The markets for consumer products are highly 
competitive and most of the Company's products compete with 
other nationally advertised brands within each category, and 
with "private label" brands and "generic" non-branded products 
of grocery chains and wholesale cooperatives.  Competition is 
encountered from similar and alternative products, many of 
which are produced and marketed by major national concerns 
having financial resources greater than those of the Company.  
Depending on the competitor, the Company's products compete 
with competitive products on price, quality or other benefits 
to consumers.

A newly introduced consumer product (whether improved or newly 
developed) usually encounters intense competition requiring 
substantial expenditures for advertising and sales promotion.  
If a product gains consumer acceptance, it normally requires 
continuing advertising and promotional support to maintain 
relative market position.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT.  The Company's operations incurred 
expenses of approximately $45,821,000 in fiscal year 1996, 
$44,819,000 in fiscal year 1995, and  $44,558,000 in fiscal year 
1994 on research activities relating to the development of new 
products or the maintenance and improvement of existing products.  
None of such research activity was customer sponsored.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS.  The Company does not anticipate 
making material capital expenditures in the future for 
environmental control facilities or to comply with environmental 
laws and regulations.  However, in general, the Company does 
anticipate spending increasing amounts annually for facility 
upgrades and for environmental programs.  The amount of capital 
expenditures for environmental compliance was not material 
in fiscal year 1996 and is not expected to be material in 
the next fiscal year.

In addition, the Company is involved in certain other 
environmental matters, as follows: 

(i)     The Company sold its architectural coatings business in 
fiscal year 1990.  In connection with the disposition of those 
manufacturing facilities, the Company retained responsibility 
for certain environmental obligations.  The financial reserve 
established at the time of the sale is expected to be adequate 
to cover the financial responsibilities for environmental matters 
which may arise in the future.

(ii)     The Company has been named as a potentially responsible 
party ("PRP") by the Environmental Protection Agency pursuant to 
the Spill Compensation and Control Act, the Sanitary Landfill 
Closure and Contingency Fund Act, and a section of the Solid 
Waste Management Act, for a site in New Jersey.  Based on the 
Company's experience and because the Company's level of involvement 
is extremely limited, the Company does not expect that this matter 
will represent a material cost to the Company in the future.  The 
Company settled a similar matter for another site in New Jersey 
during fiscal year 1995 and does not expect such settlement to 
represent a material cost in the future.  

(iii)     The Company operates a water treatment operation at its 
former Oakland, California manufacturing location and may undertake 
additional remediation in the future to recondition such property 
for sale.   A financial reserve established in an earlier year is 
considered by management to be adequate to cover the future costs 
or liability in connection with this manufacturing location.

(iv)     The Company has announced that it contemplates the sale of 
its Frederick, Maryland manufacturing facility.  Customary 
environmental investigations are being conducted in conjunction 
with the contemplated sales of these sites.  The Company does not 
expect that material environmental liabilities will be identified, 
and accordingly has not recorded any loss contingencies.  

(v)     A former subsidiary of the Company has been named as a PRP 
by the Environmental Protection Agency for a site in Tulalip, 
Washington in connection with the Company's former architectural 
coatings business.  Pursuant to the terms of the agreement by which 
the Company sold such architectural coatings business, the Company 
has been responding to this matter.  Based on the Company's experience 
and because the Company's level of involvement is extremely limited, 
the Company does not expect that this matter will represent a 
material cost to the Company in the future.

(vi)     An explosion attributed to methane caused property damage and 
personal injury in a residential area near a site formerly operated by 
a subsidiary of the Company in Eaton Estates, Michigan.  The 
Environmental Protection Agency is investigating and has served the 
Company with a Request for Information under CERCLA Sec. 104(e).  The 
result of the investigation is to be determined and the Company's 
potential liability is unknown at this time.

(vii)     The Company has been served with a Notice of Violation at 
the site operated by its subsidiary at Bedford Park, near Chicago, 
Illinois.   Based on the Company's experience, the Company does not 
expect that this matter will represent a material cost to the Company 
in the future. 

Although the potential cost to the Company related to the above 
ongoing environmental matters is uncertain due to such factors 
as: the unknown magnitude of possible pollution and clean-up 
costs; the complexity and evolving nature of governmental laws 
and regulations and their interpretations; and the timing, varying 
costs and effectiveness of alternative clean-up technologies; 
based on its experience and without offsetting for expected 
insurance recoveries or discounting for present value, the Company 
does not expect that such costs individually and  in the 
aggregate will represent a material cost to the Company or 
affect its competitive position.

NUMBER OF PERSONS EMPLOYED.  At the end of fiscal year 1996, 
approximately 5,300 persons were employed by the Company's 
continuing operations.

(d)  FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC OPERATIONS 
AND EXPORT SALES.

Net sales, pretax earnings and identifiable assets related to 
foreign operations and export sales are 13%, 4% and 28%, 
respectively for fiscal year 1996.  See Note 17 of Notes to 
Consolidated Financial Statements, page 35 of the Annual Report, 
incorporated herein by this reference.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

PRODUCTION FACILITIES.  The Company operates production and major 
warehouse facilities for its operations in 18 locations throughout 
the United States, and in 24 locations internationally.  The 
vast majority of the space is owned.  Some space, mainly for 
warehousing, is leased.   The Company acquired a production 
facility in Argentina in August 1995.  No facilities were either 
closed or sold during fiscal year 1996.  The Company considers its 
manufacturing and warehousing facilities to be adequate to support 
its business.

OFFICES AND TECHNICAL CENTER.  The Company's general office 
building is owned and is located in Oakland, California.  The 
Company's Technical Center and Data Center are owned and are 
located in Pleasanton, California.  Leased sales and other 
office facilities are located at a number of manufacturing 
and other locations.

ENCUMBRANCES.  None of the Company's owned facilities are 
encumbered to secure debt owed by the Company, except that the 
manufacturing facilities in Wheeling, Illinois and Belle, 
Missouri secure industrial revenue bond indebtedness incurred 
in relation to the construction or upgrade thereof.  

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

None.


ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

None.





There is no family relationship between any of the above 
named persons, or between any of such persons and any of the 
directors of the Company or any persons nominated for election 
as a director of the Company.  See Item 10 of Part III of 
this Form 10-K.

The current term of office of each officer is from the date of 
the officer's election to the date of the first Board of 
Directors' meeting following the next Annual Meeting of 
Stockholders or until the officer's successor is elected, 
subject to the power of the Board of Directors to remove 
any officer at any time.  

W. F. Ausfahl, R. A. Llenado and H .J. Salvo have been 
employed by the Company for at least the past five years in 
the same respective positions as listed above.  The other 
executive officers have held the respective positions 
described below for at least the past five years:

G. C. Sullivan joined the Company in 1971 in the sales 
department of Household Products.  Prior to his election as 
Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President 
in 1992, he was Group Vice President from 1989 through 1992 
and Vice President-Household Products from 1984 through 1989.

E. A. Cutter joined the Company in June 1983 as Vice 
President-General Counsel and Secretary.  He held this 
position through June 1, 1992, when he was elected Senior 
Vice President-General Counsel and Secretary, with additional 
responsibility for the Company's government affairs and 
community affairs functions.

G. E. Johnston joined the Company in July 1981 as Regional 
Sales Manager-Special Markets.  Prior to his election as 
Group Vice President effective July 1, 1996, he was Vice 
President-Kingsford Products from November 17, 1993 through 
June 1996, Vice President-Corporate Development from June 
1992 through November 16, 1993, Director of Corporate 
Development from 1991 through May 1992, and Director of 
Business Development from September 1989 through 1991.

P. N. Louras, Jr. joined the Company in April 1980 as Manager, 
Analysis and Control, Kingsford Products.  Prior to his 
election as Group Vice President effective June 1, 1992, he was 
Vice President-International from August 1990 through May 1992, 
Vice President-Controller from July 1988 through August 1990 
and Controller, Household Products from 1987 through July 1988.

D. C. Murray joined the Company in February 1978 as Region 
Manager - Latin America and Asia.  Prior to his election as 
Group Vice President effective July 1, 1996, he was Vice 
President - Household Products Division from November 1994 
through June 30, 1996, Vice President - Household Products from 
April 1989 through November 1994, Vice President - International 
from November 1984 through April 1989, and Vice President - 
Latin America and Asia from April 1982 through November 1984.

C. T. Alcantara joined the Company in 1992 as Area General 
Manager - Latin America.  Prior to his election as Vice 
President - Latin America effective July 1, 1996, he left 
the Company briefly from December 8, 1995 through March 31, 
1996, when he returned as Area General Manager - Latin America.
   
A. W. Biebl joined the Company in 1981 as Manufacturing Manager, 
Food Service.  Prior to his election as Vice President-
Manufacturing, Engineering and Distribution effective June 1, 
1992, he was Vice President-Kingsford Products from 1989 
through May 1992 and Vice President-Food Service Products from 
1985 through 1989.

R. H. Bolte joined the Company in April 1982.  Prior to his 
election as Vice President-Corporate Marketing Services in July 
1995, he was Director of Advertising and Promotion from June 
1993 through June 1995 and Director of Media Services from May 
1982 through May 1993.

J. M. Brady joined the Company in 1976 as a brand assistant in 
Marketing, Household Products.  From November 1991 until her 
election as Vice President-Human Resources in September 1993, 
she was Vice President-Corporate Marketing Services.  She was 
director of Corporate Marketing Services from August 1991 
through November 1991, Director of Marketing, Kingsford Products 
from 1989 through August 1991 and held various marketing 
positions for Household Products and Kingsford Products from 1987 
through 1989.

J. O. Cole joined the Company in 1973 as an attorney in its Legal 
Services Department.  He has served in numerous capacities in 
that Department and was named Associate General Counsel in 1992.
In November 1992, he was elected to the position of Vice 
President-Corporate Affairs.

R. T. Conti joined the Company in 1982 as Associate Region Sales 
Manager, Household Products.  Prior to his election as Vice 
President-Kingsford Products  effective July 1, 1996, he was 
Vice President-International from June 1992 through June 1996, 
Area General Manager-International for Europe, Middle East and 
Africa from 1990 through May 1992 and Manager of Sales Planning 
for Household Products from 1987 through 1990.

C. M. Couric joined the Company in 1973 as a brand assistant in 
the Household Products marketing organization.  Prior to his 
election in July 1995 as Vice President-Brita Products, he had 
served as Director, Brita Operations from 1988 through June 1995 
and as a Manager of Business Development from 1984 through 1988.  

R. C. Klaus joined the Company in 1977 as Regional Sales 
Manager (Baltimore) for the Company's Household Products 
Business.  Prior to his election as Vice President - 
Corporate Administration in November 1995, he was Vice 
President - Clorox Professional Products from March 1994 
through October 1995, and Vice President - Food Service 
Products from May 1990 through March 1994.

L. S. Peiros joined the Company in 1982 and was elected Vice 
President-Food Products Division effective July 1995.  From 
September 1993 until his election to his current position he
was Vice President-Corporate Marketing Services.  From June 
1992 through August 1993 he was Director of Marketing-
Household Products and from August 1991 through June 1992 
he was Director of Marketing-Kingsford Products.  Prior to 
that he had served in various marketing positions in both 
Household Products and Kingsford Products.

K. M. Rose joined the Company in 1978 as a financial analyst.  
Prior to her election as Vice President-Treasurer effective 
July 15, 1992, she was Controller, Household Products from 
July 1988 through July 1992.  Beginning October 1, 1994, she 
also assumed responsibility for the Company's investor 
relations and risk management functions.

B. A. Sudbury joined the Company in 1978 as Project Leader in 
Research and Development.  Prior to his election as Vice 
President-Research and Development effective June 1, 1992, 
he was Director of Research and Development, Household 
Products from 1985 through May 1992.

F. A. Tataseo joined the Company in October 1994 as Vice 
President-Sales.  Previously, he was employed by The 
Pillsbury Company (Division of Grand Metropolitan Inc.) as 
Vice President, Sales (March - September 1994), and as Vice 
President, Direct Sales Force (June 1993 - February 1994); 
and by The Procter & Gamble Company as Sales Merchandising 
Division Manager, Soap Sector (May 1992 - May 1993); as 
Division Sales Manager, Laundry Products Category (November 
1990 - April 1993); and as Division Sales Manager, Fabric 
Care Category (July 1988 - October 1990).

C. E. Williams joined the Company in May 1993 as Vice 
President-Information Services.  From 1987 until he joined 
the Company, Mr. Williams was Director of Information 
Services of the Fritz Companies, Inc.

PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED 
STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

(a)  MARKET INFORMATION.

The principal markets for Clorox Common Stock are the New York 
and Pacific Stock Exchanges.  The high and low sales prices 
quoted for New York Stock Exchange-Composite Transactions 
Report for each quarterly period during the past two fiscal 
years appears under "Quarterly Data," page 38 of the Annual 
Report, incorporated herein by this reference, and on 
July 31, 1996, the closing price for the Company's stock was 
$90.875 per share.

(b)  HOLDERS.

The approximate number of record holders of Clorox Common Stock 
as of July 31, 1996 was 13,009 based on information provided by 
the Company's transfer agent.  

(c)  DIVIDENDS.

The amount of quarterly dividends paid with respect to Clorox 
Common Stock during the past two fiscal years appears under 
"Quarterly Data," page 38 of the Annual Report, incorporated herein 
by this reference.

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

This information appears under "Financial Summary," pages 36 and 
37 of the Annual Report, incorporated herein by this reference. 

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL 
CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION

This information appears under "Management's Discussion and 
Analysis," pages 22 and 23 of the Annual Report, incorporated 
herein by this reference.  

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

These statements and data appear on pages 24 through 35 and 38 
of the Annual Report, incorporated herein by this reference.

ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON 
ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.

PART III

ITEM l0.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Information regarding each nominee for election as a director, 
including those who are executive officers of the Company, 
appears under "Nominees for Election as Directors" of the 
definitive Proxy Statement of the Company, which will be 
filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission 
within 120 days after the end of the registrant's fiscal year 
ended June 30, 1996 ("Proxy Statement"), incorporated herein 
by this reference.

Pursuant to Instruction 3 to Item 401(b) of Regulation S-K, 
information regarding the executive officers of the 
registrant is reported in Part I of this Report.

The information required by Item 405 of Regulation S-K appears 
under "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance" 
of the Proxy Statement, incorporated herein by this reference.

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information required by Item 402 of Regulation S-K appears 
under "Organization of the Board of Directors," "Employee 
Benefits and Management Compensation Committee Report on 
Compensation," "Summary Compensation Table," "Options and 
Stock Appreciation Rights," "Long-Term Incentive Plans," 
"Comparative Stock Performance," and "Pension Benefits" of 
the Proxy Statement, all incorporated herein by this reference.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND 
MANAGEMENT

(a)  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS.

Information concerning the only entity or person known to 
the Company to be the beneficial owner of more than 5% of 
its Common Stock appears under "Beneficial Ownership of 
Voting Securities" of the Proxy Statement, incorporated 
herein by this reference.

(b)  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF MANAGEMENT.

Information concerning the beneficial ownership of the 
Company's Common Stock by each nominee for election as 
a director appears under "Nominees for Election as 
Directors" of the Proxy Statement and by all directors 
and executive officers as a group appears under 
"Beneficial Ownership of Voting Securities" of the 
Proxy Statement, both incorporated herein by this 
reference.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

Information concerning transactions with directors, 
nominees for election as directors, management and the 
beneficial owner of more than 5% of the Company's 
Common Stock appears under "Beneficial Ownership of 
Voting Securities" of the Proxy Statement, incorporated 
herein by this reference. 

PART IV






SIGNATURES


KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose 
signature appears below constitutes and appoints 
Edward A. Cutter and Henry J. Salvo, Jr., jointly and 
severally, attorneys-in-fact and agents, with full power 
of substitution, for him in any and all capacities to 
sign any and all amendments to this Form 10-K, and to 
file the same and all exhibits thereto, and other 
documents in connection therewith, with the Securities 
and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming all 
that each of said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and his or 
their substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to 
be done by virtue hereof.

Pursuant to the requirements of Section l3 or l5(d) of the 
Securities Exchange Act of l934, the registrant has duly 
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the 
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                         THE CLOROX COMPANY   
Date:  September 18, 1996                By: /s/G. C. Sullivan 
                                            --------------------
                                            G. C. Sullivan, 
                                            Chairman of the Board
                                            and Chief Executive
                                            Officer 


Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 
l934, this report has been signed below by the following persons 
on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the 
dates indicated.


 


