
10-K
FORM 10-K TEXT & SCHEDULES


        UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                   WASHINGTON, D.C.  20549
                          FORM 10-K
(Mark One)
[x]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE 
     SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
     For the fiscal year ended June 30, 1994

OR

[ ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
    OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
    For the transmission period from _________________ 
    to _________________ 

Commission file number 1-07151

                    THE CLOROX COMPANY
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

        DELAWARE                              31-0595760
(State or other jurisdiction of            (I.R.S. Employer
 incorporation or organization)           Identification No.)

   1221 Broadway, Oakland, CA                 94612-1888
(Address of principal executive                (Zip Code)
   offices)

Registrant's telephone number,
 including area code                       (510) 271-7000

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b)
 of the Act:   
                                      Name of each exchange
   Title of each class                on which registered
- ------------------------              -----------------------
Common Stock, $1 par value            New York Stock Exchange
                                      Pacific Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g)
 of the Act:  NONE.

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed 
all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of 
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 
months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was 
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to 
such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes  X    No  

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers 
pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, 
and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's 
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements 
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any 
amendment to this Form 10-K.[  ]

Aggregate market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates 
of the registrant at July 29, 1994: $1,861,402,866.

Number of shares of common stock outstanding 
at July 29, 1994;  53,373,421.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the registrant's Annual Report to Stockholders 
for the Year Ended June 30, 1994 are incorporated by reference 
into Parts I, II and IV of this Report.  Portions of the 
registrant's definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual 
Meeting of Stockholders to be held on November 16, 1994, 
which will be filed with the United States Securities and 
Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of the 
registrant's fiscal year ended June 30, 1994, are 
incorporated by reference into Part III of this Report.





PART I

ITEM l.  BUSINESS

(a)  GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS.

The Company (the term "Company" as used herein includes the 
registrant identified on the facing sheet, The Clorox Company,
and its subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise) 
was originally founded in Oakland, California in 1913 as the 
Electro-Alkaline Company.  It was reincorporated as Clorox 
Chemical Corporation in 1922, as Clorox Chemical Co. in 
1928, and as The Clorox Company (an Ohio corporation) in 
1957, when the business was acquired by The Procter & 
Gamble Company.  The Company was fully divested by The 
Procter & Gamble Company in 1969 and, as an independent 
company, was reincorporated in 1973 in California as 
The Clorox Company.  In 1986, the Company was 
reincorporated in Delaware.

The Clorox Company Annual Report for the Year Ended 
June 30, 1994 ("Annual Report") to its stockholders is 
included in this Form l0-K.  Portions of the Annual Report 
are incorporated herein by specific reference.

During fiscal year 1994, the Company continued the 
implementation of a new strategy for its domestic 
business.  The process of divestiture of the Company's 
frozen food product lines and its bottled water 
business was completed.  In its continuing operations, 
the Company continued to focus on expanding the business 
through internal development of new products and line 
extensions of existing products.  The Company introduced 
14 new products in the U.S. during fiscal year 1994.  
It also continued its strategy of considering 
strategic acquisitions and, in that regard,  acquired 
S.O.S brand soap pads during the fiscal year.  In 
addition to the S.O.S domestic business, the S.O.S 
acquisition provided a major source of growth in the 
Company's Canadian operations.  

Internationally, the Company continued the implementation 
of its strategy of expanding its laundry, household 
cleaning and insecticide businesses to markets where 
these categories are not yet fully developed, but 
where high potential exists.  With Yuhan Corporation, 
the Company formed the joint venture Yuhan-Clorox Co., 
Inc., which is now the leading bleach producer in the Republic 
of Korea.  During fiscal year 1994, the Company made two 
acquisitions of bleach businesses in Chile and reached a 
definitive agreement to acquire the leading scrubber pad 
and stain remover business in Argentina, the acquisition of
which was completed in July 1994.  The Company is in the 
process of completing a merger of its Argentine subsidiaries, 
following the increase of the Company's ownership of its 
Argentine operations which occurred at the end of fiscal 
year 1993.

(b)  FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT INDUSTRY SEGMENTS.

The Company's operations are predominantly in one segment 
- -- non-durable household consumer products.  Such 
operations include the production and marketing of 
non-durable consumer products sold primarily through 
grocery and other retail stores.  Financial information 
for the last three fiscal years attributable to the 
Company's operations is set forth in the Consolidated 
Financial Statements, pages 20 through 29 of the 
Annual Report, incorporated herein by this reference.




(c)  NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS.

PRINCIPAL PRODUCTS.  Products currently marketed in the 
United States and certain foreign countries are listed 
on page 36 of the Annual Report, incorporated herein 
by this reference.

PRINCIPAL MARKETS - METHODS OF DISTRIBUTION.  Most 
non-durable household consumer products are 
nationally advertised and sold within the United 
States to grocery stores through a network of 
brokers that was reduced through consolidation during 
fiscal year 1994, and to mass merchandisers, warehouse clubs, 
military and other retail stores primarily through 
a direct sales force.  The Company also sells, 
within the United States, institutional versions of specialty 
food and non-food products.  Outside the United States, the 
Company sells consumer products through subsidiaries, 
licensees, distributors and joint venture arrangements 
with local partners.

SOURCES AND AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIALS.  The Company 
has obtained ample supplies of all required raw materials 
and packaging supplies, which, with a few exceptions, 
were available from a wide variety of sources during 
fiscal year 1994.  Contingency plans have been developed 
for single sourced supplier materials.  No supply problems 
are presently anticipated.

PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS.  Although some products are 
covered by patents, the Company does not believe that 
patents, patent licenses or similar arrangements are 
material to its business.  Most of the Company's brand 
name consumer products are protected by registered 
trademarks.  Its brand names and trademarks are extremely 
important to its business and the Company pursues a 
course of vigorous action against apparent infringements.

SEASONALITY.  The only portions of the operations of the 
Company which have any significant degree of seasonality 
are the marketing of charcoal briquets and insecticides.  
Most sales of these product lines occur in the third and 
fourth fiscal quarters.  Working capital to carry 
inventories built up in the off-season and to extend 
terms to customers is generally provided by internally 
generated funds plus commercial paper lines of credit.

CUSTOMERS AND ORDER BACKLOG.  During fiscal year 1994, 
revenue from the Company's sales of its products to 
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its affiliated companies 
exceeded 10% of the Company's gross consolidated 
revenues.  Except for this relationship, the Company is 
not dependent upon any other single customer or a 
few customers.  Order backlog is not a significant 
factor in the Company's business.

RENEGOTIATION.  None of the Company's operations is 
subject to renegotiation or termination at the election 
of the Federal government.

COMPETITION.  The markets for consumer products are highly 
competitive and most of the Company's products compete 
with other nationally advertised brands within each 
category, and with "private label" brands and "generic" 
non-branded products of grocery chains and wholesale 
cooperatives.  Competition is encountered from similar 
and alternative products, many of which are produced 
and marketed by major national concerns having financial 
resources greater than those of the Company.

A newly introduced consumer product (whether improved or 
newly developed) usually encounters intense competition 
requiring substantial expenditures for advertising and 
sales promotion.  If a product gains consumer acceptance, 
it normally requires continuing advertising and promotional 
support to maintain relative market position.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT.  The Company's operations 
incurred expenses of approximately $44,558,000 in fiscal 
year 1994, $42,445,000 in fiscal year 1993 and 
$42,052,000 in fiscal year 1992 on research activities 
relating to the development of new products or the maintenance 
and improvement of existing products.  None of such research 
activity was customer sponsored.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS.  The Company does not anticipate 
making material capital expenditures in the future for 
environmental control facilities or to comply with 
environmental laws and regulations.  However, in general, 
the Company does anticipate spending increasing amounts 
annually for facility upgrades and for environmental 
programs.  The amount of capital expenditures for 
environmental compliance was not material in fiscal 
year 1994 and is not expected to be material in the 
next fiscal year.

In addition, the Company is involved in certain 
other environmental matters, as follows:

(i)  The Company sold its architectural coatings business 
in fiscal year 1990.  In connection with the disposition 
of those manufacturing facilities, the Company retained 
responsibility for certain environmental obligations.  
The financial reserve established at the time of the 
sale is expected to be adequate to cover the financial 
responsibilities for environmental matters which may 
arise in the future.

(ii)  The Company has been named as a potentially 
responsible party ("PRP") by the Environmental Protection 
Agency pursuant to the Spill Compensation and Control 
Act, the Sanitary Landfill Closure and Contingency Fund 
Act, and a section of the Solid Waste Management Act, 
for two sites in New Jersey.  Based on the Company's 
experience and because the Company's level of 
involvement is extremely limited, the Company does not 
expect that these matters will represent a material 
cost to the Company in the future.

(iii)  The Company received a "No Further Action" 
letter regarding New Jersey Industrial Site Recovery 
Act requirements related to the sale of its Jersey 
City, New Jersey manufacturing facility, which occurred 
during fiscal year 1994.  The Company does not expect 
that the cost of any future environmental liability 
in connection with the sale of this facility will 
be material.

(iv)  The Company operates a water treatment 
operation at its former Oakland, California 
manufacturing location.  This operation will be 
an on-going cost for the foreseeable future.  A 
financial reserve established in an earlier year 
is considered by management to be adequate to 
cover the future costs of this water treatment 
operation.

(v)  During fiscal year 1994, the Company executed an 
"Administrative Order on Consent" indicating its 
willingness to participate in a "de minimis" 
settlement offer relating to its alleged involvement at 
the American Chemical Services site in Griffith, Indiana.  
The Company does not expect the settlement to represent 
a material cost in the future.

(vi)  The Company has been identified as a PRP by the 
Environmental Protection Agency for a site in Johnson 
County, Kansas.  The Company is currently negotiating a 
settlement of this matter, which is not expected to 
represent a material cost to the Company.

(vii)  The Company has incurred environmental remediation 
costs at one of its facilities in Chicago, Illinois, 
which are not material.  The Company is seeking 
reimbursement of all these costs from an adjacent 
property owner.

(viii)  The Company has announced that it contemplates 
the sale of its Dyersburg, Tennessee manufacturing facility 
and its Frederick, Maryland manufacturing facility.  
Customary environmental investigations are being conducted 
in conjunction with the contemplated sales of these sites.  
The Company does not expect that material environmental 
liabilities will be identified, and accordingly has not
recorded any loss contingencies.

(ix)  The Company has been named in a private action 
by a party seeking contribution by the Company for 
remediation costs relating to a site that the Company 
may have formerly been  associated with in Dickinson 
County, Michigan.  Although the parties are currently 
in the discovery process and the basis for the Company's 
potential liability has not yet been clearly 
identified,  the Company does not expect that this 
matter will represent a material cost in the future.

Although the potential cost to the Company related to 
the above ongoing environmental matters is uncertain 
due to such factors as: the unknown magnitude of possible 
pollution and clean-up costs; the complexity and evolving 
nature of governmental laws and regulations and their 
interpretations; and the timing, varying costs and 
effectiveness of alternative clean-up technologies; based 
on its experience and without offsetting for expected 
insurance recoveries or discounting for present value, 
the Company does not expect that such costs individually 
and in the aggregate will represent a material cost to 
the Company or affect its competitive position.

NUMBER OF PERSONS EMPLOYED.  At the end of fiscal year 1994, 
approximately 4,850 persons were employed by the Company's 
continuing operations.

(d)  FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC 
OPERATIONS AND EXPORT SALES.

Net sales, pretax earnings and identifiable assets 
related to foreign operations and export sales are 
each below l0% of the respective consolidated amounts 
for the Company for fiscal year 1994, have been below 
these levels for the two preceding fiscal years, but 
may not be indicative of future levels due to the 
Company's strategy to expand its international operations.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

PRODUCTION FACILITIES.  The Company operates production 
and major warehouse facilities for its operations in 
approximately 30 locations in the United States, Puerto Rico, 
Canada, Mexico, Argentina, Chile and the Republic of Korea.  
The vast majority of the space is owned.  Some space, 
mainly for warehousing, is leased.  The facility in Jersey 
City, New Jersey was sold during fiscal year 1994.  The 
Frederick, Maryland facility was closed in August 1994.  
As part of the acquisition of  S.O.S in fiscal year 1994, 
the Company acquired two facilities, one in the United States 
and the other in Canada.  The Canadian S.O.S facility is 
scheduled to be closed in fiscal year 1995.  The Company 
considers its manufacturing and warehousing facilities to 
be adequate to support its business.

OFFICES AND TECHNICAL CENTER.  The Company's general office 
building is owned and is located in Oakland, California.  The 
Company also occupies leased office space in Oakland one 
block from its general office building.  The Company's 
Technical Center and Data Center are owned and are located 
in Pleasanton, California.  Leased sales and other office 
facilities are located at a number of manufacturing and 
other locations.

ENCUMBRANCES.  None of the Company's owned facilities 
are encumbered to secure debt owed by the Company, except 
that the manufacturing facility in Wheeling, Illinois 
secures industrial revenue bond indebtedness incurred in 
relation to the construction thereof.

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

None.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF 
SECURITY HOLDERS

None.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The names, ages and current positions of the executive 
officers of the Company are set forth below:




There is no family relationship between any of the above 
named persons, or between any of such persons and any of 
the directors of the Company or any persons nominated 
for election as a director of the Company.  See Item 10 of 
Part III of this Form 10-K.

The current term of office of each officer is from the 
date of the officer's election to the date of the first 
Board of Directors' meeting following the next Annual 
Meeting of Stockholders or until the officer's successor 
is elected, subject to the power of the Board of Directors 
to remove any officer at any time.

W. F. Ausfahl and D.C. Murray have been employed by the 
Company for at least the past five years in the same 
respective positions as listed above.  The other executive 
officers have held the respective positions described below 
for at least the past five years:

G. C. Sullivan joined the Company in 1971 in the sales 
department of Household Products.  Prior to his election 
as Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and 
President in 1992, he was Group Vice President from 1989 
through 1992 and Vice President-Household Products from 
1984 through 1989.

E. A. Cutter joined the Company in June 1983 as Vice 
President-General Counsel and Secretary.  He held this 
position through June 1, 1992, when he was elected 
Senior Vice President-General Counsel and Secretary, 
with additional responsibility for the Company's 
government affairs and community affairs functions.

N. P. DeFeo joined the Company in June 1993 as Group Vice 
President-U.S. Operations.  Previously, he had been with 
The Procter & Gamble Company for 25 years.  His last position 
there was as Vice President and Managing Director of 
Worldwide Strategic Planning, Laundry and Cleaning Products.

R. A. Llenado joined the Company in September 1991 as Group 
Vice President.  Prior to joining the Company, he was Vice 
President, Research and Development, L & F Products, Inc. 
(formerly Lehn & Fink Products Group, a subsidiary of 
Eastman Kodak Co.) from 1988 to 1991. 

P. N. Louras, Jr. joined the Company in April 1980 as Manager, 
Analysis and Control, Kingsford Products.  Prior to his 
election as Group Vice President effective June 1, 1992, 
he was Vice President-International from August 1990 
through May 1992, Vice President-Controller from July 
1988 through August 1990 and Controller, Household 
Products from 1987 through July 1988.

A. W. Biebl joined the Company in 1981 as Manufacturing 
Manager, Food Service.  Prior to his election as Vice 
President-Manufacturing, Engineering and Distribution 
effective June 1, 1992, he was Vice President-Kingsford 
Products from 1989 through May 1992 and Vice President-Food 
Service Products from 1985 through 1989.

J. M. Brady joined the Company in 1976 as a brand assistant 
in Marketing, Household Products.  From November 1991 
until her election as Vice President-Human Resources in 
September 1993, she was Vice President-Corporate 
Marketing Services.  She was director of Corporate 
Marketing Services from August 1991 through November 
1991, Director of Marketing, Kingsford Products from 
1989 through August 1991 and held various marketing 
positions for Household Products and Kingsford 
Products from 1987 through 1989.

J. O. Cole joined the Company in 1973 as an attorney in 
its Legal Services Department.  He has served in 
numerous capacities in that Department and was named 
Associate General Counsel in 1992.  In November 1992, he 
was elected to the position of Vice President-Corporate 
Affairs.

R. T. Conti joined the Company in 1982 as Associate Region 
Sales Manager, Household Products.  Prior to his election 
as Vice President-International effective June 1, 1992, he 
was Area General Manager-International for Europe, Middle 
East and Africa from 1990 through May 1992 and Manager of 
Sales Planning for Household Products from 1987 through 1990.

G. E. Johnston joined the Company in July 1981 as Regional 
Sales Manager-Special Markets.  Prior to his election as 
Vice President-Kingsford Product Division effective 
November 17, 1993, he was Vice President-Corporate 
Development from June 1992 through November 16, 1993, 
and Director of Corporate Development from 1991 through 
May 1992, and Director of Business Development from 
September 1989 through 1991.

R. C. Klaus joined the Company in 1977 as Region Sales 
Manager-Household Products.  He was elected as Vice 
President-Food Service Products in May 1990 and his title 
was changed to Vice President-Professional Products in 
July 1993 when the Food Services division was renamed 
the Professional Products division; and he was General 
Manager-Food Service Products from May 1989 through 
May 1990.  

L. S. Peiros joined the Company in 1982 and was elected 
Vice President-Corporate Marketing Services effective 
September 1993.  From June 1992 until his election to 
his current position he was Director of Marketing-Household 
Products and from August 1991 through June 1992 he was 
Director of Marketing-Kingsford Products.  Prior to that 
he had served in various marketing positions in both 
Household Products and Kingsford Products.

J. D. M. Robertson joined the Company in 1977 as 
Marketing Manager of The Clorox Company of Canada, Ltd.  
Prior to his election as Vice President-Food Products 
Division effective November 17, 1993, he was Vice 
President-Kingsford Products from June 1992 through 
November 16, 1993, and Director of Marketing, Household 
Products from 1989 through May 1992.

K. M. Rose joined the Company in 1978 as a financial analyst.  
Prior to her election as Vice President-Treasurer effective 
July 15, 1992, she was Controller, Household Products from 
July 1988 through July 1992.  Beginning October 1, 1994, she 
will also have responsibility for the Company's investor 
relations and risk management functions.

H. J. Salvo, Jr. joined the Company in 1972 as a staff 
accountant.  Prior to his election as Vice President-Controller 
in November 1990, he was Director of Business Development 
from October 1989 through September 1990 and had served 
as Controller for three of the Company's operating units 
from 1983 through September 1989.

B. A. Sudbury joined the Company in 1978 as Project Leader 
in Research and Development.  Prior to his election as 
Vice President-Research and Development effective June 1, 
1992, he was Director of Research and Development, Household 
Products from 1985 through May 1992.

F. A. Tataseo will join the Company in October 1994 as 
Vice President-Sales.  Previously, he was employed by 
The Pillsbury Company (Division of Grand Metropolitan Inc.) 
as Vice President, Sales (March - September 1994), and as 
Vice President, Direct Sales Force (June 1993 - February 
1994); and by The Procter & Gamble Company as Sales 
Merchandising Division Manager, Soap Sector (May 1992 - 
May 1993); as Division Sales Manager, Laundry Products 
Category (November 1990 - April 1993); and as Division 
Sales Manager, Fabric Care Category (July 1988 - 
October 1990).

E. N. Wheeler joined the Company in 1973 as Manager of 
Food Product Development.  Prior to his election as 
Vice President-Health, Safety and Environment effective 
June 1, 1992, he was Vice President-Research and 
Development from 1981 through May 1992.

C. E. Williams joined the Company in May 1993 as Vice 
President-Information Services.  From 1987 until he 
joined the Company, Mr. Williams was Director of 
Information Services of the Fritz Companies, Inc.

PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND 
RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

(a)  MARKET INFORMATION.

The principal markets for Clorox Common Stock are the 
New York and Pacific Stock Exchanges.  The high and 
low sales prices quoted for New York Stock Exchange-Composite 
Transactions Report for each quarterly period during the 
past two fiscal years appears under "Quarterly Data," 
page 32 of the Annual Report, incorporated herein by 
this reference, and on July 29, 1994, the closing 
price for the Company's stock was $49.75 per share.

(b)  HOLDERS.

The approximate number of record holders of Clorox Common 
Stock as of July 29, 1994 was 12,539 based on information 
provided by the Company's transfer agent.

(c)  DIVIDENDS.

The amount of quarterly dividends paid with respect to 
Clorox Common Stock during the past two fiscal years 
appears under "Quarterly Data," page 32 of the Annual 
Report, incorporated herein by this reference.

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

This information appears under "Financial Summary," pages 
30 and 31 of the Annual Report, incorporated herein by 
this reference.

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF 
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION

This information appears under "Management's Discussion 
and Analysis," pages 18 and 19 of the Annual Report, 
incorporated herein by this reference.

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

These statements and data appear on pages 18 through 28 and 
32 of the Annual Report, incorporated herein by 
this reference.

ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON 
ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.

PART III

ITEM l0.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF 
THE REGISTRANT

Information regarding each nominee for election as a 
director, including those who are executive officers of 
the Company, appears under "Nominees for Election as 
Directors" of the definitive Proxy Statement of the 
Company, which will be filed with the United States 
Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after 
the end of the registrant's fiscal year ended June 30, 
1994 ("Proxy Statement"), incorporated herein by 
this reference.

Pursuant to Instruction 3 to Item 401(b) of 
Regulation S-K, information regarding the executive 
officers of the registrant is reported in Part I of 
this Report.

The information required by Item 405 of Regulation 
S-K appears under "Compliance with Section 16(a) of 
the Exchange Act" of the Proxy Statement, incorporated 
herein by this reference.


ITEM ll.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information required by Item 402 of Regulation S-K 
appears under "Organization of the Board of Directors," 
Employee Benefits and Management Compensation Committee 
Report on Compensation," "Summary Compensation Table," 
"Options and Stock Appreciation Rights," "Comparative 
Stock Performance," "Pension Plan," and "Supplemental 
Executive Retirement Plan" of the Proxy Statement, 
all incorporated herein by this reference.

ITEM l2.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL 
OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

(a)  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS.

Information concerning the only entity or person known 
to the Company to be the beneficial owner of more than 
5% of its Common Stock appears under "Beneficial 
Ownership of Voting Securities" of the Proxy Statement, 
incorporated herein by this reference.

(b)  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF MANAGEMENT.

Information concerning the beneficial ownership of 
the Company's Common Stock by each nominee for 
election as a director appears under "Nominees for 
Election as Directors" of the Proxy Statement and 
by all directors and executive officers as a group 
appears under "Beneficial Ownership of Voting Securities" 
of the Proxy Statement, both incorporated herein by 
this reference.

ITEM l3.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED 
TRANSACTIONS

Information concerning transactions with directors, 
nominees for election as directors, management and 
the beneficial owner of more than 5% of the Company's 
Common Stock appears under "Beneficial Ownership of 
Voting Securities" of the Proxy Statement, incorporated 
herein by this reference. 

PART IV





SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section l3 or l5(d) of the 
Securities Exchange Act of l934, the registrant has duly 
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the 
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                               THE CLOROX COMPANY   

Date:  September 21, 1994      By: /s/G. C. Sullivan
                               G. C. Sullivan, Chairman of the 
                               Board and Chief Executive 
                               Officer 


Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 
l934, this report has been signed below by the following persons 
on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the 
dates indicated.






INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT
 ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES



The Stockholders and the Board of Directors
 of The Clorox Company:

We have audited the consolidated financial statements of 
The Clorox Company and its subsidiaries as of June 30, 
1994 and 1993, and for each of the three years in the 
period ended June 30, 1994, and have issued our report thereon 
dated August 11, 1994; such consolidated financial statements 
and report are included in your 1994 Annual Report to 
Stockholders and are incorporated herein by reference.  Our 
audits also included the financial statement schedules of 
The Clorox Company and its subsidiaries listed in 
Item 14(a)(2).  These financial statement schedules are the 
responsibility of the Company's management.  Our 
responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits.  
In our opinion, such financial statement schedules, when 
considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial 
statements taken as a whole, present fairly in all material 
respects the information set forth therein.




/s/Deloitte & Touche 

San Francisco, California
August 10, 1994





                       SCHEDULE I



          THE CLOROX COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS

                      June 30, 1994
                      (In thousands)



     COLUMN A                     COLUMN B            COLUMN C

                              Principal Amount
  Name of Issuer and              of Bonds            Cost of
Title of Each Issue          and Notes           Each Issue



Eurodollar Time Deposits,
 issued by J. P. Morgan         $50,624             $50,624

Eurodollar Time Deposits          6,000               6,000

Repurchase Agreements            26,600              26,600

Certificate of Deposits           3,000               3,000

Foreign Government Notes             13                  13


              Total             $85,877             $85,877
                                 ========           ========



[FN]
  Names of issuers have been omitted when no security of the
     same issuer in the aggregate is more than two percent of
     total assets.

Information required by Columns D & E is omitted since
short-term investments are valued at cost, and such cost
approximates market value.















































                                SCHEDULE X




                 SUPPLEMENTARY INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED JUNE 30, 1994, 1993 AND 1992
                              (In thousands)



- ----------------------------------------------------------------
                COLUMN A                 Column B

                                  Charged to costs and expenses

                  Item          1994       1993       1992
- ----------------------------------------------------------------

   Maintenance and repairs     $31,300    $29,700    $29,900






Items not shown above are reported in the related consolidated
financial statements or have been omitted because they do not
exceed 1% of total net sales.




















APPENDIX

(to Form 10-K)


The following items have been filed under cover of Form SE:



1.  Page 18 - Bar Chart entitled "Clorox Value Measure", 
    showing the economic value measurement of the Company over 
    the period of the last five fiscal years.

2.  Page 19 - Bar Chart entitled "Cash Provided, Continuing 
    Operations."




