ITEM 1A |Risk Factors

Investing in AIG involves risk. In deciding whether to invest in AIG, you should carefully consider the following risk factors. Any of these risk factors could have a significant or material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. They could also cause significant fluctuations and volatility in the trading price of our securities. Readers should not consider any descriptions of these factors to be a complete set of all potential risks that could affect AIG. These factors should be considered carefully together with the other information contained in this report and the other reports and materials filed by us with the SEC. Further, many of these risks are interrelated and could occur under similar business and economic conditions, and the occurrence of certain of them may in turn cause the emergence or exacerbate the effect of others. Such a combination could materially increase the severity of the impact of these risks on our businesses, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity above and beyond a risk’s singular impact.

MARKET CONDITIONS

Deterioration of economic conditions, geopolitical tensions or weakening in global capital markets may materially affect our businesses, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.

Sustained low, declining or negative interest rates, or rapidly increasing interest rates, may materially and adversely affect our profitability.Interest rates have been declining globally, including in the United States. Sustained low interest rates can negatively affect the performance of our investments and reduce the level of investment income earned on our investment portfolios. We experience lower investment income as well as accept lower sales of new Life and Retirement insurance products and polices when a low or declining U.S. interest rate environment persists, and/or interest rates turn or, in certain circumstances remain negative across various global economies. Due to practical and capital markets limitations, we may not be able to fully mitigate our interest rate risk by matching exposure of our assets relative to our liabilities. Continued low levels of interest rates could also impair our ability to earn the returns assumed in the pricing and the reserving for our products at the time they were sold and issued. In addition, changes in interest rates may be correlated with inflation trends, which would impact our loss trends.

On the other hand, in periods of rapidly increasing interest rates, we may not be able to replace, in a timely manner, the investments in our general account with higher yielding investments needed to fund the higher crediting rates necessary to keep interest rate sensitive products competitive. Therefore, we may have to accept a lower investment spread and, thus, lower profitability or face a decline in sales and greater loss of existing contracts and related assets. In addition, policy loans, surrenders and withdrawals tend to increase as policyholders seek investments with higher perceived returns as interest rates rise. This process may result in significant cash outflows requiring that we sell investments at a time when the prices of those investments are adversely affected by the increase in interest rates, which could result in realized investment losses. An increase in interest rates could also have a material adverse effect on the value of our investment portfolio, for example, by decreasing the estimated fair values of the fixed income securities that constitute a substantial portion of our investment portfolio. This in turn could adversely affect our ability to realize our deferred tax assets.

18AIG | 2019 Form 10-K



TABLE OF CONTENTSITEM 1A |Risk Factors

Reserves and Exposures

The amount and timing of insurance and reinsurance liability claims are difficult to predict and such claims may exceed the related reserves established for losses and loss expenses.We regularly review the adequacy of the established loss reserves and conduct extensive analyses of our reserves during the year. Our loss reserves, however, may develop adversely and materially impact our businesses, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.

For General Insurance, estimation of ultimate net losses, loss expenses and loss reserves is a complex process, particularly for long-tail liability lines of business. These lines include, but are not limited to, general liability, commercial automobile liability, environmental, workers' compensation, excess casualty and crisis management coverages, insurance and risk management programs for large corporate customers and other customized structured insurance products, as well as excess and umbrella liability, errors and omissions, products liability, programs and specialty. There is also greater uncertainty in establishing reserves with respect to new business, particularly new business that is generated with respect to more recently introduced product lines. In these cases, there is less historical experience or knowledge and less data upon which the actuaries can rely. Estimating reserves is further complicated by unexpected claims or unintended coverages that emerge due to changing conditions. These emerging issues may increase the size or number of claims beyond our underwriting intent and may not become apparent for many years after a policy is issued.

While we use a number of analytical reserve development techniques to project future loss development, reserves have been and may continue to be significantly affected by changes in loss cost trends or loss development factors that were relied upon in setting the reserves. For example, in 2018 and 2017, we recorded net adverse prior year development of $366 million and $999 million, respectively, in adjusted pre-tax income (loss), to strengthen our General Insurance loss reserves, reflecting adverse development in classes of business with long reporting tails, primarily in Casualty and Financial Lines. Whereas, in 2019, we recorded favorable net development of $294 million, including $442 million in U.S. Workers’ Compensation. These changes in loss cost trends or loss development factors could be due to changes in actual versus expected claims and losses, difficulties in predicting changes, such as changes in inflation, unemployment duration, or other social or economic factors affecting claims, including judicial and legislative approaches, and changes in the tort environment. Any deviation in loss cost trends or in loss development factors might not be identified for an extended period of time after we record the initial loss reserve estimates for any accident year or number of years.

For Life and Retirement, experience may develop adversely such that additional reserves must be established. Adverse experience could arise out of a severe short-term event such as a pandemic or changes to policyholder behavior during stressed economic periods, or due to misestimation of long-term assumptions such as mortality, mortality improvement, interest rate and fixed expense assumptions. While mortality approximations are relatively stable due to the large amount of historical data available, assumptions in respect of other variables, such as policyholder behavior can be more difficult to estimate and may have a significant impact on reserves. Life and Retirement reserves and assumptions are reviewed regularly and we regularly carry out loss recognition and cash flow testing.

For a further discussion of our loss reserves see Item 7. MD&A — Critical Accounting Estimates — Insurance Liabilities — Loss Reserves and Insurance Reserves — Loss Reserves and Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Reinsurance may not be available or affordable and may not be adequate to protect us against losses.

Our subsidiaries are major purchasers of third-party reinsurance and we use reinsurance as part of our overall risk management strategy. Our reinsurance business also purchases retrocessional reinsurance, which allows a reinsurer to cede to another company all or part of the reinsurance obligations originally assumed by the reinsurer. While reinsurance does not discharge our subsidiaries from their obligation to pay claims for losses insured or reinsured under our policies, it does make the reinsurer liable to the subsidiaries for the reinsured portion of the risk. For this reason, reinsurance is an important tool to manage transaction and insurance line risk retention and to mitigate losses from catastrophes. Market conditions beyond our control may impact the availability and cost of reinsurance or retrocessional reinsurance and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, reinsurance may be more difficult or costly to obtain after a year with a large number of major catastrophes. We may, at certain times, be forced to incur additional costs for reinsurance or may be unable to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms. In the latter case, we would have to accept an increase in exposure to risk, reduce the amount of business written by our subsidiaries or seek alternatives in line with our risk limits or a combination thereof.

Additionally, we are exposed to credit risk with respect to our subsidiaries’ reinsurers to the extent the reinsurance receivable is not secured, or is inadequately secured, by collateral or does not benefit from other credit enhancements. We also bear the risk that a reinsurer is, or may be, unwilling to pay amounts we have recorded as reinsurance recoverables for any reason, including that (i) the terms of the reinsurance contract do not reflect the intent of the parties to the contract or there is a disagreement between the parties as to their intent, (ii) the terms of the contract cannot be legally enforced, (iii) the terms of the contract are interpreted by a court or arbitration panel differently than expected, (iv) the reinsurance transaction performs differently than we anticipated due to a flawed design of the reinsurance structure, terms or conditions, or (v) a change in laws and regulations, or in the interpretation of the laws

AIG | 2019 Form 10-K19



TABLE OF CONTENTSITEM 1A |Risk Factors

and regulations, materially impacts a reinsurance transaction. The insolvency of one or more of our reinsurers, or the inability or unwillingness of such reinsurers to make timely payments under the terms of our contracts or payments in an amount equal to our reinsurance recoverable, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and liquidity.

Additionally, the use of reinsurance placed in the capital markets may not provide the same levels of protection as traditional reinsurance transactions. Any disruption, volatility and uncertainty in these markets, such as following a major catastrophic event, may limit our ability to access such markets on terms favorable to us or at all. Also, to the extent that we intend to use structures based on an industry loss index or other non-indemnity trigger rather than on actual losses incurred by us, we could be subject to residual risk.

We currently have limited reinsurance coverage for terrorist attacks. Further, the availability of private sector reinsurance for terrorism is limited. We rely heavily on the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program (TRIPRA), which provides U.S. government risk assistance to the insurance industry to manage the exposure to terrorism incidents in the U.S. TRIPRA was reauthorized in December 2019 for a further seven years. Under TRIPRA, once our losses for certain acts of terrorism exceed a deductible equal to 20 percent of our direct commercial property and casualty insurance premiums for covered lines for the prior calendar year, the federal government will reimburse us for 80 percent of losses in excess of our deductible, up to a total industry program limit of $100 billion. TRIPRA does not cover losses in certain lines of business such as personal property and personal casualty. We also rely on the government sponsored and government arranged terrorism reinsurance programs, including pools, in force in applicable non-U.S. jurisdictions.

For additional information on our reinsurance recoverable, see Item 7. MD&A — Enterprise Risk Management — Insurance Risks — Reinsurance Activities — Reinsurance Recoverable.

Our consolidated results of operations, liquidity, financial condition and ratings are subject to the effects of natural and man-made catastrophic events.Events such as hurricanes, windstorms, flooding, earthquakes, wildfires, solar storms, war or other military action, acts of terrorism, explosions and fires, cyber-crimes, product defects, pandemic and other highly contagious diseases, mass torts and other catastrophes have adversely affected our business in the past and could do so in the future. For example, we incurred pre-tax catastrophe losses of $1.3 billion in 2019, which included losses from typhoons in Japan, Hurricane Dorian, a tornado in Dallas and wildfires in California, and pre-tax catastrophe losses of $2.9 billion in 2018, which included losses from Hurricanes Florence and Michael, typhoons and earthquakes in Japan and mudslides and wildfires in California.

Catastrophic events, and any relevant regulations, could expose us to:

widespread claim costs associated with property, workers’ compensation, accident and health, business interruption and mortality and morbidity claims;

loss resulting from a decline in the value of our invested assets;

limitations on our ability to recover deferred tax assets;

loss resulting from actual policy experience that is adverse compared to the assumptions made in product pricing;

declines in value and/or losses with respect to companies and other entities whose securities we hold and counterparties we transact business with and have credit exposure to, including reinsurers, and declines in the value of investments; and

significant disruptions to our physical infrastructure, systems and operations.

Natural and man-made catastrophic events are generally unpredictable. Our exposure to catastrophe-related loss depends on various factors, including the frequency and severity of the catastrophes, the rate of inflation and the value and geographic or other concentrations of insured companies and individuals. Vendor models and proprietary assumptions and processes that we use to manage catastrophe exposure may prove to be ineffective due to incorrect assumptions or estimates. For example, modeling for terrorism and cyber events may be more difficult and less reliable.

In addition, legislative and regulatory initiatives and court decisions following major catastrophes (both natural and man-made) could require us to pay the insured beyond the provisions of the original insurance policy and may prohibit the application of a deductible, resulting in inflated and unanticipated catastrophe claims; or impose other restrictions after the occurrence of a major catastrophe, which would reduce our ability to mitigate exposure.

For further details on potential catastrophic events, including a sensitivity analysis of our exposure to certain catastrophes, see Item 7. MD&A — Enterprise Risk Management — Insurance Risks.

For a discussion regarding the effects of climate change to our business, see “Climate change may adversely affect our business and financial condition” below.

20AIG | 2019 Form 10-K



TABLE OF CONTENTSITEM 1A |Risk Factors

Climate change may adversely affect our business and financial condition.AIG supports the scientific consensus that climate change is a reality of increasing global concern. Climate change, indicated by higher concentrations of greenhouse gases, a warming atmosphere and ocean, diminished snow and ice, and sea level rise, appears to have contributed to unpredictability, increase in the frequency and severity of natural disasters and the creation of uncertainty as to future trends and exposures. As such, climate change potentially poses serious financial implications for the insurance industry in areas such as underwriting, claims and investments.

Climate change exposes us to physical risks which may challenge our ability to effectively underwrite, model and price catastrophe risk particularly if the frequency and severity of catastrophic events such as pandemics, hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, wildfires and windstorms and other natural disasters continue to increase. For example, losses resulting from actual policy experience may be adverse as compared to the assumptions made in product pricing and our ability to mitigate our exposure may be reduced.

Climate change-related risks may also adversely impact the value of the securities that we hold or lead to increased credit risk of other counterparties we transact business with, including reinsurers. In addition, our reputation or corporate brand could be negatively impacted as a result of changing customer or societal perceptions of organizations that we either insure or invest in due to their actions (or lack thereof) with respect to climate change. We cannot predict the long-term impacts of climate change on our business and results of operations.

Concentration of our insurance, reinsurance and other risk exposures may have adverse effects.We are exposed to risks as a result of concentrations in our insurance and reinsurance policies, investments, derivatives and other obligations that we undertake for customers and counterparties. We manage these concentration risks by monitoring the accumulation of our exposures to factors such as exposure type and size, industry, geographic region, counterparty and other factors. We also seek to use third-party reinsurance, hedging and other arrangements to limit or offset exposures that exceed the retention and risk appetite limits we define as part of our Risk Appetite Statement. In certain circumstances, however, these risk management arrangements may not be available on acceptable terms or may prove to be ineffective for certain exposures. Our risk exposures under insurance and reinsurance policies, derivatives and other obligations are, from time to time, compounded by risk exposure assumed in our investment business. Also, our exposure for certain single risk coverages and other coverages may be so large that adverse experience compared to our expectations may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations or result in additional statutory capital requirements for our subsidiaries.

Also see Item 7. MD&A – Business Segment Operations – General Insurance – Business Strategy and – Outlook – Industry and Economic Factors.

Interest rate fluctuations, increased lapses and surrenders, declining investment returns and other events may require our subsidiaries to accelerate the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs (DAC) and record additional liabilities for future policy benefits.We incur significant costs in connection with acquiring new and renewal insurance business. DAC represents deferred costs that are incremental and directly related to the successful acquisition of new business or renewal of existing business. The recovery of these costs is generally dependent upon the future profitability of the related business, but DAC amortization varies based on the type of contract. For long-duration traditional business, DAC is generally amortized in proportion to premium revenue and varies with lapse experience. Actual lapses in excess of expectations can result in an acceleration of DAC amortization, and therefore, adversely impact our pre-tax income.

DAC for investment-oriented products is generally amortized in proportion to estimated gross profits. Estimated gross profits are affected by a number of factors, including levels of current and expected interest rates, net investment income and spreads, net realized capital gains and losses, fees, surrender rates, mortality experience, policyholder behavior experience and equity market returns and volatility. If actual and/or future estimated gross profits are less than originally expected, then the amortization of these costs would be accelerated in the period the actual experience is known and would result in a charge to income. For example, if interest rates rise rapidly and significantly, customers with policies that have interest crediting rates below the current market may seek competing products with higher returns and we may experience an increase in surrenders and withdrawals of life and annuity contracts, and thereby a strain on cash flow. Additionally, this would also result in a decrease in future profitability and an acceleration of the amortization of DAC, and therefore lower than expected pre-tax income earned during the then current period.

We also periodically review products for potential loss recognition events, principally insurance-oriented products. This review involves estimating the future profitability of in-force business and requires significant management judgment about assumptions including, but not limited to, mortality, morbidity, persistency, maintenance expenses and investment returns, including net realized capital gains (losses). If actual experience or revised future expectations result in projected future losses, we may be required to amortize any remaining DAC and record additional liabilities through a charge to policyholder benefit expense in the then current period, which could negatively affect our results of operations.

For further discussion of DAC and future policy benefits, see Item 7. MD&A — Critical Accounting Estimates and Notes 10 and 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

AIG | 2019 Form 10-K21



TABLE OF CONTENTSITEM 1A |Risk Factors

Losses due to nonperformance or defaults by counterparties can materially and adversely affect the value of our investments, our profitability and sources of liquidity.



Investment Portfolio AND Concentration of Investments

The performance and value of our investment portfolio are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including changes in interest rates.Our investments are subject to market risks and uncertainties, including, in addition to interest rate risk, currency rate risk, commodity risk and equity risk. In particular, interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including monetary and fiscal policy, domestic and international economic and political issues and other factors beyond our control. Changes in monetary policy or other factors may cause interest rate volatility, which could adversely affect the value of the fixed income securities that we hold and could adversely affect our ability to sell these securities. In addition, the evaluation of available-for-sale securities for other-than-temporary impairments, which may occur if interest rates rise, is a quantitative and qualitative process that is subject to significant management judgment.

For a sensitivity analysis of our exposure to certain market risk factors see Item 7. MD&A – Enterprise Risk Management – Market Risk Management.

For a discussion regarding changes to LIBOR rates, see “Changes in the method for determining LIBOR and the upcoming phasing out of LIBOR and uncertainty related to LIBOR replacement rates may affect our business and results of operations” below.

For a discussion regarding risks associated with interest rate volatility, see “Sustained low, declining or negative interest rates, or rapidly increasing interest rates, may materially and adversely affect our profitability” above.

Furthermore, our alternative investment portfolio, which is subject to increased volatility, includes investments for which changes in fair value are reported through pre-tax income. In an economic downturn or declining market, the reduction in our investment income due to decreases in the fair value of alternative investments could have a material adverse effect on pre-tax income.

Our investment portfolio is concentrated in certain segments of the economy.Our results of operations and financial condition have in the past been, and may in the future be, adversely affected by the degree of concentration in our investment portfolio. We have significant exposure to real estate and real estate-related securities, including residential mortgage-backed, commercial mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities and residential and commercial mortgage loans. We also have significant exposures to financial institutions and, in particular, to money center and global banks; certain industries, such as energy and utilities, the U.S. federal, state and local government issuers and authorities, and global financial institutions, governments and corporations. Events or developments that have a negative effect on any particular industry, asset class, group of related industries or geographic region may adversely affect the valuation of our investments to the extent they are concentrated in such segments. Our ability to sell assets concentrated in such segments may be limited.

Our valuation of investments may include methodologies, estimations and assumptions that are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to investment valuations that may materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity or lead to volatility in our net income.During periods of market disruption, it may be difficult to value certain of our investments or derivatives if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. There may be cases where certain assets in normally active markets with significant observable data become inactive with insufficient observable data due to the financial environment or market conditions in effect at that time. As a result, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation and judgment as well as valuation methods that are more complex. These values may not be realized in a market transaction, may not reflect the value of the asset and may change very rapidly as market conditions change and valuation assumptions are modified. Decreases in value and/or an inability to realize that value in a market transaction or other disposition may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.

22AIG | 2019 Form 10-K



TABLE OF CONTENTSITEM 1A |Risk Factors

Furthermore, accounting treatment of certain investments can lead to volatility in our net income. For example, we are a party to certain modified coinsurance arrangements with Fortitude Holdings which contain an embedded derivative and therefore, if and when the sale of our controlling financial interest in Fortitude Holding closes and Fortitude Holdings is deconsolidated, changes in fair value associated with the reinsurance agreement will be recorded through the income statement whereas the change in the fair value of the invested assets supporting the modified coinsurance arrangements are generally recorded in other comprehensive income, resulting in an accounting asymmetry in our financial statements that may result in a material impact on our net income attributable to common shareholders that does not occur today because the reinsurance transactions are currently eliminated in consolidation.

LIQUIDITY, CAPITAL AND CREDIT

AIG Parent’s ability to access funds from our subsidiaries is limited.As a holding company, AIG Parent depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund dividends on AIG Common Stock and Preferred Stock, to fund repurchases of AIG Common Stock, warrants and debt obligations and to make payments due on its obligations, including its outstanding debt. The majority of our investments are held by our regulated subsidiaries. Certain of our subsidiaries are limited in their ability to make dividend payments or other distributions to AIG Parent in the future because of the need to support their own capital levels or because of regulatory limits or rating agency requirements. The inability of our subsidiaries to make payments, dividends or other distributions in an amount sufficient to enable AIG Parent to meet its cash requirements could have an adverse effect on our operations, and on our ability to pay dividends, repurchase AIG Common Stock, warrants and debt obligations or to meet our debt service obligations.

Our internal sources of liquidity may be insufficient to meet our needs, including providing capital that may be required by our subsidiaries.

For a further discussion of our liquidity, see Item 7. MD&A — Liquidity and Capital Resources.

For further discussion of rating agency requirements, see “A downgrade in the Insurer Financial Strength ratings of our insurance or reinsurance companies could limit their ability to write or prevent them from writing new business and retaining customers and business, and a downgrade in our credit ratings could adversely affect our business, our results of operations or our liquidity” below.

For further discussion of the Fortitude membership interest purchase agreement, see “Business or asset acquisitions and dispositions may expose us to certain risks” below.

We may not be able to generate cash to meet our needs due to the illiquidity of some of our investments.AIG Parent and its subsidiaries have a diversified investment portfolio. However, economic conditions as well as adverse capital market conditions, including a lack of buyers, volatility, credit spread changes, interest rate changes, foreign currency exchange rates and/or decline in collateral values have in the past impacted, and may in the future impact, the liquidity and value of our investments.

For example, we have made investments in certain securities that are generally considered illiquid, including certain fixed income securities and certain structured securities, privately placed securities, investments in private equity funds and hedge funds, mortgage loans, finance receivables and real estate. Collectively, investments in these assets had a fair value of $66 billion at December 31, 2019. Adverse changes in the valuation of real estate and real estate-linked assets, deterioration of capital markets and widening credit spreads have in the past, and may in the future, materially adversely affect the liquidity and the value of our other investment portfolios, including our residential and commercial mortgage related securities portfolios.

In the event additional liquidity is required by one or more of our companies, it may be difficult for us to generate additional liquidity by selling, pledging or otherwise monetizing these or other of our investments at reasonable prices and time frames.

AIG | 2019 Form 10-K23



TABLE OF CONTENTSITEM 1A |Risk Factors

A downgrade in the Insurer Financial Strength ratings of our insurance or reinsurance companies could limit their ability to write or prevent them from writing new business and retaining customers and business, and a downgrade in our credit ratings could adversely affect our business, our results of operations or our liquidity.Insurer Financial Strength (IFS) ratings are an important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance or reinsurance companies. IFS ratings measure an insurance or reinsurance company’s ability to meet its obligations to contract holders and policyholders.

Credit rating agencies estimate a company’s ability to meet its ongoing financial obligations and high IFS and credit ratings help maintain public confidence in a company’s products, facilitate marketing of products and enhance its competitive position. Downgrades of the IFS ratings of our insurance or reinsurance companies could prevent these companies from selling, or make it more difficult for them to succeed in selling, products and services, or result in increased policy cancellations, lapses and surrenders, termination of, or increased collateral posting obligations under, assumed reinsurance contracts, or return of premiums. Under credit rating agency policies concerning the relationship between parent and subsidiary ratings, a downgrade in AIG Parent’s credit ratings could result in a downgrade of the IFS ratings of our insurance or reinsurance subsidiaries.

In addition, a downgrade of our long-term debt ratings by the major rating agencies could potentially increase our financing costs and limit the availability of financing. A downgrade would also require us to post additional collateral payments related to derivative transactions to which we are a party, and could permit the termination of these derivative transactions. This could adversely affect our business, our consolidated results of operations in a reporting period and/or our liquidity.

Certain rating agencies negatively revised the outlook for our IFS and credit ratings in early 2017, primarily as a result of our reserve strengthening in the fourth quarter of 2016 and related concerns regarding our profitability outlook. In 2019 and throughout 2020 to date, certain rating agencies revised their outlook for our IFS and credit ratings to stable, while one rating agency has maintained a negative outlook. We cannot predict what actions rating agencies may take, or what actions we may take in response to the actions of rating agencies, which could adversely affect our business.

We may be required to post additional collateral because of changes in our reinsurance liabilities to regulated insurance companies, or because of regulatory changes that affect our businesses.If our reinsurance liabilities increase, we may be required to post additional collateral for insurance company clients that we reinsure. In addition, regulatory changes could require us to post additional collateral. The need to post this additional collateral, if significant enough, may require us to sell investments at a loss in order to provide securities of suitable credit quality or otherwise secure adequate capital at an unattractive cost. This could adversely impact our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.

Changes in the method for determining LIBOR and the upcoming phasing out of LIBOR and uncertainty related to LIBOR replacement rates may affect our business and results of operations.Since the UK Financial Conduct Authority announced in 2017 that it would no longer compel banks to submit London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) rates after 2021, we are determining how our hedging strategies, asset portfolio, liabilities, systems and operations may be affected in a post-LIBOR environment.

Potential changes to LIBOR, as well as uncertainty related to such potential changes and the establishment of any alternative reference rates, may adversely affect the market for LIBOR-based securities and could adversely impact the substantial amount of derivatives contracts used to hedge our insurance and other liabilities. In addition, the discontinuance of LIBOR or changes or reforms to the determination or supervision of LIBOR may result in a sudden or prolonged increase or decrease in reported LIBOR, which could have an adverse impact on the market for LIBOR-based securities or the value of our investment portfolio and the derivatives contracts used to hedge our insurance and other liabilities.

Markets are slowly developing in response to these alternative reference rates. Questions concerning liquidity and how to appropriately adjust these rates to eliminate any economic value transfer at the time of transition remain a significant concern for us and others in the marketplace. The effect of any changes or reforms to LIBOR or discontinuation of LIBOR on new or existing financial instruments to which we have exposure or on our businesses will vary depending on (1) existing fallback provisions in individual contracts and (2) whether, how, and when industry participants develop and widely adopt alternative reference rates and fallbacks for both legacy and new products or instruments. At this time, we cannot predict how markets will respond to these potential alternative reference rates or the effect of any changes to or discontinuation of LIBOR on new or existing financial instruments to which we have exposure and our liability profile.

Internal actions taken to address the transition from LIBOR and to mitigate potential risks include, among other things, ensuring new legal contracts and our asset and debt issuances reference appropriate LIBOR fallback provisions and identifying fallback provisions in existing contracts and investments which mature after 2021, updating valuation and actuarial models which utilize LIBOR, determining the impact of new accounting and tax requirements, adjusting applicable technology applications to be able to support both LIBOR and new alternative rates and executing test trades for derivatives, assets and debt issuances utilizing the new alternative reference rates. We also participate in certain LIBOR replacement working groups under the auspices of ISDA and the U.S. based Alternative Reference Rate Committee (ARRC) and conduct periodic discussions with our industry peers, banking

24AIG | 2019 Form 10-K



TABLE OF CONTENTSITEM 1A |Risk Factors

institutions and the relevant administrators of LIBOR and the ARRC in order to monitor, provide appropriate feedback and otherwise participate in discussions regarding the transition from LIBOR.

We continue to actively monitor both market and regulatory changes in order to prepare for any discontinuation of the LIBOR benchmark.

Business and operations

Pricing for our products is subject to our ability to adequately assess risks and estimate losses.We seek to price our insurance and reinsurance products such that premiums, policy fees and other charges and future net investment income earned on revenues received will result in an acceptable profit in excess of expected claims, assumed expense loads and the cost of capital. Our business is dependent on our ability to price our products effectively and charge appropriate premiums. Pricing adequacy depends on a number of factors and assumptions, including proper evaluation of insurance risks, our expense levels, net investment income realized, our response to rate actions taken by competitors, legal and regulatory developments and the ability to obtain regulatory approval for rate changes. For example, some of our life insurance business and annuity policies provide management the right to adjust certain nonguaranteed charges or benefits if necessary; however, this right is limited and may be subject to guaranteed minimums or maximums, and the exercise of these rights could result in reputational and/or litigation risk. Inadequate pricing could have a material adverse effect on the profitability of our operations and our financial condition.

Failure to effectively execute on AIG 200 could result in costs that are greater than expected, savings that are less than expected and disruption to our businesses that could have a material effect on our operations or financial condition.In 2019, we announced AIG 200, our global, multi-year and enterprise-wide program involving transformational change across the company that is guided by four core objectives: achieving underwriting excellence, modernizing operating infrastructure, enhancing user and customer experiences and becoming a more unified company. AIG 200 is comprised of ten operational programs that are complex and require significant investment and resource prioritization. We may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits from these operational programs, and the work we are undertaking could result in disruption to our businesses and loss of talent. Other risks associated with AIG 200 include delays in execution across the programs, particularly with respect to implementation of technology platforms, lack of sufficient resources to execute on a timely basis, inefficiencies stemming from changes that may be required to programs or sequencing, and failure to meet operational and financial targets due to additional priorities or other factors. These risks may impair our ability to achieve anticipated improvements in our businesses or may otherwise harm our operations which could materially and adversely affect our businesses, financial condition and cash flow.

Guarantees within certain of our products may increase the volatility of our results.Certain of our annuity and life insurance products include features that guarantee a certain level of benefits, including guaranteed minimum death benefits (GMDB), guaranteed living benefits (GLB), and products with guaranteed interest crediting rates, including crediting rate guarantees tied to the performance of various market indices.

For a discussion of market risk management related to these product features see Item 7. MD&A – Enterprise Risk Management – Insurance Risks – Life and Retirement Companies’ Key Risks – Variable Annuity, Index Annuity and Universal Risk Management and Hedging Programs.

Differences between the change in fair value of the embedded derivatives associated with some of these guarantees and the value of the related hedging portfolio can be caused by extreme and unanticipated movements in the level of equity markets, interest rates and market volatility, policyholder behavior that differs from our assumptions and our inability to purchase hedging instruments at prices consistent with the desired risk and return trade-off. The occurrence of one or more of these events has in the past resulted in, and could in the future result in, an increase in the fair value of liabilities associated with the guaranteed benefits, thus reducing our pre-tax net income and shareholders’ equity.

While we believe that our actions have reduced the risks related to guaranteed benefits and guaranteed interest crediting, our exposure is not fully, and may not be effectively, hedged.

For more information regarding these products see Notes 6 and 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Item 1. Business – Regulation, and Item 7. MD&A – Critical Accounting Estimates– Guaranteed Benefit Features of Variable Annuity Products.

Our foreign operations expose us to risks that may affect our operations.We provide insurance, reinsurance, investment and other financial products and services to both businesses and individuals in more than 80 countries and jurisdictions. A substantial portion of our business is conducted outside the U.S., and we intend to continue to grow business in strategic markets. Operations outside the U.S. have in the past been, and may in the future be, affected by regional economic downturns, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, political events or upheaval, nationalization and other restrictive government actions, which could also affect our other operations.

AIG | 2019 Form 10-K25



TABLE OF CONTENTSITEM 1A |Risk Factors

The degree of regulation and supervision in foreign jurisdictions varies. AIG subsidiaries operating in foreign jurisdictions must satisfy local regulatory requirements and it is possible that local licenses may require AIG Parent to meet certain conditions. Licenses issued by foreign authorities to our subsidiaries are subject to modification and revocation. Consequently, our insurance subsidiaries could be prevented from conducting future business in some of the jurisdictions where they currently operate. Adverse actions from any single country could adversely affect our results of operations, depending on the magnitude of the event and our financial exposure at that time in that country.

In addition, AIG Parent and its subsidiaries are subject to various extraterritorial laws and regulations, including such laws adopted by the U.S. that affect how we do business around the world. These laws and regulations may conflict and we may incur penalties and/or reputational harm if we fail to adhere to them.

Our restructuring initiatives may not yield our expected reductions in expenses and improvements in operational and organizational efficiency.We may not be able to fully realize the anticipated expense reductions and operational and organizational efficiency improvements we expect to result from our regional and operational restructuring initiatives. Actual costs to implement these initiatives may exceed our estimates or we may be unable to fully implement and execute these initiatives as planned. The implementation of these initiatives may harm our relationships with customers or employees or our competitive position. Our businesses and results of operations may be negatively impacted if we are unable to realize these anticipated expense reductions and efficiency improvements or if implementing these initiatives harms our relationships with customers or employees or our competitive position. The successful implementation of these initiatives may continue to require us to effect workforce reductions, business rationalizations, systems enhancements, business process outsourcing, business and asset dispositions and acquisitions and other actions, which depend on a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control.

We may experience difficulty in marketing and distributing products through our current and future distribution channels.Although we distribute our products through a wide variety of distribution channels, we maintain relationships with certain key distributors. Distributors have in the past, and may in the future, elect to renegotiate the terms of existing relationships, limit the products they sell, including the types of products offered by us, or otherwise reduce or terminate their distribution relationships with us. This could be due to various reasons, such as industry consolidation of distributors or other industry changes that increase the competition for access to distributors, developments in laws or regulations that affect our business or industry, including the marketing and sale of our products and services, adverse developments in our business, adverse rating agency actions or concerns about market-related risks. An interruption or reduction in certain key relationships could materially affect our ability to market our products and could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, operating results and financial condition.

In addition, we are responsible for the actions of our employee agents and can, in certain circumstances, be held responsible for the actions of our third-party distributors, including broker dealers, registered representatives, insurance agents and agencies and marketing organizations, in connection with the marketing and sale of our products by such parties in a manner that is deemed not compliant with applicable laws and regulations. This is particularly acute with respect to unaffiliated distributors. If our products are distributed to customers for whom they are unsuitable or distributed in a manner deemed inappropriate, we could suffer reputational and/or other financial harm to our business.

For a discussion regarding suitability standards, Item 1. Business – Regulation – U.S. Regulation.

We are exposed to certain risks if we are unable to maintain the availability of our electronic data systems and safeguard our data, which could compromise our ability to conduct business and adversely affect our consolidated financial condition or results of operations.We use computer systems to store, retrieve, evaluate and use customer, employee, and company data and information. Some of these systems, in turn, rely upon third-party systems, which themselves may rely on the systems of other third

26AIG | 2019 Form 10-K



TABLE OF CONTENTSITEM 1A |Risk Factors

parties. Additionally, some of our systems are older, legacy-type systems that are less efficient and require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain or upgrade. Our business is highly dependent on our ability to access these systems to perform necessary business functions. These functions include providing insurance or reinsurance quotes, processing premium payments, making changes to existing policies, filing and paying claims, administering life and annuity products and mutual funds, providing customer support, executing transactions and managing our investment portfolios. Systems failures or outages could compromise our ability to perform these functions in a timely manner, which could harm our ability to conduct business, hurt our relationships with our business partners and customers and expose us to legal claims as well as regulatory investigations and sanctions. In the event of a natural disaster, a computer virus, unauthorized access, a terrorist attack, cyberattack or other disruption inside or outside the U.S., our systems may be inaccessible to our employees, customers or business partners for an extended period of time, and we may be unable to perform our duties for an extended period of time if our data or systems are disabled, manipulated, destroyed or otherwise compromised.

In addition, we routinely transmit, receive and store personal, confidential and proprietary information by email and other electronic means. Although we attempt to keep such information confidential and secure, we may be unable to do so in all events, especially with clients, vendors, service providers, counterparties and other third parties who may not have or use appropriate controls to protect personal, confidential or proprietary information. Any problems caused by these third parties, including those resulting from breakdowns or other disruptions in information technology services provided by a vendor, failure of a vendor to handle current or higher volumes, cyber-attacks and security breaches at a vendor have in the past, and could in the future, adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers and otherwise conduct our business.

Furthermore, certain of our businesses are subject to compliance with laws and regulations enacted by U.S. federal and state governments, the European Union or other jurisdictions or enacted by various regulatory organizations or exchanges relating to the privacy and security of the information of clients, employees or others. The variety of applicable privacy and information security laws and regulations exposes us to heightened regulatory scrutiny and requires us to incur significant technical, legal and other expenses in an effort to ensure and maintain compliance. If we are found not to be in compliance with these laws and regulations, we could be subjected to significant civil and criminal liability and exposed to reputational harm. For additional information on data protection and cybersecurity regulations,

see Item 1. Business – Regulation – U.S. Regulation – Privacy, Data Protection and Cybersecurity and – International Regulation – Privacy, Data Protection and Cybersecurity, and Item 7. MD&A – Enterprise Risk Management – Operational Risk Management – Cybersecurity Risk

. Additionally, the compromise of personal, confidential or proprietary information could cause a loss of data, give rise to remediation or other expenses, expose us to liability under U.S. and international laws and regulations, and subject us to litigation, investigations, sanctions and regulatory and law enforcement action, and result in reputational harm and loss of business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.

We are continuously evaluating and enhancing systems and creating new systems and processes, including to maintain or upgrade our business continuity plans (including, for example, use of cloud services), as our business depends on our ability to maintain and improve our technology systems for interacting with customers, brokers and employees. Due to the complexity and interconnectedness of these systems and processes, these changes, as well as changes designed to update and enhance our protective measures to address new threats, increase the risk of a system or process failure or the creation of a gap in the associated security measures. Any such failure or gap could adversely affect our business operations and the advancement of our business or strategic initiatives.

Business or asset acquisitions and dispositions may expose us to certain risks.The completion of any business or asset acquisition or disposition is subject to certain risks, including those relating to the receipt of required regulatory approvals, the terms and conditions of regulatory approvals including any financial accommodations required by regulators, our ability to satisfy such

AIG | 2019 Form 10-K27



TABLE OF CONTENTSITEM 1A |Risk Factors

Significant legal proceedings may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.

For a discussion of certain legal proceedings, including certain tax controversies, see Notes 17 and 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Indemnity claims could be made against us in connection with divested businesses.We have provided financial guarantees and indemnities in connection with the businesses we have sold, as described in greater detail in Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. While we do not currently believe that claims under these indemnities will be material, it is possible that significant indemnity claims could be made against us. If such a claim or claims were successful, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.

For additional information on these financial guarantees and indemnities see Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Our risk management policies and procedures may prove to be ineffective and leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could adversely affect our businesses or result in losses.We have developed and continue to develop enterprise-wide risk management policies and procedures to mitigate risk and loss to which we are exposed.

There are, however, inherent limitations to risk management strategies because there may exist, or develop in the future, risks that we have not sufficiently or accurately anticipated or identified. For example, our current business continuity and disaster recovery plans may not be sufficient to reduce the impact of pandemics and other natural or man-made catastrophic events that are beyond our anticipated thresholds or impact tolerances. If our risk management policies and procedures are ineffective, we may suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected. As our businesses change and the markets in which we operate

28AIG | 2019 Form 10-K



TABLE OF CONTENTSITEM 1A |Risk Factors

evolve, our risk management framework may not evolve at the same pace as those changes. As a result, there is a risk that new products or new business strategies may present risks that are not appropriately identified, monitored or managed. In times of market stress, unanticipated financial market movements or unanticipated claims experience resulting from adverse mortality, morbidity or policyholder behavior, the effectiveness of our risk management strategies may be limited, resulting in losses to us. In addition, there can be no assurance that we can effectively review and monitor all risks or that all of our employees will follow our risk management policies and procedures.

REGULATION



Our businesses are heavily regulated and changes in laws and regulations may affect our operations, increase our insurance subsidiary capital requirements or reduce our profitability.



We strive to comply with laws and regulations applicable to our businesses, operations and legal entities. The application of and compliance with such laws and regulations may be subject to interpretation, evolving industry practices and regulatory expectations that could result in increased compliance costs. The relevant authorities may not agree with our interpretation of these laws and regulations, including our implementation of requirements related to new or changes in capital, reserving and accounting treatment, or with our policies and procedures adopted to address evolving industry practices or meet regulatory expectations. Such authorities’ interpretation and views may also change from time to time. If we are found not to have complied with applicable legal or regulatory requirements, these authorities could preclude or temporarily suspend us from carrying on some or all of our activities, impose substantial fines or require corrective actions to be taken, which individually or in the aggregate could adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition.

We also strive to maintain all required licenses and approvals. Regulatory authorities have relatively broad discretion to grant, renew or revoke licenses and approvals. If we do not have the required licenses and approvals, these authorities could preclude or temporarily suspend us from carrying on some or all of our activities or impose substantial fines. Further, insurance regulatory authorities have relatively broad discretion to issue orders of supervision, which permit them to apply enhanced supervision to the business and operations of an insurance or reinsurance company.

In the U.S., the RBC formula is designed to measure the adequacy of an insurer’s statutory surplus in relation to the risks inherent in its business. Regulators in other jurisdictions in which we do business have adopted capital and liquidity standards applicable to insurers and reinsurers operating in their jurisdiction. Failure to comply with such RBC capital, liquidity and similar requirements would generally permit the insurance regulator to take certain regulatory actions that could materially impact the affected company’s operations. Those actions range from requiring an insurer to submit a plan describing how it would regain a specified RBC ratio to a mandatory regulatory takeover of the company. The NAIC and certain international standard-setting bodies are also considering and testing methodologies for assessing group-wide regulatory capital, which might evolve into more formal group-wide capital requirements on certain insurance companies and/or their holding companies that may augment state-law RBC standards, and similar international standards, that apply at the legal entity level, and such capital calculations may be made, in whole or in part, on bases other than the statutory statements of our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries. We cannot predict the effect these initiatives may have on our business, consolidated results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.

See “Actions by foreign governments, regulators and international standard setters could result in substantial additional regulation to which we may be subject” below for additional information on increased capital and other requirements that may be imposed on us.

The degree of regulation and supervision in foreign jurisdictions varies. AIG subsidiaries operating in foreign jurisdictions must satisfy local regulatory requirements and it is possible that local licenses may require AIG Parent to meet certain conditions. Licenses issued

AIG | 2019 Form 10-K29



TABLE OF CONTENTSITEM 1A |Risk Factors

by foreign authorities to our subsidiaries are subject to modification and revocation. Accordingly, our insurance subsidiaries could be prevented from conducting future business in certain of the jurisdictions where they currently operate. Adverse actions from any single country could adversely affect our business, consolidated results of operations, liquidity and financial condition, depending on the magnitude of the event and our financial exposure at that time in that country.

For further discussion of our regulatory environment see Item 1. Business – Regulation.

Actions by foreign governments, regulators and international standard setters could result in substantial additional regulation to which we may be subject.We cannot predict the impact laws and regulations adopted in foreign jurisdictions may have on the financial markets generally or our businesses, results of operations or cash flows. It is possible such laws and regulations, our satisfaction of the IAIG criteria and certain standard-setting initiatives by the FSB and the IAIS, including, but not limited to, the IAIS’ development of a Common Framework for the Supervision of IAIGs, a holistic framework for the assessment and mitigation of systemic risk and a risk-based global ICS, and implementation of Solvency II in the European Union, may significantly alter our business practices. They may also limit our ability to engage in capital or liability management, require us to raise additional capital, and impose burdensome requirements and additional costs. It is also possible that the laws and regulations adopted in foreign jurisdictions will differ from one another, and that they could be inconsistent with the laws and regulations of other jurisdictions in which we operate, including the U.S.

For further details on these international regulations and their potential impact on AIG and its businesses, see Item 1. Business – Regulation – International Regulation.

The USA PATRIOT Act, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the Office of Foreign Assets Control regulations and similar laws and regulations that apply to us may expose us to significant penalties.The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 requires companies to know certain information about their clients and to monitor their transactions for suspicious activities. The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act makes it unlawful for certain classes of persons and entities to make payments to foreign government officials to assist in obtaining or retaining business. Also, the Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control administers regulations requiring U.S. persons to refrain from doing business, or allowing their clients to do business through them, with certain organizations or individuals on a prohibited list maintained by the U.S. government or with certain countries. The UK, the EU and other jurisdictions maintain similar laws and regulations. The laws and regulations of other jurisdictions may sometimes conflict with those of the U.S. Although we have instituted compliance programs to address these requirements, as well as potential conflicts of law, there are inherent risks in global transactions.

Attempts to efficiently manage the impact of Regulation XXX, Actuarial Guideline AXXX and Principle-Based Reserving (PBR) may not be successful in whole or in part resulting in an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Regulation XXX requires insurers to establish additional statutory reserves for term life insurance policies with long-term premium guarantees and universal life policies with secondary guarantees. In addition, NAIC Actuarial Guideline 38 (Guideline AXXX) clarifies the application of Regulation XXX as to certain universal life insurance policies with secondary guarantees. In December 2012, the NAIC approved a new Valuation Manual (VM) containing a principle-based approach to life insurance company reserves, which became effective on January 1, 2017, and replaced Regulation XXX and Guideline AXXX for new life insurance business issued after January 1, 2017. As permitted by applicable regulations, we deferred implementing PBR until January 1, 2020, and have applied it as of such date for relevant life insurance business issued on or after January 1, 2020.

For additional information regarding principle-based reserving, see Item 1. Business – Regulation – U.S. Regulation – Insurance Regulation.

For the portion of our life insurance business subject to Regulation XXX and Guideline AXXX, our domestic Life and Retirement companies manage the capital impact of statutory reserve requirements under Regulation XXX and Guideline AXXX through reinsurance transactions. The application of Regulation XXX and Guideline AXXX involve numerous interpretations. If state insurance departments do not agree with our interpretations or if regulations change with respect to our ability to manage the capital impact of certain statutory reserve requirements, our statutory reserve requirements could increase, or our ability to take reserve credit for reinsurance transactions could be reduced or eliminated. As a result, we could be required to raise capital to replace the reserve credit provided by the reinsurance transactions or incur higher costs to obtain reinsurance, each of which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.

For the portion of our life insurance business subject to PBR, the application of PBR involves numerous interpretations. If our actions to efficiently manage the impact of PBR on our life insurance business reserving are not successful, we may incur higher operating costs or our sales of these products may be affected.

For additional information on statutory reserving requirements under Regulation XXX and Guideline AXXX and our use of reinsurance see Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

30AIG | 2019 Form 10-K



TABLE OF CONTENTSITEM 1A |Risk Factors

Third parties we rely upon to provide certain business and administrative services on our behalf may not perform as anticipated, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.We rely on the use of third-party providers to deliver contracted services in a broad range of areas, including the administration or servicing of certain policies and contracts and investment accounting and operational functions. Some of these providers are located outside the U.S., which exposes us to business disruptions and political risks inherent when conducting business outside of the U.S. We periodically negotiate provisions and renewals of these relationships, and there can be no assurance that such terms will remain acceptable to us or such third parties. If such third-party providers experience disruptions, do not perform as anticipated or in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, or such third-party provider in turn relies on services from another third-party provider, who experiences such disruptions, nonperformance or noncompliance, we may experience operational difficulties, an inability to meet obligations (including, but not limited to, legal, regulatory or policyholder obligations), a loss of business, increased costs or reputational harm, or suffer other negative consequences, all of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.

For a discussion regarding cyber risk arising from third-party providers, see “We are exposed to certain risks if we are unable to maintain the availability of our electronic data systems and safeguard our data, which could compromise our ability to conduct business and adversely affect our consolidated financial condition or results of operations” above.

New laws and regulations may affect our businesses, results of operations, financial condition and ability to compete effectively.Legislators, regulators and self-regulatory organizations have in the past, and may in the future, periodically consider various proposals that may affect, among other things, our business practices and product designs, how we market, sell or service certain products we offer, our capital, reserving and accounting requirements, or the profitability of certain of our businesses. New laws and regulations may even affect our ability to conduct certain businesses at all, including proposals relating to restrictions on the type of activities in which financial institutions are permitted to engage. These proposals could also impose additional taxes on a limited subset of financial institutions and insurance companies (either based on size, activities, geography or other criteria). It is uncertain whether and how these and other such proposals would apply to us, those who sell or service our products, or our competitors or how they could impact our ability to compete effectively, as well as our business, consolidated results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.

Certain provisions of Dodd-Frank remain relevant to insurance groups generally, including AIG.The Financial Stability Oversight Council (Council) rescinded our designation as a nonbank SIFI on September 29, 2017, but the Council remains authorized under Dodd-Frank to determine, subject to certain statutory and regulatory standards and to recent changes to the Council’s guidance favoring an activities-based approach to systemic risk identification and mitigation, that certain nonbank financial companies be designated as nonbank SIFIs subject to supervision by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and enhanced prudential standards. The Council may also recommend that state insurance regulators or other regulators apply new or heightened standards and safeguards for activities or practices that we and other insurers or other nonbank financial services companies, including insurers, engage in. Additionally, Dodd-Frank directs existing and newly created government agencies and bodies to promulgate regulations implementing the law, which is an ongoing process. There remains considerable uncertainty as to the potential adoption and timing of additional regulatory changes related to Dodd-Frank. We cannot predict the requirements of any additional regulations that may be ultimately adopted or the impact they may have on our businesses, consolidated results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.

See Item 1. Business – Regulation – U.S. Regulation – Dodd-Frank for further discussion of provisions of Dodd-Frank that remain relevant to insurance groups generally.

An “ownership change” could limit our ability to utilize tax loss and credit carryforwards to offset future taxable income.



AIG | 2019 Form 10-K31



TABLE OF CONTENTSITEM 1A |Risk Factors

The Plan is designed to reduce the likelihood of an “ownership change” by (i) discouraging any person or group from becoming a 4.99 percent shareholder and (ii) discouraging any existing 4.99 percent shareholder from acquiring additional shares of AIG Common Stock. The Protective Amendment generally restricts any transfer of AIG Common Stock that would (i) increase the ownership by any person to 4.99 percent or more of AIG Common Stock then outstanding or (ii) increase the percentage of AIG Common Stock owned by a Five Percent Stockholder (as defined in the Plan). Despite the intentions of the Plan and the Protective Amendment to deter and prevent an “ownership change”, such an event may still occur. In addition, the Plan and the Protective Amendment may make it more difficult and more expensive to acquire us, and may discourage open market purchases of AIG Common Stock or a non-negotiated tender or exchange offer for AIG Common Stock. Accordingly, the Plan and the Protective Amendment may limit a shareholder’s ability to realize a premium over the market price of AIG Common Stock in connection with any stock transaction.

Changes to tax laws, including U.S. legislation enacted in late 2017, could increase our corporate taxes or make some of our products less attractive to consumers.On December 22, 2017 President Trump signed major tax legislation into law (Public Law 115-97) (the Tax Act). The Tax Act, known informally as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, reduced the statutory rate of U.S. federal corporate income tax to 21 percent and enacted numerous other changes impacting AIG and the insurance industry.

The reduction in the statutory U.S. federal corporate income tax rate is expected to positively impact AIG’s future U.S. after-tax earnings. Other changes in the Tax Act that broaden the tax base by reducing or eliminating deductions for certain items (e.g., reductions to separate account dividends received deductions, disallowance of entertainment expenses, and limitations on the deduction of certain executive compensation costs) will offset a portion of the benefits from the lower statutory rate. Other specific changes, including the calculation of insurance tax reserves and the amortization of deferred acquisition costs, will impact the timing of our tax expense items and could impact the pricing of certain insurance products.

In addition to changing the taxation of corporations in general and insurance companies in particular, the Tax Act temporarily reduced certain tax rates for individuals and increased the exemption for the federal estate tax. These changes could reduce demand in the U.S. for life insurance and annuity contracts, which would reduce our income due to lower sales of these products or potential increased surrenders of in-force business.

Furthermore, the overall impact of the Tax Act is subject to the effect of other complex provisions in the Tax Act (including the base erosion and anti-abuse tax (BEAT) and global intangible low-taxed income (GILTI)), which reduce a portion of the benefit from the lower statutory U.S. federal rate. While the U.S. tax authorities issued formal guidance and recently issued proposed and final regulations for BEAT and other provisions of the Tax Act, there are still certain aspects of the Tax Act that remain unclear. AIG will continue to review the impact of BEAT, GILTI and related provisions as further guidance is issued. Any further guidance may result in changes to the interpretations and assumptions we made and actions we may take, which as a result may impact the amounts recorded with respect to international provisions of the Tax Act, possibly materially.

In addition, new tax laws outside the U.S. similar to BEAT or enacted in response to proposals by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development could make substantive changes to the global international tax regime. Such changes could impact cross border reinsurance transactions, which could increase our tax costs globally.

Finally, it is possible that tax laws will be further changed either in a technical corrections bill or entirely new legislation. It remains difficult to predict whether or when there will be any tax law changes or further guidance by the authorities in the U.S. or elsewhere in the world having a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, liquidity and financial condition, as the impact of broad proposals on our business can vary substantially depending upon the specific changes or further guidance made and how the changes or guidance are implemented by the authorities.

For additional information see Item 7. MD&A – Consolidated Results of Operations – U.S. Tax Reform Overview.

32AIG | 2019 Form 10-K



TABLE OF CONTENTSITEM 1A |Risk Factors

COMPETITION and employees

We face intense competition in each of our businesses.Our businesses operate in highly competitive environments, both domestically and overseas. Our principal competitors are other large multinational insurance organizations, as well as banks, investment banks and other nonbank financial institutions. The insurance industry in particular is highly competitive. Within the U.S., our General Insurance companies compete with other stock companies, specialty insurance organizations, mutual insurance companies and other underwriting organizations. Our Life and Retirement companies compete in the U.S. with life insurance companies and other participants in related financial services fields. Overseas, our subsidiaries compete for business with the foreign insurance operations of large U.S. insurers and with global insurance groups and local companies.

Technological advancements and innovation in the insurance industry, including those related to evolving customer preferences and the digitization of insurance products may present competitive risks. Technological advancements and innovation are occurring in distribution, underwriting, claims and operations at a rapid pace, and that pace may increase, particularly as companies increasingly use data analytics and technology as part of their business strategy. While we seek opportunities to leverage technological advancements and innovation for our customers’ benefit, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected if external technological advancements or innovation, or the regulation of technological advancements or innovation, limit our ability to retain existing business, write new business at adequate rates or on appropriate terms, render our insurance products less suitable or impact our ability to adapt or deploy current products as quickly and effectively as our competitors.

Reductions of our credit ratings or IFS ratings or negative publicity may make it more difficult to compete to retain existing customers and to maintain our historical levels of business with existing customers and counterparties. General Insurance companies and Life and Retirement companies compete through a combination of risk acceptance criteria, product pricing, and terms and conditions. Retirement services companies compete through crediting rates and the issuance of guaranteed benefits. A decline in our position as to any one or more of these factors could adversely affect our profitability.

Competition for employees in our industry is intense, and we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled people we need to support our business.Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people. Due to the intense competition in our industry for key employees with demonstrated ability, we may be unable to hire or retain such employees. In addition, we may experience higher than expected employee turnover and difficulty attracting new employees as a result of uncertainty from strategic actions and organizational and operational changes. Losing any of our key people also could have a material adverse effect on our operations given their skills, knowledge of our business, years of industry experience and the potential difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement employees. Our business and consolidated results of operations could be materially adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in attracting and retaining key employees.

Managing key employee succession and retention is critical to our success.We would be adversely affected if we fail to adequately plan for the succession of our senior management and other key employees. While we have succession plans and long-term compensation plans designed to retain our employees, our succession plans may not operate effectively and our compensation plans cannot guarantee that the services of these employees will continue to be available to us.

Employee error and misconduct may be difficult to detect and prevent and may result in significant losses.There have been a number of cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry in recent years and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur. Instances of fraud, illegal acts, errors, failure to document transactions properly or to obtain proper internal authorization, misuse of customer or proprietary information, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements or our internal policies may result in losses and/or reputational damage. It is not always possible to deter or prevent employee misconduct, and the controls that we have in place to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases.

We may not be able to protect our intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims.

AIG | 2019 Form 10-K33



TABLE OF CONTENTSITEM 1A |Risk Factors

ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS

Estimates used in the preparation of financial statements and modeled results used in various areas of our business may differ materially from actual experience.Our financial statements are prepared in conformity with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (U.S. GAAP), which requires the application of accounting policies that often involve a significant degree of judgment.The accounting policies that we consider most dependent on the application of estimates and assumptions, and therefore may be viewed as critical accounting estimates, are described in Item 7. MD&A — Critical Accounting Estimates. These accounting estimates require the use of assumptions, some of which are highly uncertain at the time of estimation. These estimates are based on judgment, current facts and circumstances, and, when applicable, internally developed models. Therefore, actual results could differ from these estimates, possibly in the near term, and could have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements.

In addition, we employ models to price products, calculate reserves and value assets, as well as evaluate risk and determine capital requirements, among other uses. These models rely on estimates and projections that are inherently uncertain, may use incomplete, outdated or incorrect data or assumptions and may not operate properly. To the extent that any of our operating practices and procedures do not accurately produce, or reproduce, data that we use to conduct any or all aspects of our business, such errors may negatively impact our business, reputation, results of operations, and financial condition. For example, modeling for man-made catastrophes, such as terrorism and cyber events is especially difficult and less reliable given such models are in the early stages of development and therefore, not widely adopted or available. As our businesses continue to expand and evolve, the number and complexity of models we employ has grown, increasing our inherent exposure to error in the design, implementation or use of models, including the associated input data, controls and assumptions, and the controls we have in place to mitigate their risk may not be effective in all cases.

Changes in accounting principles and financial reporting requirements impact our consolidated results of operations and financial condition.Our financial statements are subject to the application of U.S. GAAP, which is periodically revised. Accordingly, from time to time, we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB).

The FASB has revised the accounting standards for insurance contracts. The FASB-adopted standards as of December 31, 2017 focused on disclosures for short-duration insurance contracts, which primarily relate to our property casualty products. In addition, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2018-12 – Targeted Improvements to the Accounting for Long-Duration Contracts, which has an effective date of January 1, 2022 and will significantly change the accounting measurements and disclosures for long-duration insurance contracts, which primarily relates to our life and annuity products. Changes to the manner in which we account for long-duration products could impact our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.

The FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13 – Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments, which took effect on January 1, 2020. This standard changes how we account for credit losses for most financial assets, premiums receivable and reinsurance receivables. The standard replaces the existing incurred loss impairment model with a new “current expected credit loss model” that generally will result in earlier recognition of credit losses. The standard applies to financial assets subject to credit losses, including loans measured at amortized cost, reinsurance receivables and certain off-balance sheet credit exposures. Additionally, the impairment of available-for-sale debt securities, including purchased credit deteriorated securities, are subject to the new guidance and are measured in a similar manner, except that losses will be recognized as allowances rather than reductions in the amortized cost of the securities. The standard impacts our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and financial condition and will require additional information to be disclosed in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

The adoption of the newly issued standards as well as other future accounting standards could impact our reported consolidated results of operations, liquidity and reported financial condition.

For a discussion of the impact of accounting pronouncements that have been issued but are not yet required to be implemented see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Changes in our assumptions regarding the discount rate and expected rate of return for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans may result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability.We determine our pension and other postretirement benefit plan costs based on assumed discount rates, expected rates of return on plan assets and trends in health care costs. Changes in these assumptions, including from the impact of a sustained low interest rate environment or rapidly rising interest rates, may result in increased expenses which could impact our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.

For further details on our pension and postretirement benefit plans see Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.



34AIG | 2019 Form 10-K



TABLE OF CONTENTSITEM 1A |Risk Factors

If our businesses do not perform well and/or their estimated fair values decline, we may be required to recognize an impairment of our goodwill or to establish a valuation allowance against the deferred income tax assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.



Goodwill represents the excess of the amounts we paid to acquire subsidiaries and other businesses over the fair value of their net assets at the date of acquisition. We test goodwill at least annually for impairment. Impairment testing is performed based upon estimates of the fair value of the “reporting unit” to which the goodwill relates. The fair value of the reporting unit is impacted by the performance of the business and could be adversely impacted if new business, customer retention, profitability or other drivers of performance differ from expectations, or upon the occurrence of certain events, including a significant and adverse change in regulations, legal factors, accounting standards or business climate, or an adverse action or assessment by a regulator. If it is determined that goodwill has been impaired, we must write down goodwill by the amount of the impairment, with a corresponding charge to net income (loss). These write-downs could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.



For further discussion regarding goodwill impairment, see Item 7. MD&A – Critical Accounting Estimates – Impairment Charges – Goodwill Impairment and Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Deferred income tax represents the tax effect of the differences between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets are assessed periodically by management to determine if they are realizable. The performance of the business, including the ability to generate future taxable income from a variety of sources and planning strategies, is factored into management’s determination. If, based on available evidence, it is more likely than not that the deferred tax asset will not be realized, then a valuation allowance must be established with a corresponding charge to net income. Such charges could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.For further discussion regarding deferred tax assets, see Item 7. MD&A – Critical Accounting Estimates – Income Taxes and Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.





