ITEM 1.    BUSINESS

Overview

We are a leading, diversified, multi-jurisdictional owner and manager of gaming and pari-mutuel properties. The Company was
incorporated in Pennsylvania in 1982 as PNRC Corp. and adopted its current name in 1994, when the Company became a publicly traded company. In 1997, we began our transition from a pari-mutuel company
to a diversified gaming company with the acquisition of the Charles Town property and the introduction of video lottery terminals in West Virginia. Since 1997, we have continued to expand our gaming
operations through strategic acquisitions, greenfield projects, and property expansions. We, along with our joint venture partner, opened Hollywood Casino at Kansas Speedway on February 3,
2012. In Ohio, we have opened four new gaming properties over the last three years, including: Hollywood Casino Toledo on May 29, 2012, Hollywood Casino Columbus on October 8, 2012,
Hollywood Gaming at Dayton Raceway on August 28, 2014, and Hollywood Gaming at Mahoning Valley Race Course on September 17, 2014. In addition, on November 2, 2012, we acquired
Harrah's St. Louis, which we subsequently rebranded as Hollywood Casino St. Louis. Finally, we are in the process of constructing Plainridge Park Casino, an integrated racing and gaming
facility in Plainville, Massachusetts, which we expect to open in June 2015, as well as the Jamul development project near San Diego, California, which we anticipate completing in mid-2016.

We
believe that our portfolio of assets provides us the benefit of a geographically diversified cash flow from operations. We continue to expand our gaming operations through the
implementation and execution of a disciplined capital expenditure program at our existing properties, the pursuit of strategic acquisitions and the development of new gaming properties, particularly
in attractive regional markets.

In
this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the terms "we," "us," "our," the "Company" and "Penn" refer to Penn National Gaming, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context
indicates otherwise.

Spin-Off of Real Estate Assets through a Real Estate Investment Trust

On November 1, 2013, the Company completed its plan to separate its gaming operating assets from its real property assets by
creating a newly formed, publicly traded real estate investment trust ("REIT"), known as Gaming and Leisure Properties, Inc. ("GLPI"), through a tax free spin-off (the "Spin-Off"). Penn
effected the Spin-Off by distributing one share of common stock of GLPI to the holders of Penn common stock and Series C Convertible Preferred Stock ("Series C Preferred Stock") for
every share of Penn common stock and every 1/1000th of a share of Series C Preferred Stock that they held at the close of business on October 16, 2013, the record date for the
Spin-Off. Peter M. Carlino and the PMC Delaware Dynasty Trust dated September 25, 2013, a trust for the benefit of Mr. Carlino's children, also received additional shares of GLPI common
stock, in exchange for shares of Penn common stock that they transferred to Penn immediately prior to the
Spin-Off, and Mr. Carlino exchanged certain options to acquire Penn common stock for options to acquire GLPI common stock having the same aggregate intrinsic value. Penn engaged in these
exchanges with Mr. Carlino and his related trust to ensure that each member of the Carlino family beneficially owns 9.9% or less of the outstanding shares of Penn common stock following the
Spin-Off, so that GLPI can qualify to be taxed as a REIT for United States ("U.S.") federal income tax purposes.

In
addition, through a series of internal corporate restructurings, Penn contributed to GLPI substantially all of the assets and liabilities associated with Penn's real property
interests and real estate development business, as well as all of the assets and liabilities of Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge and Hollywood Casino Perryville, which are referred to as the "TRS
Properties." As a result of the Spin-Off, GLPI owns substantially all of Penn's former real property assets and leases back those assets (other than the TRS Properties) to Penn for use by its
subsidiaries, under a "triple net" master lease









agreement
(the "Master Lease") (which has a fifteen-year initial term that can be extended at Penn's option for up to four five-year renewal terms), as well as owns and operates the TRS Properties.
Penn continues to operate the leased gaming facilities and hold the associated gaming licenses with these facilities. As a result of the Spin-Off, the Company's results for the year ended
December 31, 2013 only include the TRS Properties for the period January 1, 2013 through October 31, 2013.

The
Company received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service relating to the tax treatment of the separation and the qualification of GLPI as a REIT. The private letter
ruling is subject to certain qualifications and based on certain representations and statements made by the Company and certain of its shareholders. If such representations and statements are untrue
or incomplete in any material respect (including as a result of a material change in the transaction or other relevant facts), the Company may not be able to rely on the private letter ruling. The
Company received opinions from outside counsel regarding certain aspects of the transaction that are not covered by the private letter ruling.

Prior
to the Spin-Off, we entered into a Separation and Distribution Agreement with GLPI setting forth the mechanics of the Spin-Off, certain organizational matters and other ongoing
obligations of the Company and GLPI. The Company and GLPI or their respective subsidiaries, as applicable, also entered into a number of other agreements prior to the Spin-Off to provide a framework
for the restructuring and for the relationships between GLPI and the Company.

Master Lease

As of December 31, 2014, the Company leased from GLPI real property assets associated with eighteen of the Company's gaming and
related facilities used in the Company's operations. Our two projects currently under development, Plainridge Park Casino and a Hollywood Casino branded facility with the Jamul Tribe, are not subject
to the Master Lease. The following summary of the Master Lease is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Master Lease attached hereto as Exhibit 10.20.

The
rent structure under the Master Lease, which became effective November 1, 2013, includes a fixed component, a portion of which is subject to an annual escalator of up to 2% if
certain rent coverage ratio thresholds are met, and a component that is based on the performance of the facilities, which is prospectively adjusted, subject to a floor of zero (i) every five
years by an amount equal to 4% of the average change to net revenues of all facilities under the Master Lease (other than Hollywood Casino Columbus and Hollywood Casino Toledo) during the preceding
five years, and (ii) monthly by an amount equal to 20% of the change in net revenues of Hollywood Casino Columbus and Hollywood Casino Toledo during the preceding month. In addition, with the
openings of Hollywood Gaming at Dayton Raceway and Hollywood Gaming at Mahoning Valley Race Course in the third quarter of 2014, these properties began paying rent subject to the terms of the Master
Lease, which had the impact of increasing our annual rental expense related to the Master Lease by approximately $19 million, which approximates ten percent of the real estate construction
costs paid for by GLPI related to these facilities.

In
April 2014, an amendment to the Master Lease was entered into in order to revise certain provisions relating to our Sioux City property. In accordance with the amendment, upon the
ceasing of gaming operations at Argosy Casino Sioux City on July 30, 2014 due to the termination of its gaming license, the annual rent payable to GLPI was reduced by $6.2 million.
Additionally, the Company finalized its calculation of rent coverage in accordance with the appropriate provisions of the Master Lease to determine if an annual base rent escalator is due. The
calculation of the escalator resulted in an increase to our annual rent expense of $3.2 million starting November 1, 2014.

The
Master Lease is commonly known as a triple-net lease. Accordingly, in addition to rent, the Company is required to pay the following, among other things: (1) all facility
maintenance; (2) all insurance required in connection with the leased properties and the business conducted on the leased









properties;
(3) taxes levied on or with respect to the leased properties (other than taxes on the income of the lessor); and (4) all utilities and other services necessary or appropriate
for the leased properties and the business conducted on the leased properties.

At
the Company's option, the Master Lease may be extended for up to four five-year renewal terms beyond the initial fifteen-year term, on the same terms and conditions. If we elect to
renew the term of the Master Lease, the renewal will be effective as to all, but not less than all, of the leased property then subject to the Master Lease, provided that the final renewal option
shall only be exercisable with respect to certain of the barge-based facilities—i.e., facilities where barges serve as foundations upon which buildings are constructed to serve as
gaming or related facilities or serve ancillary purposes such as access platforms or shear barges to protect a gaming facility from floating debris—following an independent third party
expert's review of the total useful life of the applicable barged-based facility measured from the beginning of the initial term. If the final five-year renewal term would not cause the aggregate term
to exceed 80% of the useful life of such facility, the facility shall be included in the five-year renewal. In the event that a five-year renewal of such facility would cause it to exceed 80% of the
estimated useful life, such facility shall be included in the renewal for the period of time equal to but not exceeding 80% of the estimated useful life.

We
do not have the ability to terminate our obligations under the Master Lease prior to its expiration without GLPI's consent. If the Master Lease is terminated prior to its expiration
other than with GLPI's consent, we may be liable for damages and incur charges such as continued payment of rent through the end of the lease term and maintenance costs for the leased property.

Segment Information

Our Chief Executive Officer, who is the Company's Chief Operating Decision Maker ("CODM") as that term is defined in Financial
Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 280, "Segment Reporting" ("ASC 280"), measures and assesses the Company's business performance based on regional
operations of various properties grouped together based primarily on their geographic locations. In January 2014, the Company named Jay Snowden as its Chief Operating Officer and the Company decided
in connection with this announcement to re-align its reporting structure. Starting in January 2014, the Company's reportable segments are: (i) East/Midwest, (ii) West, and
(iii) Southern Plains. See "Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "Item 8—Financial Statements
and Supplementary Data—Note 16—Segment Information."

The
East/Midwest reportable segment consists of the following properties: Hollywood Casino at Charles Town Races, Hollywood Casino Bangor, Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course,
Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg, Hollywood Casino Toledo, which opened on May 29, 2012, Hollywood Casino Columbus, which opened on October 8, 2012, Hollywood Gaming at Dayton Raceway,
which opened on August 28, 2014, and Hollywood Gaming at Mahoning Valley Race Course, which opened on September 17, 2014. It also includes the Company's Casino Rama management service
contract and the Plainville project in Massachusetts which the Company expects to open in June 2015. It also previously included Hollywood Casino Perryville, which was contributed to GLPI on
November 1, 2013.

The
West reportable segment consists of the following properties: Zia Park Casino and the M Resort, as well as the Jamul development project, which the Company anticipates
completing in mid-2016.

The
Southern Plains reportable segment consists of the following properties: Hollywood Casino Aurora, Hollywood Casino Joliet, Argosy Casino Alton, Argosy Casino Riverside, Hollywood
Casino Tunica, Hollywood Casino Gulf Coast (formerly Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis), Boomtown Biloxi, and Hollywood Casino St. Louis (formerly Harrah's St. Louis which was
acquired from Caesars









Entertainment
on November 2, 2012), and includes the Company's 50% investment in Kansas Entertainment, LLC ("Kansas Entertainment"), which owns the Hollywood Casino at Kansas Speedway.
On July 30, 2014, the Company closed Argosy Casino Sioux City. This segment also previously included Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge, which was contributed to GLPI on November 1, 2013.

The
Other category consists of the Company's standalone racing operations, namely Rosecroft Raceway, Sanford-Orlando Kennel Club, and the Company's joint venture interests in Sam Houston
Race Park, Valley Race Park, and Freehold Raceway, as well as the Company's 50% joint venture with the Cordish Companies in New York which we expect to dissolve in 2015. It also previously included
the Company's Bullwhackers property, which was sold in July 2013. If the Company is successful in obtaining gaming operations at these locations, they would be assigned to one of the Company's
reportable segments. The Other category also includes the Company's corporate overhead operations which does not meet the definition of an operating segment under ASC 280.

Properties

As of December 31, 2014, we owned, managed, or had ownership interests in twenty-six facilities in the following seventeen
jurisdictions: Florida, Illinois, Indiana, Kansas, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Mississippi, Missouri, Nevada, New Jersey, New Mexico, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Texas, West Virginia, and Ontario. The
Company, along with its joint venture partner, opened Hollywood Casino at Kansas Speedway on February 3, 2012. In Ohio, the Company opened four new gaming properties over the last three years,
including: Hollywood Casino Toledo on May 29, 2012, Hollywood Casino Columbus on October 8, 2012, Hollywood Gaming at Dayton Raceway on August 28, 2014, and Hollywood Gaming at
Mahoning Valley Race Course on September 17, 2014. In addition, on November 2, 2012, the Company acquired Harrah's St. Louis, which we subsequently rebranded as Hollywood Casino
St. Louis. On July 30, 2014, the Company closed its facility in Sioux City, Iowa, and on July 1, 2013, the Company sold its Bullwhackers property located in Colorado. As such, the
Company no longer has any operations in Iowa and Colorado. Additionally, as a result of the Spin-Off, Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge in Louisiana and Hollywood Casino Perryville in Maryland were
contributed to GLPI on November 1, 2013.

The
real estate of the leased properties described below was contributed to GLPI as part of the Spin-Off; however, Penn continues to operate the leased gaming facilities. The following
table









summarizes
certain features of the leased properties operated and managed by us as of December 31, 2014:

Leased Properties





LocationType of FacilityApprox.PropertySquareFootage(1)GamingMachinesTableGames(2)HotelRooms

Hollywood Casino at Charles Town RacesCharles Town, WVLand-based gaming/Thoroughbred racing511,2492,67799153

Hollywood Casino LawrenceburgLawrenceburg, INDockside gaming634,0002,22371295

Hollywood Casino ToledoToledo, OHLand-based gaming285,3352,04360—

Hollywood Casino ColumbusColumbus, OHLand-based gaming354,0752,26878—

Hollywood Gaming at Dayton RacewayDayton, OHLand-based gaming/Standardbred racing191,037984——

Hollywood Gaming at Mahoning Valley Race CourseYoungstown, OHLand-based gaming/Thoroughbred racing177,448866——

Hollywood Casino St. LouisMaryland Heights, MOLand-based gaming645,2702,11257502

Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race CourseGrantville, PALand-based gaming/Thoroughbred racing451,7582,43354—

M ResortHenderson, NVLand-based gaming910,1731,34240390

Argosy Casino RiversideRiverside, MODockside gaming450,3971,47329258

Hollywood Casino Gulf CoastBay St. Louis, MSLand-based gaming425,9201,15119291

Hollywood Casino TunicaTunica, MSDockside gaming315,8311,09520494

Hollywood Casino AuroraAurora, ILDockside gaming222,1891,15721—

Boomtown BiloxiBiloxi, MSDockside gaming134,80096016—

Hollywood Casino JolietJoliet, ILDockside gaming322,4461,12623100

Hollywood Casino BangorBangor, MELand-based gaming/Harness racing257,08590012152

Argosy Casino Alton(3)Alton, ILDockside gaming241,76290712—

Argosy Casino Sioux City(4)Sioux City, IADockside gaming————

Zia Park CasinoHobbs, NMLand-based gaming/Thoroughbred racing193,645750—154

​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​

Total6,724,42026,4676112,789

​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​

​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​

​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​



(1)Square
footage includes conditioned space and excludes parking garages and barns.(2)Excludes
poker tables.(3)Excludes
the riverboat, which continues to be owned by Penn.(4)This
facility was closed on July 30, 2014.

The
following table summarizes certain features of the other properties owned and operated, or managed, by us as of December 31, 2014:

Other Properties

LocationType of FacilityApprox.PropertySquareFootage(1)GamingMachinesTableGames(2)HotelRoomsOwned Properties:Hollywood Casino at Kansas Speedway(3)Kansas City, KSLand-based gaming244,7912,00040—Beulah Park(4)Grove City, OHThoroughbred racing————Freehold Raceway(5)Freehold, NJStandardbred racing132,865———Raceway Park(6)Toledo, OHStandardbred racing————Rosecroft RacewayOxon Hill, MDStandardbred racing183,950———Sanford-Orlando Kennel ClubLongwood, FLGreyhound racing58,940———Plainridge Racecourse(7)Plainville, MAHarness racing55,230———Sam Houston Race Park(8)Houston, TXThoroughbred racing283,383———Valley Race Park(8)Harlingen, TXGreyhound racing118,216———Managed Property:Casino Rama(9)Orillia, OntarioLand-based gaming864,0472,499106289​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Total1,941,4224,499146289​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​

(1)Square
footage includes conditioned space and excludes parking garages and barns.(2)Excludes
poker tables.(3)Pursuant
to a joint venture with International Speedway Corporation ("International Speedway").









(4)Operations
for this property have been relocated to Hollywood Gaming at Mahoning Valley Race Course located in Austintown, Ohio. The facility closed on
May 3, 2014.(5)Pursuant
to a joint venture with Greenwood Limited Jersey, Inc., a subsidiary of Greenwood Racing, Inc.(6)Operations
for this property have been relocated to Hollywood Gaming at Dayton Raceway located in Dayton, Ohio. The facility closed on June 30, 2014.(7)Slots
parlor under construction anticipated to open in June 2015.(8)Pursuant
to a joint venture with MAXXAM, Inc. ("MAXXAM").(9)Pursuant
to a management contract.

As
mentioned above, we organize the properties we operate, manage and own, as applicable, into three segments, East/Midwest, West and Southern Plains. Below is a description of each of
our properties by segment.

East/Midwest Properties

Hollywood Casino at Charles Town Races

Hollywood Casino at Charles Town Races is located in Charles Town, West Virginia, within approximately a one-hour drive of the
Baltimore, Maryland and Washington, D.C. markets. Hollywood Casino at Charles Town Races features 511,249 of property square footage with 2,677 gaming machines, 99 table games and 26 poker tables and
a 153-room hotel. Hollywood Casino at Charles Town Races also features various dining options, including a high-end steakhouse, a sports bar and entertainment lounge, as well as an Asian themed
restaurant. The complex also features live thoroughbred racing at a3/4-mile all-weather lighted thoroughbred racetrack with a 3,000-seat grandstand, parking for 5,781 vehicles and
simulcast wagering and dining.

Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course

Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course is located in Grantville, Pennsylvania, which is 15 miles northeast of Harrisburg.
Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course features 451,758 of property square footage with 2,433 slot machines, 54 table games and 16 poker tables. The facility also includes an entertainment bar
and lounge, a sports bar, a buffet, a high-end steakhouse and various casual dining options, as well as a simulcast facility and viewing area for live racing. The facility has ample parking, including
a five-story self-parking garage, with capacity for approximately 2,200 cars, and approximately 1,500 surface parking spaces for self and valet parking. The property includes a one-mile all-weather
lighted thoroughbred racetrack and a7/8-mile turf track. The property also includes 393 acres that are available for future expansion or development.

Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg

Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg is located on the Ohio River in Lawrenceburg, Indiana, approximately 15 miles west of Cincinnati. The
Hollywood-themed casino riverboat has 634,000 square feet of property square footage with 2,223 slot machines, 71 table games and 19 poker tables. Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg also includes a
295-room hotel, as well as a restaurant, a bar, a nightclub, a sports bar, two cafes and meeting space.

The
City of Lawrenceburg Department of Redevelopment has recently completed construction of a hotel and event center located less than a mile away from our Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg
property. Effective in mid January 2015, by contractual agreement, the hotel and event center is owned and operated by a subsidiary of the Company. The hotel and event center includes 168 rooms,
approximately 18,000 square feet of multipurpose space and 19,500 square feet of ballroom and meeting space.







Hollywood Casino Toledo

Hollywood Casino Toledo is located in Toledo, Ohio and opened on May 29, 2012. Hollywood Casino Toledo is a Hollywood-themed
casino featuring 285,335 of property square footage with 2,043 slot machines, 60 table games and 20 poker tables. Hollywood Casino Toledo also includes multiple food and beverage outlets, an
entertainment lounge, and structured and surface parking for approximately 3,300 spaces.

Hollywood Casino Columbus

Hollywood Casino Columbus is located in Columbus, Ohio and opened on October 8, 2012. Hollywood Casino Columbus is a
Hollywood-themed casino featuring 354,075 of property square footage with 2,268 slot machines, 78 table games and 36 poker tables. Hollywood
Casino Columbus also includes multiple food and beverage outlets, an entertainment lounge, and structured and surface parking for 4,616 spaces.

Hollywood Gaming at Dayton Raceway

Hollywood Gaming at Dayton Raceway is located in Dayton, Ohio and opened on August 28, 2014. Hollywood Gaming at Dayton Raceway
is a Hollywood-themed facility featuring 191,037 of property square footage with 984 video lottery terminals and a5/8-mile standardbred racetrack. Hollywood Gaming at Dayton Raceway
also includes various restaurants, bars, surface parking for 1,800 spaces and other amenities.

Hollywood Gaming at Mahoning Valley Race Course

Hollywood Gaming at Mahoning Valley Race Course is located in Youngstown, Ohio and opened on September 17, 2014. Hollywood
Gaming at Mahoning Valley Race Course is a Hollywood-themed facility featuring 177,448 of property square footage with 866 video lottery terminals and a one-mile thoroughbred racetrack. Hollywood
Gaming at Mahoning Valley Race Course also includes various restaurants, bars, surface parking for 1,251 spaces and other amenities.

Hollywood Casino Bangor

Hollywood Casino Bangor, which is located in Bangor, Maine, includes 257,085 of property square footage with 900 slot machines, 12
table games and 4 poker tables. Hollywood Casino Bangor's amenities include a 152-room hotel with 5,119 square feet of meeting and multipurpose space, three eateries, a buffet, a snack bar and a
casual dining restaurant, a small entertainment stage, and a four-story parking garage with 1,500 spaces. Bangor Raceway, which is adjacent to the property, is located at historic Bass Park and
includes a one-half mile standardbred racetrack and grandstand to seat 3,500 patrons.

Casino Rama

Through CHC Casinos Canada Limited ("CHC Casinos"), our indirectly wholly-owned subsidiary, we manage Casino Rama, a full service
gaming and entertainment facility, on behalf of the Ontario Lottery and Gaming Corporation ("OLGC"), an agency of the Province of Ontario. Casino Rama is located on the lands of the Rama First Nation,
approximately 90 miles north of Toronto. The property has 864,047 of property square footage with 2,499 gaming machines, 106 table games and 12 poker tables. In addition, the property includes a
5,000-seat entertainment facility, a 289-room hotel and 3,642 surface parking spaces.

The
Development and Operating Agreement (the "Agreement"), which we refer to as the management service contract for Casino Rama, sets out the duties, rights and obligations of









CHC Casinos
and our indirectly wholly-owned subsidiary, CRC Holdings, Inc. The compensation under the Agreement is a base fee equal to 2.0% of gross revenues of the casino and an
incentive fee equal to 5.0% of the casino's net operating profit.

In
June 2014, we signed an agreement to extend the Casino Rama Agreement on a month-to-month basis with a 60-day notice period for up to a maximum period of forty-eight months. There can
be no assurance as to how long the OLGC will continue to engage us to manage the property.

East/Midwest Development Projects

Plainridge Racecourse is a5/8-mile live-harness racing facility situated on 89 acres with an approximate 55,000 square
foot, two story clubhouse for simulcast operations and live racing viewing. Plainridge Racecourse is located 20 miles southwest of the Boston beltway just off interstate 95 in Plainville,
Massachusetts. On February 28, 2014, the Massachusetts Gaming Commission awarded the Company a Category Two slots-only gaming license, and on March 14, 2014, the Company broke ground on
the development of Plainridge Park Casino. Plainridge Park Casino is anticipated to be a $225 million (including licensing fees) fully integrated racing and gaming facility featuring live
harness racing and simulcasting with 1,250 gaming devices, various dining and entertainment options, structured and surface parking, and a two story clubhouse with approximately 55,000 square feet. We
expect Plainridge Park Casino to open in June 2015.

West Properties

M Resort

The M Resort, located approximately ten miles from the Las Vegas strip in Henderson, Nevada, is situated on over 90 acres on the
southeast corner of Las Vegas Boulevard and St. Rose Parkway. The resort features 910,173 of property square footage with 1,342 slot machines and 40 table games. The M Resort also offers
390 guest rooms and suites, six restaurants and six destination bars, more than 60,000 square feet of meeting and conference space, a 4,700 space parking facility, a spa and fitness center and a
100,000 square foot events piazza.

Zia Park Casino

Zia Park Casino is located in Hobbs, New Mexico and includes a casino, as well as an adjoining racetrack. The property includes 193,645
of property square footage with 750 slot machines and two restaurants. The property has a one-mile quarter/thoroughbred racetrack, with live racing from September to December, and a year-round
simulcast parlor. In August 2014, we opened a new hotel, which includes 148 rooms, six suites, a board/meeting room, exercise/fitness facilities and a breakfast venue.

Southern Plains Properties

Hollywood Casino Aurora

Hollywood Casino Aurora, part of the Chicagoland market, is located in Aurora, Illinois, the second largest city in Illinois,
approximately 35 miles west of Chicago. This single-level dockside casino provides 222,189 of property square footage with 1,157 slot machines, 21 gaming tables and 6 poker tables. The facility
features a steakhouse with a private dining room, a VIP lounge for premium players, a casino bar with video poker, a buffet, and a deli. Hollywood Casino Aurora also has a surface parking lot, two
parking garages with approximately 1,500 parking spaces, and a gift shop.









Hollywood Casino Joliet

Hollywood Casino Joliet, part of the Chicagoland market, is located on the Des Plaines River in Joliet, Illinois, approximately 40
miles southwest of Chicago. This barge-based casino provides two levels with 1,126 slot machines, 23 table games and 3 poker tables. The land-based pavilion includes a steakhouse, a buffet and a
sports bar. The casino barge includes a deli and entertainment lounge. The complex also includes a 100-room hotel, a 1,100 space parking garage, surface parking areas with approximately 1,500 spaces
and an 80-space recreational vehicle park. In total, the facility includes 322,446 of property square footage.

Argosy Casino Alton

Argosy Casino Alton is located on the Mississippi River in Alton, Illinois, approximately 20 miles northeast of downtown
St. Louis. Argosy Casino Alton is a three-deck gaming facility featuring 241,762 of property square footage with 907 slot machines and 12 table games. Argosy Casino Alton includes an
entertainment pavilion and features a 214-seat buffet, a restaurant, a deli and a 475-seat main showroom. The facility also includes surface parking areas with 1,341 spaces.

Hollywood Casino Gulf Coast

Hollywood Casino Gulf Coast (formerly Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis), which is located in Bay St. Louis,
Mississippi, features 425,920 of property square footage with 1,151 slot machines, 19 table games, and 5 poker tables. The waterfront Hollywood Hotel features 291 rooms, a 10,000 square foot
ballroom, and nine separate meeting rooms offering more than 14,000 square feet of meeting space. Hollywood Casino Gulf Coast offers live concerts and various entertainment on weekends. The property
also features The Bridges golf course, an 18-hole championship golf course. Hollywood Casino Gulf Coast has various dining facilities including a steakhouse, a buffet, a casual dining room and a
clubhouse lounge as well as an entertainment bar. Other amenities include a recreational vehicle park with 100 spaces and a gift shop.

Argosy Casino Riverside

Argosy Casino Riverside is located on the Missouri River, approximately five miles from downtown Kansas City in Riverside, Missouri.
The property features 450,397 of property square footage with 1,473 slot machines and 29 table games. This Mediterranean-themed casino and hotel features a nine-story, 258-room hotel and spa,
an entertainment facility featuring various food and beverage areas, including a buffet, a steakhouse, a deli, a coffee bar, a VIP lounge and a sports/entertainment lounge and 19,000 square feet of
banquet/conference facilities. Argosy Casino Riverside also has parking for approximately 3,000 vehicles, including a 1,250 space parking garage.

Hollywood Casino Tunica

Hollywood Casino Tunica is located in Tunica, Mississippi. This single-level property features 315,831 of property square footage with
1,095 slot machines, 20 table games and 6 poker tables. Hollywood Casino Tunica also has a 494-room hotel and 123-space recreational vehicle park. Entertainment amenities include a steakhouse, a
buffet, a grill, an entertainment lounge, a premium players' club, a themed bar facility, an indoor pool and showroom as well as banquet and meeting facilities. In addition, Hollywood Casino Tunica
offers surface parking with 1,635 spaces.

Boomtown Biloxi

Boomtown Biloxi is located in Biloxi, Mississippi and offers 134,800 of property square footage with 960 slot machines and 16 table
games. It features a buffet, a steakhouse, a 24-hour grill, and a bakery. Boomtown Biloxi also has 1,450 surface parking spaces.









Hollywood Casino at Kansas Speedway

Hollywood Casino at Kansas Speedway, our 50% joint venture with International Speedway, is located in Kansas City, Kansas and opened on
February 3, 2012. The facility features 244,791 of property square footage with 2,000 slot machines, 40 table games and 12 poker tables. Hollywood Casino at Kansas Speedway offers a variety of
dining and entertainment facilities as well as has a 1,253 space parking structure.

Hollywood Casino St. Louis

Hollywood Casino St. Louis is located adjacent to the Missouri River in Maryland Heights, Missouri, directly off I-70 and
approximately 22 miles northwest of downtown St. Louis, Missouri. The facility is situated on 248 acres along the Missouri River and features 645,270 of property square footage with 2,112 slot
machines, 57 table games, 21 poker tables, a 502 guestroom hotel, nine dining and entertainment venues and structured and surface parking for approximately 4,600 spaces. At the end of 2013, we
completed the transition of the property to our Hollywood Casino brand name.

Other Properties

Rosecroft Raceway

Rosecroft Raceway, located approximately 13 miles south of Washington, D.C., is situated on 125 acres just outside the
Washington I-495 Beltway in Prince George's county, Maryland. The Rosecroft facility features a5/8-mile standardbred race track with a seven race paddock, a 53,000 square foot
grandstand building, and a 96,000 square foot three story clubhouse building with dining facilities.

Sanford-Orlando Kennel Club

Sanford-Orlando Kennel Club is a1/4-mile greyhound facility located in Longwood, Florida. The facility has capacity for
6,500 patrons, with seating for 4,000 and surface parking for 2,500 vehicles. The facility conducts year-round greyhound racing and greyhound, thoroughbred, and harness racing simulcasts.

Freehold Raceway

Through our joint venture in Pennwood Racing, Inc. ("Pennwood"), we own 50% of Freehold Raceway, located in Freehold, New
Jersey. The property features a half-mile standardbred race track and a 117,715 square foot grandstand.

Sam Houston Race Park and Valley Race Park

Our joint venture with MAXXAM owns and operates the Sam Houston Race Park in Houston, Texas and the Valley Race Park in Harlingen,
Texas, and holds a license for a planned racetrack in Laredo, Texas. Sam Houston Race Park is located 15 miles northwest from downtown Houston along Beltway 8. Sam Houston Race Park hosts thoroughbred
and quarter horse racing and offers daily simulcast operations, as well as hosts various special events, private parties and meetings, concerts and national touring festivals throughout the year.
Valley Race Park features 118,216 of property square footage as a dog racing and simulcasting facility located in Harlingen, Texas.

Off-track Wagering Facilities

Our off-track wagering facilities ("OTWs") and racetracks provide areas for viewing import simulcast races of thoroughbred and
standardbred horse racing, televised sporting events, placing pari-mutuel wagers and dining. We operate three OTWs in Pennsylvania, and through our joint venture in Pennwood, we own 50% of a leased
OTW in Toms River, New Jersey. In addition, in accordance









with
an operating agreement with Pennwood, the Company constructed an OTW in Gloucester Township, New Jersey, which opened in July 2014. Per the operating agreement, this OTW is operated
by us; however, Pennwood has the option to purchase the OTW once the Company has received its total investment as defined in the operating agreement.

Trademarks

We own a number of trademarks and service marks registered with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office ("U.S. PTO"), including but not
limited to, "Hollywood Casino®," "Hollywood Gaming®," "Argosy®," "M Resort®," "Hollywood Poker®," "Marquee Rewards®" and
"Telebet®." We believe that our rights to our marks are well established and have competitive value to our properties. We also have a number of trademark applications pending with the U.S.
PTO.

Pursuant
to a License Agreement with Boomtown, Inc., dated August 8, 2000, our subsidiary BTN, LLC (successor to BTN, Inc.) uses "Boomtown" and other
trademarks.

Competition

Our
racing operations face significant competition for wagering dollars from other racetracks and OTWs, some of which also offer other forms of gaming, as well as other gaming venues
such as casinos. Additionally, for a number of years, there has been a general decline in the number of people
attending and wagering on live horse races at North American racetracks due to a number of factors, including increased competition from other wagering and entertainment alternatives and unwillingness
of customers to travel a significant distance to racetracks. Our account wagering operations compete with other providers of such services throughout the country. We also may face competition in the
future from new OTWs, new racetracks, instant racing, or new providers of account wagering. From time to time, states consider legislation to permit other forms of gaming. If additional gaming
opportunities become available near our racing operations, such gaming opportunities could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

East/Midwest.On June 6, 2012, a casino complex opened at the Anne Arundel Mills mall in Anne Arundel, Maryland, with
approximately 3,200 slot
machines and significantly increased its slot machine offerings by mid-September 2012 to approximately 4,750 slot machines. In addition, the Anne Arundel facility opened table games on
April 11, 2013 and opened a 52 table poker room in late August 2013. The opening of this casino complex has and will continue to have a significant impact on the financial results of Hollywood
Casino at Charles Town Races and to a lesser extent Hollywood









Casino
at Penn National Race Course. However, the Horseshoe Baltimore Casino, which opened at the end of August 2014, has currently not had a significant negative impact on our operations at Charles
Town. However, it may negatively impact our operations there in 2015 as the new facility becomes more established. In May 2013, three different bidders, including the Company, submitted proposals for
a Prince George casino. In December 2013, the license for Prince George County was granted to MGM. The proposed $1.2 billion casino, which MGM plans to open in the second half of 2016, is
anticipated to adversely impact our financial results as it will create additional competition for Hollywood Casino at Charles Town Races.

A
casino in Cincinnati, Ohio, which is the primary feeder market for our Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg property, opened on March 4, 2013 and has had and will continue to have an
adverse impact on Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg. We opened Hollywood Casino Toledo on May 29, 2012 and Hollywood Casino Columbus on October 8, 2012. Additionally, the State of Ohio
approved the placement of video lottery terminals at the state's seven racetracks. On June 1, 2012, a new racino at Scioto Downs in Columbus, Ohio opened, which has had a negative impact on
Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg's financial results and competes aggressively in the same market as Hollywood Casino Columbus. In addition, a new racino at Miami Valley Gaming (formerly known as Lebanon
Raceway) opened in mid-December 2013, and a racino at Belterra Park (formerly known as River Downs) opened in May 2014. Both of these racinos compete with Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg. Conversely, we
have opened our own racinos in Ohio, with Hollywood Gaming at Dayton Raceway opening on August 28, 2014 and Hollywood Gaming at Mahoning Valley Race Course opening on September 17, 2014.
As a result, in a relatively short period of time, Ohio has gone from having no gaming facilities to having four casinos and seven video lottery terminal facilities. In addition, we continue to fight
illegal gaming operations, such as internet sweepstakes.

In
addition, legislators in Kentucky are currently considering gaming legislation. The commencement of gaming in Kentucky would negatively impact certain of our existing properties in
the East/Midwest segment. Finally, Indiana and Pennsylvania are considering the potential legalization of gaming at taverns.

West.Our West segment contains our M Resort property which caters to the Las Vegas locals market. The strength of the Las Vegas locals
market is
partially linked to the health of the Las Vegas strip. Weakness in this market may negatively impact the Las Vegas locals market, including our M Resort property.

Southern Plains.In Illinois, there have been perennial gaming expansion proposals introduced in the legislature, which we expect to
continue.
Additionally, in July 2011, the Illinois Supreme Court, in a unanimous ruling, cleared the way for the 2009 Illinois Video Gaming Act to go forward, which authorized a limited number of video gaming
terminals in licensed bars and taverns across Illinois, subject to host community approval. In October 2012, video gambling in Illinois was officially launched with the first locations being allowed
to operate video gaming terminals. Currently, there are over 19,000 terminals at numerous locations throughout the state, which has had a negative impact on our casinos near or in Illinois. In
addition, legislators in Nebraska are currently considering gaming legislation. The commencement of gaming in Nebraska or the expansion of gaming in Illinois would negatively impact certain of our
existing properties in the Southern Plains segment.

In
Kansas, the legislature approved the expansion of casino gaming in its state, and on February 3, 2012, Kansas Entertainment, a joint venture of affiliates of International
Speedway and us, opened the facility, which is located approximately 17 miles from Argosy Casino Riverside. The opening of this casino has had a negative impact on the financial results of Argosy
Casino Riverside due to their close proximity to one another. In the Mississippi Gulf Coast market, a casino in Biloxi opened in late May 2012, which has had an adverse effect on the financial results
of our Boomtown Biloxi property.









U.S. and Foreign Revenues

Our net revenues in the U.S. for 2014, 2013, and 2012 were approximately $2,578.8 million, $2,905.6 million, and
$2,884.7 million, respectively. Our revenues from operations in Canada for 2014, 2013, and 2012 were approximately $11.7 million, $13.2 million, and $14.8 million,
respectively.

Management

The persons listed below represent executive officers of the Company.

NameAgePositionTimothy J. Wilmott56President and Chief Executive OfficerJay Snowden38Executive Vice President and Chief Operating OfficerSaul V. Reibstein66Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and TreasurerCarl Sottosanti50Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and SecretaryWilliam J. Fair52Executive Vice President and Chief Development Officer

Timothy J. Wilmott.Mr. Wilmott joined us in February 2008 as President and Chief Operating Officer and was named Chief Executive
Officer on
November 1, 2013. In addition, in September 2014, Mr. Wilmott was appointed to the Board of Directors. Previously, Mr. Wilmott served as Chief Operating Officer of Harrah's
Entertainment, a position he held for approximately four years. In this position, he oversaw the operations of all of Harrah's revenue- generating businesses, including 48 casinos, 38,000 hotel
rooms and 300 restaurants. All Harrah's Division Presidents, Senior Vice Presidents of Brand Operations, Marketing and Information Technology personnel reported to Mr. Wilmott in his capacity
as Chief Operating Officer. Prior to his appointment to the position of Chief Operating Officer, Mr. Wilmott served from 1997 to 2002 as Division President of Harrah's Eastern Division with
responsibility for the operations of eight Harrah's properties.

Jay Snowden.Mr. Snowden joined us in October 2011 as Senior Vice President-Regional Operations and in January 2014 became our
Chief Operating
Officer. Mr. Snowden is responsible for overseeing all of our operating businesses, as well as human resources, marketing, and information technology. Prior to joining us, Mr. Snowden
was the Senior Vice President and General Manager of Caesars and Harrah's
in Atlantic City, and prior to that, held various leadership positions with them in St. Louis, San Diego and Las Vegas.

Saul V. Reibstein.Mr. Reibstein joined us in December 2013 as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Previously,
Mr. Reibstein served as a member of the Company's Board of Directors since June 2011 and as Chairman of the Board's Audit Committee. For eleven years, Mr. Reibstein served as a partner
at BDO Seidman, LLP (now BDO USA, LLP), a professional services firm providing assurance, tax, financial advisory and consulting services to a wide range of publicly-traded and
privately-held companies. At BDO, he was the partner in charge of the Philadelphia office from June 1997 to December 2001 and Regional Business Line Leader from December 2001 until September 2004.
Since 2004, Mr. Reibstein served as a member of the senior management team of CBIZ, Inc., a New York Stock Exchange-listed professional services company. During his tenure at CBIZ, he
held a number of positions including, most recently, Senior Managing Director with responsibility for the firm's New York practice since January 2012. He also oversaw the firm's business development
efforts and managed nine of the firm's business units within its Financial Services Group. In addition, since July 2010, he has served as a member of the Board of Directors of Vishay Precision
Group, Inc., a publicly traded company, where he is Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of both the Compensation and Nominating and Corporate Governance committees.

Carl Sottosanti.In February 2014, Mr. Sottosanti was appointed to the position of Senior Vice President and General Counsel.
Prior to this
appointment, Mr. Sottosanti served as Vice President, Deputy General Counsel since 2003. Before joining Penn, Mr. Sottosanti served for five years as









General
Counsel at publicly traded, Sanchez Computer Associates, Inc. and had oversight of all legal, compliance and intellectual property matters. From 1994 to 1998, Mr. Sottosanti was
the Assistant General Counsel for Salient 3 Communications, Inc., a publicly traded telecommunications company. Mr. Sottosanti began his legal career in 1989 with the Philadelphia law
firm Schnader Harrison, Segal & Lewis LLP.

William J. Fair.In January 2014, Mr. Fair joined us as Senior Vice President and Chief Development Officer. Previously,
Mr. Fair
worked in development leadership positions for Universal Studios and Disney Development. Most recently, Mr. Fair was the President and Chief Executive Officer of the American Skiing Company,
where he had oversight of ten ski mountain resorts which included ski
operations, nine hotels, condominium operations, food and beverage operations, retail and rental operations, real estate brokerage and development.

Governmental Regulations

The gaming and racing industries are highly regulated and we must maintain our licenses and pay gaming taxes to continue our
operations. Each of our facilities is subject to extensive regulation under the laws, rules and regulations of the jurisdiction where it is located. These laws, rules and regulations generally concern
the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners, managers, and persons with financial interests in the gaming operations. Violations of laws or regulations in one jurisdiction
could result in disciplinary action in other jurisdictions. A more detailed description of the regulations to which we are subject is contained in Exhibit 99.1 to this Annual Report on
Form 10-K, which is incorporated herein by reference.

Our
businesses are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations in addition to gaming regulations. These laws and regulations include, but are not limited to,
restrictions and conditions concerning alcoholic beverages, environmental matters, employees, health care, currency transactions, taxation, zoning and building codes, and marketing and advertising.
Such laws and regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted. Material changes, new laws or regulations, or material
differences in interpretations by courts or governmental authorities could adversely affect our operating results.

Employees and Labor Relations

As of December 31, 2014, we had 16,650 full- and part-time employees.

The
Company is required to have agreements with the horsemen at the majority of its racetracks to conduct its live racing and/or simulcasting activities. In addition, in order to operate
gaming machines and table games in West Virginia, the Company must maintain agreements with each of the Charles Town horsemen, pari-mutuel clerks and breeders.

At
Hollywood Casino at Charles Town Races, the Company has an agreement with the Charles Town Horsemen's Benevolent and Protective Association that expired on December 31, 2013
and has been extended on a month-to-month basis while negotiations are in progress. Hollywood Casino at Charles
Town Races also has an agreement with the breeders that expires on June 30, 2015. Additionally, the pari-mutuel clerks at Charles Town are represented under a collective bargaining agreement
with the West Virginia Union of Mutuel Clerks, which expired on December 31, 2010 and has been extended on a month-to-month basis while negotiations are in process.

The
Company's agreement with the Pennsylvania Horsemen's Benevolent and Protective Association at Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course expires on January 31, 2016. The
Company had a collective bargaining agreement with Local 137 of the Sports Arena Employees at Penn National Race Course with respect to on-track pari-mutuel clerks and admissions personnel which
expired on December 31, 2011. In August 2012, Local 137 of the Sports Arena Employees announced









that
they entered into a "voluntary supervision" agreement with their international union, Laborers' International Union of North America ("LIUNA") Local 108. In February 2014, a new agreement with
LIUNA Local 108 for on-track and OTWs bargaining units was ratified for three years.

The
Company's agreement with the Maine Harness Horsemen Association at Bangor Raceway continues through the conclusion of the 2015 racing season.

In
March of 2014, Hollywood Gaming at Mahoning Valley Race Course entered into an agreement with the Ohio Horsemen's Benevolent and Protective Association. The term is for a period of
ten years from the September 2014 commencement of video lottery terminal operations at that facility.

The
Company's agreement with the Ohio Harness Horsemen's Association for racing at Hollywood Gaming at Dayton Raceway expired on December 31, 2014 but is still in effect pending
the ongoing negotiations of a successor agreement.

Rosecroft
Raceway entered into agreements with the Cloverleaf Standardbred Owners Association ("CSOA") and Maryland Standardbred Breeder's Association ("MSBA") as of July 5, 2011.
CSOA's agreement has been extended through December 31, 2020 with certain termination provisions. The MSBA agreement has been extended through December 31, 2020. Additionally, Rosecroft
Raceway has entered into agreements with the United Food and Commercial Workers Union ("UFCW") Local 27 and the Seafarers Entertainment and Allied Trade Union ("SEATU") for certain bargaining
positions at the racetrack. The UFCW Local 27 agreement was ratified on December 13, 2014 and expires on November 30, 2019. The SEATU agreement expires on November 30, 2020.

Across
certain of the Company's properties, SEATU represents approximately 1,280 of the Company's employees under agreements that expire at various times between November 2015 and May
2022. At Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg and Argosy Casino Riverside, the SEATU agreements expired in June 2014 and October 2013, respectively, and both have been extended on a monthly basis while
negotiations are in process. At Hollywood Casino Joliet, the Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees Union Local 1 represents approximately 191 employees under a collective bargaining agreement which
expires on March 31, 2015. At Hollywood Casino Columbus and Hollywood Casino Toledo, a council comprised of the United Auto Workers and the United Steel Workers represents approximately 1,321
employees under a collective bargaining agreement which ends on November 15, 2019. In addition, at some of the Company's properties, the Security Police and Fire Professionals of America, the
International Brotherhood of Electronic Workers Locals 176 and 649, the LIUNA Public Serviced Employees Local 1290PE, and the United Industrial, Service, Transportation, Professional and Government
Workers of North America represent certain of the Company's employees under collective bargaining agreements that expire at various times between June 2015 and September 2025. None of these additional
unions represent more than 85 of the Company's employees.

Available Information

For more information about us, visit our website at www.pngaming.com. The contents of our website are not part of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K. Our electronic filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") (including all Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and Current
Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to these reports), including the exhibits, are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically
file them with, or furnish them to, the SEC.









