ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Overview

We are a leading, diversified, multi-jurisdictional owner and manager of gaming and pari-mutuel properties. The Company was
incorporated in Pennsylvania in 1982 as PNRC Corp. and adopted its current name in 1994, when the Company became a public company. In 1997, we began our transition from a pari-mutuel
company to a diversified gaming company with the acquisition of the Charles Town property and the introduction of video lottery terminals in West Virginia. Since 1997, we have continued to expand our
gaming operations through strategic acquisitions (including the acquisitions of Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis and Boomtown Biloxi, CRC Holdings, Inc., the Bullwhackers properties,
Hollywood Casino Corporation, Argosy Gaming Company ("Argosy"), Black Gold Casino at Zia Park, and Sanford-Orlando Kennel Club), greenfield projects (such as at Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race
Course and Hollywood Slots Hotel and Raceway) and property expansions (such as at Charles Town Entertainment Complex and Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg). We currently own or manage nineteen facilities
in fifteen jurisdictions, including Colorado, Florida, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Louisiana, Maine, Mississippi, Missouri, New Jersey, New Mexico, Ohio, Pennsylvania, West Virginia, and Ontario.

We
believe that our portfolio of assets provides us with a diversified cash flow from operations. We intend to continue to expand our gaming operations through the implementation of a
disciplined capital expenditure program at our existing properties and the continued pursuit of strategic acquisitions and the development of gaming properties, particularly in attractive regional
markets. Current capital projects are ongoing at several of our existing properties, including Empress Casino Hotel, Charles Town Entertainment Complex, Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course,
and Hollywood Casino Perryville, as well as at our proposed facilities in Kansas and Ohio.

In
this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the terms "we," "us," "our," the "Company" and "Penn National" refer to Penn National Gaming, Inc. and subsidiaries, unless
the context indicates otherwise.

Merger Announcement and Termination

On June 15, 2007, we announced that we had entered into a merger agreement that, at the effective time of the transactions
contemplated thereby, would have resulted in our shareholders receiving $67.00 per share. Specifically, we, PNG Acquisition Company Inc. ("Parent") and PNG Merger Sub Inc., a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Parent ("Merger Sub"), announced that we had entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of June 15, 2007 (the "Merger Agreement"), that provided, among
other things, for Merger Sub to be merged with and into us, as a result of which we would have continued as the surviving corporation and would have become a wholly-owned subsidiary of Parent. Parent
is indirectly owned by certain funds managed by affiliates of Fortress Investment Group LLC ("Fortress") and Centerbridge Partners, L.P. ("Centerbridge").

On
July 3, 2008, we entered into an agreement with certain affiliates of Fortress and Centerbridge, terminating the Merger Agreement. In connection with the termination of the
Merger Agreement, we agreed to receive a total of $1.475 billion, consisting of a nonrefundable $225 million cash termination fee and a $1.25 billion, zero coupon, preferred
equity investment (the "Investment"). On October 30, 2008, we closed the sale of the Investment and issued 12,500 shares of Series B Redeemable Preferred Stock.









Properties

The following table summarizes certain features of our owned properties and our managed property as of December 31, 2009:

LocationType of FacilityApprox.GamingSquareFootageGamingMachinesTableGames(1)HotelRoomsOwned Properties:Charles Town Entertainment ComplexCharles Town, WVLand-based gaming/184,3485,034—153Thoroughbred racingHollywood Casino LawrenceburgLawrenceburg, INDockside gaming150,0003,22588295Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course(2)Grantville, PALand-based gaming/94,3002,366——Thoroughbred racingHollywood Casino AuroraAurora, ILDockside gaming53,0001,17223—Empress Casino HotelJoliet, ILDockside gaming50,0001,19420100Argosy Casino RiversideRiverside, MODockside gaming56,4001,96639258Hollywood Casino Baton RougeBaton Rouge, LADockside gaming28,0001,17523—Argosy Casino AltonAlton, ILDockside gaming23,0001,10218—Hollywood Casino TunicaTunica, MSDockside gaming54,0001,27528494Hollywood Casino Bay St. LouisBay St. Louis, MSLand-based gaming40,0001,13321291Argosy Casino Sioux CitySioux City, IADockside gaming20,50070219—Boomtown BiloxiBiloxi, MSDockside gaming51,6651,21420—Hollywood Slots Hotel and RacewayBangor, MELand-based gaming/30,0001,000—152Harness racingBullwhackersBlack Hawk, COLand-based gaming12,7855917—Black Gold Casino at Zia ParkHobbs, New MexicoLand-based gaming/18,460750——Thoroughbred racingRaceway ParkToledo, OHHarness racing————Freehold Raceway(3)Monmouth, NJHarness racing————Sanford-Orlando Kennel ClubLongwood, FLGreyhound racing————Managed Property:Casino RamaOrillia, OntarioLand-based gaming93,0002,472104289Total959,45826,3714102,032

(1)Excludes
poker tables.(2)Hollywood
Casino at Penn National Race Course includes our Pennsylvania casino that opened on February 12, 2008, as well as the Penn National Race
Course and four off-track wagering facilities ("OTWs").(3)Pursuant
to a joint venture with Greenwood Limited Jersey, Inc., a subsidiary of Greenwood Racing, Inc.

Owned Properties

Charles Town Entertainment Complex

The Charles Town Entertainment Complex is located within approximately a one-hour drive of the Baltimore, Maryland and
Washington, D.C. markets, and is currently the only gaming property located conveniently west of these two cities. The Charles Town Entertainment Complex has 184,348 square feet of gaming space, with
5,034 gaming machines, and a 153-room hotel, which opened to the public on September 5, 2008. The complex also features live thoroughbred racing at a refurbished,3/4-mile all-weather, lighted thoroughbred racetrack with a 3,000-seat grandstand, parking for 6,048 vehicles and simulcast wagering and dining. In
December 2009, we announced that we intend to install table games at Charles Town Entertainment Complex following voter approval of table games in the December 5, 2009 special election. Plans
currently include the estimated addition of 85 table games and 27 poker tables, a high-end steakhouse/lounge, and a Hollywood on the Roof entertainment lounge. The table games, poker
tables and the entertainment lounge are expected to be completed in the third quarter of 2010, and the high-end steakhouse/lounge is expected to be completed in the fourth quarter of 2010.









Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg

The Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg is located on the Ohio River in Lawrenceburg, Indiana, approximately 15 miles west of Cincinnati and
is the closest casino to the Cincinnati metropolitan area, its principal target market. In late June 2009, we opened a new casino riverboat at Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg, replacing the vessel at
Argosy Casino Lawrenceburg. The new Hollywood-themed casino riverboat has 150,000 square feet of gaming space on two levels, 3,225 slot machines, 88 live table games, 41 poker tables, a restaurant and
4 bars. Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg also includes a 295-room hotel. Meeting space for Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg partially opened in December 2009 and will be completed in the first
quarter of 2010, a new steakhouse/lounge is scheduled for completion in the second quarter of 2010, and a new mid-priced restaurant is scheduled for completion in the third quarter of
2010.

Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course

Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course is located in Grantville, Pennsylvania, which is 15 miles northeast of Harrisburg.
Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course opened on February 12, 2008. The Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course is a 365,000 square foot facility, currently operating with 2,366
slot machines. The facility also includes a food court, entertainment bar and lounge, trackside dining room, a sports bar, a buffet and high-end steakhouse, a retail store, as well as a
simulcast facility and viewing area for live racing. The facility has ample parking, including a five-story self parking garage, with capacity for approximately 2,200 cars and
approximately 1,500 surface parking spaces for self and valet parking. The property includes a one-mile all-weather, lighted thoroughbred racetrack, and a7/8-mile turf track. In January 2010, the Pennsylvania legislature passed legislation permitting table games for gaming licensees. We intend to install table games at
Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course in two phases. Phase 1 includes the addition of an estimated 40 table games and 12 poker tables within the existing facility, and is expected to be
completed in the fourth quarter of 2010. The property also includes approximately 400 acres that are available for future expansion or development.

Hollywood Casino Aurora

Hollywood Casino Aurora, part of the Chicagoland market, is located in Aurora, Illinois, the second largest city in Illinois,
approximately 35 miles west of Chicago. The facility is easily accessible from major highways, can be reached by train from downtown Chicago, and is approximately 30 miles from both the O'Hare
International and Midway airports. Hollywood Casino Aurora has a 53,000 square foot single-level dockside casino facility with 1,172 gaming machines, 23 gaming tables and 6 poker tables. The facility
features two upscale lounges, a steakhouse, a buffet, a fast food outlet, and a private dining room for premium players. Hollywood Casino Aurora also has two parking garages with approximately 1,564
parking spaces and a gift shop.

Empress Casino Hotel

The Empress Casino Hotel, part of the Chicagoland market, is located on the Des Plaines River in Joliet, Illinois, approximately 40
miles southwest of Chicago. This barge-based casino provides 50,000 square feet of gaming space on two levels with 1,194 slot machines, 20 table games and 3 poker tables. The casino also features a
buffet and deli. The complex also includes a 100-room hotel, surface parking areas with approximately 1,500 spaces and an 80-space recreational vehicle park.

On
March 20, 2009, the property, which was undergoing a $55 million renovation, was closed following a fire that started in the land-based pavilion at the
facility. All customers and employees were successfully evacuated, and the fire was contained on the land-side of the property before it could spread to the adjacent casino barge. On
June 25, 2009, the casino barge was reopened with temporary land-based facilities, and we began construction of a new land-based pavilion. Construction on a new 1,100
space parking garage was completed in the first quarter of 2010. The permanent land-based











pavilion
is expected to be completed by the fourth quarter of 2010 and upgrades to the gaming vessel and other areas are expected to be completed by the first quarter of 2011.

Argosy Casino Riverside

The Argosy Casino Riverside is located on the Missouri River approximately five miles from downtown Kansas City in Riverside, Missouri.
The casino primarily attracts customers who reside in the northern and western regions of the Kansas City metropolitan area. This Las Vegas-style casino features approximately 56,400 square feet of
gaming space with 1,966 slot machines, 39 table games and 8 poker tables.

This
state-of-the-art Mediterranean-themed casino features an innovative "floating" casino floor that provides a seamless transition between the
casino and land-based support areas, which include a Mediterranean-themed, nine-story, 258-room hotel and spa, an entertainment facility featuring 6 food and
beverage areas, including a buffet, steakhouse, deli, coffee bar, VIP lounge and sports/entertainment lounge and 19,000 square feet of banquet/conference facilities. Argosy Casino Riverside currently
has parking for approximately 3,000 vehicles, including a 1,250 space parking garage.

Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge

Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge is currently one of two dockside riverboat gaming facilities operating in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. The
Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge property features a riverboat casino reminiscent of a nineteenth century Mississippi River paddlewheel steamboat. The riverboat features approximately 28,000 square feet
of gaming space, 1,175 gaming machines and 23 table games.

The
facility also includes a two-story, 58,000 square foot dockside building featuring a variety of amenities, including a steakhouse, a 268-seat buffet, a
premium players' lounge, a nightclub that doubles as a players' event area, a lobby bar, a public atrium, two meeting rooms, 1,548 parking spaces, a players' club booth and a gift shop.

In
December 2007, we agreed to acquire 3.8 acres of adjacent land and to pay for half of the construction costs (subject to a ceiling of $3.8 million) for a railroad underpass
with the seller of the land. The underpass will provide unimpeded access to the casino property and to property owned by the seller for future development. Construction on the underpass started in
June 2009 and we anticipate that it will be completed by the fourth quarter of 2010.

Argosy Casino Alton

The Argosy Casino Alton is located on the Mississippi River in Alton, Illinois, approximately 20 miles northeast of downtown
St. Louis. The target customers of the Argosy Casino Alton are drawn largely from the northern and eastern regions of the greater St. Louis metropolitan area, as well as portions of
central and southern Illinois. The Argosy Casino Alton is a three-deck gaming facility featuring 23,000 square feet of gaming space with 1,102 slot machines and 18 table games. The Argosy
Casino Alton includes an entertainment pavilion and features a 124-seat buffet, a restaurant and a 400-seat main showroom. The facility includes surface parking areas with
1,341 spaces.

Hollywood Casino Tunica

Hollywood Casino Tunica is located in Tunica, Mississippi. Tunica County is the closest resort gaming jurisdiction to, and is easily
accessible from, the Memphis, Tennessee metropolitan area. The Tunica market has become a regional destination resort, attracting customers from surrounding markets such as Nashville, Tennessee,
Atlanta, Georgia, St. Louis, Missouri, Little Rock, Arkansas, and Tulsa, Oklahoma. Hollywood Casino Tunica features 54,000 square feet of gaming space at a single-level casino with 1,275 slot
machines, 28 table games and 6 poker tables.









Hollywood
Casino Tunica's 494-room hotel and 123-space recreational vehicle park provide overnight accommodations for its patrons. Entertainment amenities include
a steakhouse, the Hollywood Epic Buffet®, a 1950's-style diner, an entertainment lounge, a premium players' club, a themed bar facility, a non-smoking slot room, an indoor pool
and showroom as well as banquet and meeting facilities. There is also an 18-hole championship golf course adjacent to the facility that is owned and operated through a joint venture of
three gaming companies. In addition, Hollywood Casino Tunica offers surface parking for 1,635 cars.

Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis

Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis is located in Bay St. Louis, Mississippi. Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis offers a
40,000 square foot casino, and features 1,133 slot machines, 21 table games, and 6 poker tables.

The
waterfront Hollywood Hotel features 291 rooms and a 10,000 square foot ballroom, including nine separate meeting rooms offering more than 17,000 square feet of meeting space.
Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis offers live concerts and various entertainment on weekends in the ballroom. The property also features The Bridges golf course, an 18-hole
championship golf course. Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis has three restaurants including Tuscany Steaks & Seafood® (fine dining), the Hollywood Epic Buffet and Jackpot
Java®, a 24-hour cafe. Other amenities include a recreational vehicle park with 100 sites and Tokens gift shop.

Argosy Casino Sioux City

The Argosy Casino Sioux City is located on the Missouri River in downtown Sioux City, Iowa. The riverboat features 20,500 square feet
of gaming space with approximately 702 slot machines, 19 table games and 3 poker tables. The casino is complemented by adjacent barge facilities featuring dining facilities, meeting space, and 524
parking spaces.

Boomtown Biloxi

Boomtown Biloxi is located in Biloxi, Mississippi. Boomtown Biloxi offers 51,665 square feet of gaming space with 1,214 slot machines,
20 table games and 5 poker tables. It features a locally acclaimed buffet and the Grill (a 24-hour deli and bakery), and a new steakhouse and VIP lounge which opened in the fourth quarter
of 2009. Boomtown Biloxi has 1,450 surface parking spaces.

Hollywood Slots Hotel and Raceway

Hollywood Slots Hotel and Raceway is situated near historic Bass Park in Bangor, Maine. Its amenities include 30,000 square feet of
gaming space with 1,000 slot machines and a 152-room hotel, with 5,119 square feet of meeting and pre-function space, two eateries, Hollywood Epic Buffet and Take 2, a small
entertainment stage, and four-story parking with 1,500 parking spaces.

Bangor
Raceway is located at historic Bass Park which is adjacent to the property. In 2009, Bangor Raceway conducted harness racing from May through early November on its
one-half mile track. With over 12,000 square feet of space, the Bangor Raceway grandstand can seat 3,500 patrons.

Bullwhackers

The Bullwhackers properties include the Bullwhackers Casino and the adjoining Bullpen Casino. Bullwhackers Casino offers a full service
restaurant and cafe. The Bullwhackers properties, which are located in Black Hawk, Colorado, include 12,785 square feet of gaming space, 591 slot machines and 7 table games. The properties also
include a 344-car surface parking area. We also own and operate a gas station/convenience store located approximately 7 miles east of Bullwhackers Casino on Highway 119.









Black Gold Casino at Zia Park

Black Gold Casino at Zia Park includes the Black Gold Casino and the adjoining Zia Park Racetrack. Black Gold Casino at Zia Park is
located in Hobbs, New Mexico and includes 18,460 square feet of gaming space and 750 slot machines. The property operates three restaurants consisting of the Black Gold Buffet, the Black Gold
Steakhouse, and the Homestretch Bar & Grill, which has live entertainment on the weekends. The property also includes a one-mile oval quarter/thoroughbred racetrack, which was
utilized for 57 days in 2009, and a simulcast parlor, which is utilized year-round. Year-round banquet
services are available in the Turf Club, which also offers food and beverage services during the live racing season.

Raceway Park

Raceway Park is a 58,250 square foot facility, with a5/8-mile harness racing track located in Toledo, Ohio.
The facility also features simulcast wagering and has a 1,977 theatre-style seating capacity and surface parking for 3,000 vehicles.

Freehold Raceway

Through our joint venture, we own 50% of Freehold Raceway, located in Freehold in Western Monmouth County, New Jersey. The property
features a half-mile oval harness track and a 150,000 square foot grandstand. Freehold Raceway operates a leased OTW in Toms River, New Jersey, that is approximately 28,160 square feet.

Sanford-Orlando Kennel Club

Sanford-Orlando Kennel Club is a1/4mile greyhound facility located in Longwood, Florida. The facility has a capacity
for 6,500 patrons, with seating for 4,000 and surface parking for 2,500 vehicles. The facility conducts year-round greyhound racing and horse racing simulcasts.

Off-track Wagering Facilities

Our OTWs and racetracks provide areas for viewing import simulcast races of thoroughbred and harness horse racing, televised sporting
events, placing pari-mutuel wagers and dining. We operate four of the eighteen OTWs currently in operation in Pennsylvania.

Account Wagering/Internet Wagering

In 1983, we pioneered Telebet®, the complete account wagering operation for Penn National Race Course. The platform offers
account wagering on more than 80 United States ("U.S.") racetracks, and currently has more than 12,900 active account betting customers from the 13 U.S. states that permit account wagering as well as
the U.S. Virgin Islands.

We
have also developed strategic relationships to further our wagering activities. In August 1999, we entered into an agreement with eBet Limited, an Internet wagering operation in
Australia, to license their eBetUSA.com technology in the U.S. Through eBetUSA.com, Inc., our wholly-owned subsidiary, we use the eBetUSA.com technology to permit on-line
pari-mutuel horseracing wagering over the internet in selected jurisdictions with the approval of the Pennsylvania State Horse Racing Commission and applicable federal and state laws,
rules and regulations, as permitted. We currently accept wagers from residents of 13 U.S. states and the U.S. Virgin Islands.

Managed Gaming Property

Casino Rama

Through CHC Casinos Canada Limited ("CHC Casinos"), our indirectly wholly-owned subsidiary, we manage Casino Rama, a full service
gaming and entertainment facility, on behalf of the Ontario











Lottery
and Gaming Corporation, an agency of the Province of Ontario. Casino Rama is located on the lands of the Rama First Nation, approximately 90 miles north of Toronto. The property has
approximately 93,000 square feet of gaming space, 2,472 gaming machines, 104 table games and 12 poker tables. In addition, the property includes a 5,000-seat entertainment facility, a
289-room hotel and 3,170 parking spaces.

The
Development and Operating Agreement (the "Agreement"), which we refer to as the management service contract for Casino Rama, sets out the duties, rights and obligations of CHC
Casinos and our
indirectly wholly-owned subsidiary, CRC Holdings, Inc. The compensation under the Agreement is a base fee equal to 2.0% of gross revenues of the casino and an incentive fee equal to 5.0% of the
casino's net operating profit.

The
Agreement terminates on July 31, 2011, and the Ontario Lottery and Gaming Corporation has the option to extend the term of the Agreement for two successive periods of five
years each, commencing on August 1, 2011.

Noncontrolling Interests

In November 2009, we entered into an agreement with Lakes Entertainment, Inc. ("Lakes"), permitting Lakes to invest in up to a
10% equity interest in each of our proposed facilities in Columbus and Toledo, Ohio. During the year ended December 31, 2009, Lakes contributed $1.9 million to us towards the proposed
facilities, and its portion of the net loss for the proposed facilities was $2.5 million. The noncontrolling interest is included in shareholders' equity within our consolidated balance sheet
at December 31, 2009, stated separately from our shareholders' equity.

Trademarks

We own a number of trademarks registered with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office ("U.S. PTO"), including but not limited to,
"Telebet," "The World Series of Handicapping," and "Players' Choice." We also have a number of trademark applications pending with the U.S. PTO.

BTN, Inc.,
our wholly-owned subsidiary, entered into a License Agreement with Boomtown, Inc., dated August 8, 2000 pursuant to which it uses "Boomtown" and other
trademarks.

As
a result of our acquisitions of Hollywood Casino Corporation and Argosy, we own the service marks "Hollywood Casino" and "Argosy" which are registered with the U.S. PTO. We believe
that our rights to the "Hollywood Casino" and "Argosy" service marks are well established and have competitive value to the Hollywood Casino and Argosy properties. We also acquired other trademarks
used by the Hollywood Casino and Argosy facilities and their related services. These marks are either registered or are the subject of pending applications with the U.S. PTO.

Competition

Gaming Operations

The gaming industry is characterized by a high degree of competition among a large number of participants, including riverboat casinos,
dockside casinos, land-based casinos, video lottery and poker machines not located in casinos, Native American gaming, Internet gaming and other forms of gambling in the U.S. In a broader
sense, our gaming operations face competition from all manner of leisure and entertainment activities, including: shopping; high school, collegiate and professional athletic events; television and
movies; concerts and travel. Legalized gaming is currently permitted in various forms throughout the U.S., in several Canadian provinces and on various lands taken into trust for the benefit of
certain Native Americans in the U.S. and Canada. Other jurisdictions, including states adjacent to states in which we currently have facilities (such as in Kansas, Ohio and Maryland), have legalized,
and are likely to implement gaming in the near future. In addition, established gaming jurisdictions could award additional gaming licenses or permit the expansion or relocation of existing











gaming
operations. New, relocated or expanded operations by other persons will increase competition for our gaming operations and could have a material adverse impact on us.

Charles Town, West Virginia.

Lawrenceburg, Indiana.The Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg is the closest casino to the Cincinnati metropolitan area, and faces
competition from two
other riverboat casinos in the Cincinnati market, plus two racetrack casinos in the greater Indianapolis area. The nearest competitor is located approximately 15 miles further south of Lawrenceburg in
Rising Sun, Indiana. Another competitor is located 40 miles from Lawrenceburg in Switzerland County, Indiana. In 2007, the Indiana Legislature passed a law allowing up to 2,000 slot machines at each
of two racetracks in Indianapolis, approximately 90 miles northwest of Lawrenceburg. Both of these racetracks re-opened with slots in June 2008. One of the two racinos opened their slot
operations in a temporary facility and then opened a permanent structure in March 2009. These two Indianapolis racinos have adversely affected our gaming revenue, particularly from the Indianapolis
feeder market. Casino gaming is not currently permitted under the laws of Kentucky, although legislation has been introduced to allow gaming at racetracks and casinos subject to referendum. Ohio
voters passed a referendum in 2009 to allow four land-based casinos in four cities in the state of Ohio. One of them will be in downtown Cincinnati, which is a major feeder market for our
Lawrenceburg property. The commencement of casino gaming in Ohio or Kentucky will have an adverse effect on the financial results of our Lawrenceburg casino.

Grantville, Pennsylvania.The Pennsylvania Race Horse Development and Gaming Act, which was signed in 2004, authorized up to 5,000 slot
machines at
each of seven harness/thoroughbred racetracks and five stand-alone slot facilities, as well as 500 slot machines at each of two authorized resort facilities. Currently, slot machines are authorized
and operating at six of the seven existing racetrack facilities, as well as three stand-alone facilities. In January 2010, the Pennsylvania legislature passed legislation permitting table games for
gaming licensees. The Pennsylvania Gaming Control Board is in the process of creating a regulatory framework with regard to table games and has estimated that it will be six to nine months before
table games can become operational. The new legislation increases the number of category 3 licenses from two to three. A category 3 license allows the licensed facility to operate up to
500 slot machines; however, a category 3 licensed facility holding a table game operation certificate will be entitled to operate 600 slot machines and 50 table games. One category 3
license application has been granted, but no license has been issued, pending resolution of a challenge before the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania. There are also proposed sites in each of Gettysburg
and the Reading area for a category 3 license. If any of these sites begin slot operations, it will have a negative impact on Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course.







Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course faces competition from these other Pennsylvania facilities, as well as casinos located in Delaware, New Jersey, and
West Virginia. In addition, Hollywood Casino Perryville, which is owned by us, is expected to open in late 2010, and our property in West Virginia received approval in late 2009 to operate table
games, both of which could negatively impact the operations of Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course.

In
2008, the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania passed legislation which authorized a partial ban on smoking in casino facilities, including a limit on the amount of casino floor space that
could be designated as "smoking." Early in 2009, Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course was able to expand smoking sections to 50% of its casino floor. The legislation does not allow any
further expansion of smoking areas.

Chicagoland.Aurora and Joliet are part of the Chicagoland market that includes properties in the Chicago suburbs in both Illinois and
northern
Indiana. Hollywood Casino Aurora and Empress Casino Hotel face competition from numerous other riverboat casinos in the Chicago-area market, dockside casinos that are located in Illinois
and dockside casinos that are located in Indiana. Due to significantly higher gaming taxes imposed on Illinois riverboats, the Indiana riverboats have been able to spend greater amounts on marketing
and other amenities, which has significantly increased their ability to compete with the Illinois riverboats. Any increase in gaming taxes or admission fees imposed on Illinois riverboats could have
an adverse impact on the financial results of
our Chicagoland casinos. Effective January 1, 2008, casinos in Illinois became smoke-free due to state legislation and smoking areas are required to be outside of the facility. The
casinos in Indiana continue to have smoking permitted in all areas providing them with a significant competitive advantage. In addition, after a major remodel, Harrah's reopened the Horseshoe casino
in northern Indiana in August 2008 which has impacted the revenues of the Illinois riverboats in 2009.

New
competition in Illinois is currently limited by state legislation. The Illinois Riverboat Gambling Act and the regulations promulgated by the Illinois Gaming Board under the
Riverboat Gambling Act authorize only 10 owner licenses for riverboat gaming operations in Illinois and permit a maximum of 1,200 gaming positions at any time for each of the 10 licensed sites. All
authorized owners' licenses have now been granted, with the final license, which was dormant for several years, being issued in December 2008. The new gaming operation is expected to be opened in the
second half of 2011 in Des Plaines, Illinois. We will face additional competition as the facility will be located in the suburban area northwest of Chicago. The legislature has considered, at various
times, legislation that would expand gaming in the state of Illinois (for example, slots at tracks). Should the Illinois legislature enact such gaming-expansion legislation, the financial results of
our Chicagoland casinos could be adversely affected.

In
July 2009, the Governor of Illinois signed a bill providing for the legalization of video poker in bars. While there have not yet been any installations of video poker machines
outside of the current 9 Illinois riverboats, it is anticipated they will arrive sometime in 2010.

Riverside, Missouri.The Argosy Casino Riverside currently faces competition from three other casinos in its market. In November 2008,
legislation
was enacted in Missouri that increased gaming taxes, while removing the loss limit in the state. The Kansas legislature has approved the expansion of casino gaming in its state, and in February 2010,
Kansas Entertainment, LLC, a joint venture of affiliates of International Speedway Corporation and us, received the final approval under the Kansas Expanded Lottery Act, along with its gaming
license from the Kansas Racing and Gaming Commission, to proceed with the development of a Hollywood-themed destination facility overlooking Turn 2 at Kansas Speedway, which is located approximately
17 miles from Argosy Casino Riverside. Kansas Entertainment, LLC will begin construction of the facility in the second half of 2010 with a planned opening in early 2012. The commencement of casino
gaming in Kansas will have an adverse effect on the financial results of Argosy Casino Riverside.









Baton Rouge, Louisiana.

Alton, Illinois.The Argosy Casino Alton faces competition from five other riverboat casinos currently operating in the St. Louis,
Missouri
area, including one other Illinois licensee. In addition, a casino project in south St. Louis County is in development and scheduled to open in March 2010, which could adversely affect
business. Casinos in Illinois are smoke-free due to state legislation while casinos in Missouri continue to have smoking permitted in all areas, providing them with a significant
competitive advantage. Should the Illinois legislature enact gaming-expansion legislation or increase admission or gaming taxes, our Alton casino's financial results could be adversely affected.

Tunica County, Mississippi.Hollywood Casino Tunica faces intense competition from nine other casinos operating in north Tunica County
and Coahoma
County. The Tunica County market is segregated into two casino clusters, Casino Center and Casino Strip, where Hollywood Casino Tunica is located, as well as three stand-alone properties. In addition,
we compete with another casino located approximately 40 miles south of the Casino Strip cluster in Coahoma County. The close proximity of the casinos in Tunica County has contributed to the
competition between casinos because it allows consumers to visit a variety of casinos in a short period of time. The Mississippi Gaming Control Act does not limit the number of licenses that may be
granted. Any significant increase in new competition in or around Tunica County could negatively impact the operations of Hollywood Casino Tunica.

Hollywood
Casino Tunica also competes to some extent with a land-based casino complex operated by the Mississippi Band of Choctaw Indians in central Mississippi,
approximately 200 miles south and east of Memphis, Tennessee. In addition, Hollywood Casino Tunica may eventually face competition from the opening of gaming casinos closer to Memphis, such as in
DeSoto County, Mississippi, which is the only county between Tunica County and the Tennessee border. DeSoto County has defeated gaming proposals on three separate occasions, the last being in November
1996. In November 2006, Southland Park Gaming & Racing, formerly Southland Greyhound Park, in West Memphis, Arkansas, opened a $40 million gaming facility with nearly 1,000 electronic
"games of skill." The facility is located across the Mississippi River from Memphis. Casino gaming is not currently
legalized in Tennessee; however, the legalization of gaming in Tennessee could have an adverse impact on Hollywood Casino Tunica.

Mississippi Gulf Coast.Prior to Hurricane Katrina, dockside gaming grew rapidly on the Mississippi Gulf Coast, increasing from no
dockside casinos
in March 1992 to twelve operating dockside casinos on December 31, 2004. Nine of these facilities were located in Biloxi, two were located in Gulfport and one was located in Bay
St. Louis. As of December 31, 2009, eight of the casinos in Biloxi











re-opened,
including our casino, one of the Gulfport casinos reopened and two Bay St. Louis properties opened in 2006. Prior to Hurricane Katrina, our Bay St. Louis property
was the only casino in the Bay St. Louis market, whereas there are now two casinos in the Bay St. Louis market. In addition, in the Bay St. Louis market, there are various
proposals for casinos in development, as well as expansions at existing properties, that may take place in the next few years, though none are anticipated to be completed in 2010.

During
the 2005 special session of the Mississippi legislature, a bill to allow Gulf Coast casinos to rebuild on land was approved and signed by the Governor of Mississippi. In addition,
the Mississippi Gaming Control Act does not limit the number of licenses that may be granted and there are a number of additional sites located in the Gulf Coast region that are in various stages of
development. Any significant increase in the competition in the region could negatively impact our existing operations.

Sioux City, Iowa.The Argosy Casino Sioux City competes primarily with land-based Native American casinos that are not required to
report
gaming revenues and other operating statistics, therefore market comparisons cannot be made. We also compete with certain providers and operators of video gaming in the neighboring state of South
Dakota. Additionally, to a lesser extent, we compete with slot machines at a pari-mutuel racetrack in Council Bluffs, Iowa, and with two riverboat casinos in the Council Bluffs/Omaha,
Nebraska market, approximately 90 miles south of Sioux City.

Bangor, Maine.Hollywood Slots Hotel and Raceway is the only facility with slot machines in the state of Maine. The closest competitors
offering slot
machines are Foxwoods and Mohegan Sun in Connecticut, Newport Grand Casino in Rhode Island and Horizon's Edge casino cruise ship operating in Lynn, Massachusetts, all approximately 300 miles away. Any
significant increase in the competition in the region could negatively impact our existing operations.

Black Hawk, Colorado.The Black Hawk gaming market is characterized by intense competition. The primary competitive factors in the
market are
location, availability and convenience of parking, number of slot machines and gaming tables, promotional incentives, types and pricing of non-gaming amenities, name recognition and
overall atmosphere. There are currently 18 gaming facilities in the Black Hawk market and 6 gaming facilities in nearby Central City.

Hobbs, New Mexico.The closest competitors to Black Gold Casino at Zia Park are located in New Mexico, and are approximately 190 and 250
miles from
Hobbs. Hobbs is located very close to the Texas border, and the political developments in Texas are monitored closely. Currently, there is no legalized gaming in Texas which, if legalized, could
greatly impact Black Gold Casino at Zia Park. In New Mexico, the Governor signed a new compact with the tribal casinos limiting the future expansion of gaming facilities in the state.

Orillia, Ontario.Casino Rama faces competition in Ontario from three other commercial casinos, six charity casinos and 17 racetracks
with gaming
machines in the province. All of the casinos (including Casino Rama) and gaming machine facilities are operated by or on behalf of the Ontario Lottery and Gaming Corporation, an agency of the Province
of Ontario.

There
are two charity casinos and seven racetracks with gaming machine facilities that directly affect Casino Rama. The two charity casinos together have 106 gaming tables and 1,054
gaming machines. The number of gaming machines at the racetracks ranges from 240 to over 2,061 each. There are also two commercial casinos located in Niagara Falls, Ontario, 80 miles southwest of
Toronto with a total of 173 gaming tables and 4,651 gaming machines.

Racing Operations

Our racing operations face significant competition for wagering dollars from other racetracks and OTWs, some of which also offer other
forms of gaming, as well as other gaming venues such as casinos. Our account wagering operations compete with other providers of such services throughout the country. We also may face competition in
the future from new OTWs, new racetracks or new providers











of
account wagering. From time to time, states consider legislation to permit other forms of gaming. If additional gaming opportunities become available near our racing operations, such gaming
opportunities could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

U.S. and Foreign Revenues

Our net revenues in the U.S. for 2009, 2008 and 2007 were approximately $2,354.5 million, $2,406.4 million and
$2,419.5 million, respectively. Our revenues from operations in Canada for 2009, 2008 and 2007 were approximately $14.8 million, $16.7 million and $17.3 million,
respectively.

Segments

In accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification 280, "Segment Reporting," we view each
property as an operating segment, and aggregate all of our properties into one reportable segment, as we believe that they are economically similar, offer similar types of products and services, cater
to the same types of customers, and are similarly regulated.

Management

NameAgePositionPeter M. Carlino63Chief Executive OfficerTimothy J. Wilmott51President and Chief Operating OfficerWilliam J. Clifford52Senior Vice President-Finance and Chief Financial OfficerThomas P. Burke53Senior Vice President-Regional OperationsJohn V. Finamore51Senior Vice President-Regional OperationsRobert S. Ippolito58Vice President, Secretary and TreasurerJordan B. Savitch44Senior Vice President and General CounselSteven T. Snyder49Senior Vice President-Corporate Development

Peter M. Carlino.Mr. Carlino has served as our Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer since April 1994.
Since 1976,
Mr. Carlino has been President of Carlino Capital Management Corp. (formerly known as Carlino Financial Corporation), a holding company that owns and operates various Carlino family businesses,
in which capacity he has been continuously active in strategic planning and monitoring the operations.

Timothy J. Wilmott.Mr. Wilmott joined us in February 2008 as President and Chief Operating Officer. Mr. Wilmott most recently
served
as Chief Operating Officer of Harrah's Entertainment, a position he held for approximately four years. In this position, he oversaw the operations of all of Harrah's revenue-generating businesses,
including 48 casinos, 38,000 hotel rooms and 300 restaurants. All Harrah's Division Presidents, Senior Vice Presidents of Brand Operations, Marketing and Information Technology personnel reported to
Mr. Wilmott in his capacity as Chief Operating Officer. Prior to his
appointment to the position of Chief Operating Officer, Mr. Wilmott served from 1997 to 2002 as Division President of Harrah's Eastern Division with responsibility for the operations of eight
Harrah's properties.

William J. Clifford.Mr. Clifford joined us in August 2001 and was appointed to his current position as Senior Vice
President-Finance and
Chief Financial Officer in October 2001. From March 1997 to July 2001, Mr. Clifford served as the Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President of Finance with Sun International
Resorts, Inc., Paradise Island, Bahamas. From November 1993 to February 1997, Mr. Clifford was Financial, Hotel and Operations Controller for Treasure Island Hotel and Casino in Las
Vegas. From May 1989 to November 1993, Mr. Clifford was Controller for Golden Nugget Hotel and Casino, Las Vegas. Prior to May 1989, Mr. Clifford held the positions of Controller for the
Dunes Hotel and Casino, Las Vegas, Property Operations Analyst with Aladdin Hotel and Casino, Las Vegas, Casino Administrator with Las Vegas Hilton, Las Vegas, Senior Internal Auditor











with
Del Webb, Las Vegas, and Agent, Audit Division, of the Nevada Gaming Control Board, Las Vegas and Reno.

Thomas P. Burke.Mr. Burke joined us in November 2002, and was appointed to his current position of Senior Vice President-Regional
Operations
effective October 2008. In this position, Mr. Burke is responsible for overseeing all facets of our facilities located in Colorado, Iowa, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, and New Mexico.
Previously, Mr. Burke served as Vice President and General Manager of our Argosy Casino Riverside from June 2006 until October 2008 and as President and General Manager of our Bullwhackers
properties from November 2002 until June 2006. Prior to joining us, Mr. Burke held senior management positions at Ameristar Casinos, Station Casinos, Trump Taj Mahal Casino Resort and Trump
Castle Hotel/Casino, American Gaming and Entertainment and the Majestic Star Casino.

John V. Finamore.Mr. Finamore joined us in November 2002 as Senior Vice President-Regional Operations. In this position,
Mr. Finamore
is responsible for overseeing all facets of our facilities located in Florida, Illinois, Maine, New Jersey, Ohio, Ontario, Pennsylvania, and West Virginia. Prior to joining us, Mr. Finamore
served as President of Missouri Operations for Ameristar Casinos, Inc. from December of 2000 until February of 2002 and President of Midwest Operations for Station Casinos, Inc. from
July 1998 until November 2000. Mr. Finamore has over 28 years of gaming industry and hotel management experience.

Robert S. Ippolito.In July 2001, we appointed Mr. Ippolito to the position of Vice President, Secretary and Treasurer.
Mr. Ippolito
has served as our Secretary and Treasurer since April 1994 and as our Chief
Financial Officer from April 1994 until July 2001. Mr. Ippolito brings more than 24 years of gaming and racing experience to the management team both as a manager at a major accounting
firm and as an officer of companies in the racing business.

Jordan B. Savitch.Mr. Savitch joined us in September 2002 as Senior Vice President and General Counsel. From June 1999 to April
2002,
Mr. Savitch served as a director and senior executive at iMedium, Inc., a venture-backed software company offering innovative software solutions for increasing sales effectiveness. From
1995 to 1999, Mr. Savitch served as senior corporate counsel at Safeguard Scientifics, Inc., a NYSE-listed company specializing in identifying, developing and operating
emerging technology companies. Mr. Savitch also spent four years in private practice as an associate at Willkie Farr & Gallagher, LLP in New York, New York.

Steven T. Snyder.Mr. Snyder joined us in May 1998, and from 1998 through 2001 served as Vice President of Corporate Development.
In June
2003, he accepted the position of Senior Vice President of Corporate Development and is responsible for identifying and conducting internal and industry analysis of potential acquisitions,
partnerships and other opportunities. Prior to joining us, Mr. Snyder was a partner with Hamilton Partners, Ltd., as well as Managing Director of Municipal and Corporate Investment
Banking for Meridian Capital Markets. Mr. Snyder began his career in finance at Butcher & Singer, where he served as First Vice President of Public Finance.

Governmental Regulations

The gaming and racing industries are highly regulated, and we must maintain our licenses and pay gaming taxes to continue our
operations. Each of our facilities is subject to extensive regulation under the laws, rules and regulations of the jurisdiction where it is located. These laws, rules and regulations generally concern
the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners, managers, and persons with financial interests in the gaming operations. Violations of laws or regulations in one jurisdiction
could result in disciplinary action in other jurisdictions. A more detailed description of the regulations to which we are subject is contained in Exhibit 99.1 to this Annual Report on
Form 10-K, which is incorporated herein by reference.

Our
businesses are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations in addition to gaming regulations. These laws and regulations include, but are not limited to,
restrictions and











conditions
concerning alcoholic beverages, environmental matters, employees, currency transactions, taxation, zoning and building codes, and marketing and advertising. Such laws and regulations could
change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted. Material changes, new laws or regulations, or material differences in interpretations by courts
or governmental authorities could adversely affect our operating results.

Employees and Labor Relations

As of December 31, 2009, we had 14,772 full- and part-time employees.

We
are required to have agreements with the horsemen at each of our racetracks to conduct our live racing and simulcasting activities, with the exception of our tracks in Ohio and New
Mexico. In addition, in order to operate gaming machines in West Virginia, we must maintain agreements with each of the Charles Town Horsemen, pari-mutuel clerks and breeders.

At
the Charles Town Entertainment Complex, we have an agreement with the Charles Town Horsemen with an initial term expiring on December 31, 2011, and an agreement with the
breeders that expires on June 30, 2010. The pari-mutuel clerks at Charles Town are represented under a collective bargaining agreement with the West Virginia Division of Mutuel
Clerks, which expires on December 31, 2010.

Our
agreement with the Pennsylvania Thoroughbred Horsemen at Penn National Race Course expires on September 30, 2011. We have a collective bargaining agreement with Local 137 of
the Sports Arena Employees (AFL-CIO) at Penn National Race Course with respect to pari-mutuel clerks, admissions and Telebet personnel which expires on December 31,
2011. We also have an agreement in place with the Sports Arena Employees Local 137 (AFL-CIO) with respect to pari-mutuel clerks and admission personnel at our OTWs, which
expired on September 30, 2009 and has been extended pending continuing negotiations.

Our
agreement with the Maine Harness Horsemen Association at Bangor Raceway expires on December 31, 2011.

Our
agreement with the Ohio Harness Horsemen Association expires on December 31, 2012.

Pennwood
Racing, Inc. also has an agreement in effect with the horsemen at Freehold Raceway, which expires on December 31, 2011.

Throughout
our Argosy properties, the Seafarers Entertainment and Allied Trade Union represents approximately one thousand eight hundred of our employees. At the Empress Casino Hotel,
the Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees Union ("UNITE/HERE") Local 1 represents approximately three hundred employees under a collective bargaining agreement which expires on March 31,
2011. At certain of our Argosy properties, the Seafarer International Union of North America, Atlantic, Gulf, Lakes and Inland Waters District/NMU, AFL-CIO, the International Brotherhood
of Electrical Workers, the Security Police and Fire Professionals of America, the American Maritime Officers Union, the International Brotherhood of Electronic Workers Local 176, and UNITE/HERE Local
10 represent certain of our employees. We have collective bargaining agreements with these unions that expire at various times between July 2010 and October 2015. None of these unions individually
represent more than fifty of our employees.

Available Information

For more information about us, visit our website at www.pngaming.com. The contents of our website are not part of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K. Our electronic filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (including all annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on
Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to these reports), including the exhibits, are available free of charge through our website as soon
as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish them to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.









