ITEM 1.BUSINESS





Overview

Penn National Gaming, Inc., together with its subsidiaries, is a leading, diversified, multi-jurisdictional owner and manager of gaming and racing properties and video gaming terminal (“VGT”) operations. We currently offer live sports betting at our properties in Indiana, Iowa, Mississippi, Nevada, Pennsylvania and West Virginia. We operate an interactive gaming (“iGaming”) division through our subsidiary, Penn Interactive Ventures, LLC (“Penn Interactive”), which recently launched an online casino (“iCasino”) in Pennsylvania through our HollywoodCasino.com gaming platform and entered into multi-year agreements with leading sports betting operators for online sports betting and iGaming market access across our portfolio of properties. Our MYCHOICE®customer loyalty program currently has over 20 million members and provides such members with various benefits, including complimentary goods and/or services.References in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, to “Penn National,” the “Company,” “we,” “our,” or “us” refer to Penn National Gaming, Inc. and its subsidiaries, except where stated or the context otherwise indicates.

As ofDecember 31, 2019, we owned, managed, or had ownership interests in41properties in19states. The majority of the real estate assets (i.e., land and buildings) used in the Company’s operations are subject to triple net master leases; the most significant of which are thePenn Master Leaseand thePinnacle Master Lease(as such terms are defined in the“Triple Net Leases”section below and collectively referred to as the “Master Leases”), with Gaming and Leisure Properties, Inc. (NASDAQ: GLPI) (“GLPI”), a real estate investment trust (“REIT”). In addition, we are currently developing two Category 4 satellite gaming casinos in Pennsylvania: Hollywood Casino York and Hollywood Casino Morgantown, both of which are expected to commence operations by the end of 2020.

In May 2019, we acquired Greektown Casino-Hotel (“Greektown”) in Detroit, Michigan, subject to a triple net lease with VICI Properties Inc. (NYSE: VICI) (“VICI” and collectively with GLPI, our “REIT Landlords”) (the “Greektown Lease”) and, in January 2019, we acquired Margaritaville Casino Resort (“Margaritaville”) in Bossier City, Louisiana, subject to a triple net lease with VICI (the “Margaritaville Lease” and collectively with the Master Leases, the Greektown Lease and the Meadows Lease (as defined in the“Triple Net Leases”section below), the “Triple Net Leases”).

In October 2018, the Company completed the acquisition of Pinnacle Entertainment, Inc. (“Pinnacle”), a leading regional gaming operator (the “Pinnacle Acquisition”). In conjunction with the Pinnacle Acquisition, the Company divested the membership interests of certain Pinnacle subsidiaries, which operated the casinos known as Ameristar St. Charles, Ameristar Kansas City, Belterra Resort and Belterra Park (referred to collectively as the “Divested Properties”), to Boyd Gaming Corporation (NYSE: BYD). Additionally, as a part of the transaction, GLPI acquired the real estate assets associated with Plainridge Park Casino and concurrently leased back such assets to the Company (the “Plainridge Park Casino Sale-Leaseback”). In connection with the sale of the Divested Properties and the Plainridge Park Casino Sale-Leaseback, thePinnacle Master Lease, which was assumed by the Company concurrent with the closing of the Pinnacle Acquisition, was amended. The Pinnacle Acquisition added 12 gaming properties to our portfolio.

In May 2017, we completed the acquisitions of 1stJackpot Casino (f/k/a Bally’s Casino Tunica) and Resorts Casino Tunica (which ceased operations in June 2019). In August 2016, we enhanced our social gaming offerings with the acquisition of Rocket Speed, Inc. (“Rocket Speed”), a leading developer of social casino games. In June 2015, we opened Plainridge Park Casino in Plainville, Massachusetts, and in August 2015, we completed the acquisition of Tropicana Las Vegas. In September









2015, we acquired Illinois Gaming Investors LLC (d/b/a Prairie State Gaming) (“Prairie State Gaming”), one of the largest VGT route operators in Illinois, which has since acquired four small VGT route operators based in Illinois.

We believe that our portfolio of assets provides us the benefit of geographically-diversified cash flow from operations. We expect to continue to expand our gaming operations through the implementation and execution of a disciplined capital expenditure program at our existing properties, the pursuit of strategic acquisitions and investments, and the development of new gaming properties. In addition, the partnership with Barstool Sports reflects our strategy to continue evolving from the nation’s largest regional gaming operator to a best-in-class omni-channel provider of retail and online gaming and sports betting entertainment.





Triple Net Leases

As noted above, the majority of the real estate assets used in the Company’s operations are subject to either thePenn Master Leaseor thePinnacle Master Lease. In addition, three of the gaming facilities used in our operations are subject to individual triple net leases. Under triple net leases, in addition to lease payments for the real estate assets, the Company is required to pay the following, among other things: (1) all facility maintenance; (2) all insurance required in connection with the leased properties and the business conducted on the leased properties; (3) taxes levied on or with respect to the leased properties (other than taxes on the income of the lessor); and (4) all utilities and other services necessary or appropriate for the leased properties and the business conducted on the leased properties.

The following summaries of theMaster Leasesare qualified in their entirety by reference to either thePenn Master Leaseor thePinnacle Master Lease, as applicable, and subsequent amendments, all of which are incorporated by reference in the exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Penn Master Lease

Pursuant to a triple net master lease with GLPI (the “Penn Master Lease”), which became effective November 1, 2013, the Company leases real estate assets associated with19of the gaming facilities used in its operations. ThePenn Master Leasehas an initial term of 15 years with four subsequent, five-year renewal periods on the same terms and conditions, exercisable at the Company’s option. If we elect to renew the term of thePenn Master Lease, the renewal will be effective as to all of the leased real estate assets then subject to thePenn Master Lease, subject to limitations on the final renewal term with respect to certain of the barge-based facilities.

Pinnacle Master Lease

In connection with the Pinnacle Acquisition, the Company assumed a triple net master lease with GLPI (“Pinnacle Master Lease”), originally effective April 28, 2016. Concurrent with the closing of the Pinnacle Acquisition on October 15, 2018, the Company entered into an amendment to thePinnacle Master Leaseto, among other things, (i) remove Ameristar St. Charles, Ameristar Kansas City and Belterra Resort, and (ii) add Plainridge Park Casino. Pursuant to thePinnacle Master Lease, the Company leases real estate assets associated with 12 of the gaming facilities used in its operations from GLPI. Upon assumption of thePinnacle Master Lease, as amended, there were 7.5 years remaining of the initialten-year term, withfivesubsequent,five-year renewal periods exercisable at the Company’s option.

Meadows Lease, Margaritaville Lease and Greektown Lease

In connection with the Pinnacle Acquisition, the Company assumed a triple net lease of the real estate assets used in the operations of Meadows Racetrack and Casino (the “Meadows Lease”), originally effective September 9, 2016, with GLPI as the landlord. Upon assumption of the Meadows Lease, there were eight years remaining of the initial ten-year term, with three subsequent, five-year renewal options followed by one four-year renewal option on the same terms and conditions, exercisable at the Company’s option.

As discussed above, in separate acquisitions, the Company entered into the Margaritaville Lease with VICI for the real estate assets used in the operations of Margaritaville and the Greektown Lease with VICI for the real estate assets used in the operations of Greektown. Both the Margaritaville Lease and the Greektown Lease have initial terms of 15 years, with four subsequent five-year renewal options on the same terms and conditions, exercisable at the Company’s option.











Operating Properties

The table below summarizes certain features of the properties owned, operated or managed by us as ofDecember 31, 2019, by reportable segment (all area and capacity metrics are approximate):





LocationReal Estate Assets Lease or Ownership StructureType of FacilityGaming Square FootageGaming MachinesTable Games(1)Hotel Rooms

Northeast segment(2)

Ameristar East ChicagoEast Chicago, INPinnacle Master LeaseDockside gaming70,0001,79085288

Greektown Casino-HotelDetroit, MIGreektown LeaseLand-based gaming100,0002,60162400

Hollywood Casino BangorBangor, MEPenn Master LeaseLand-based gaming/racing31,75072614152

Hollywood Casino at Charles Town RacesCharles Town, WVPenn Master LeaseLand-based gaming/racing115,0002,29274153

Hollywood Casino ColumbusColumbus, OHPenn Master LeaseLand-based gaming168,0002,08270—

Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg(3)Lawrenceburg, INPenn Master LeaseDockside gaming146,5001,52158463

Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race CourseGrantville, PAPenn Master LeaseLand-based gaming/racing99,5002,00279—

Hollywood Casino ToledoToledo, OHPenn Master LeaseLand-based gaming125,0002,04169—

Hollywood Gaming at Dayton RacewayDayton, OHPenn Master LeaseLand-based gaming/racing33,5001,045——

Hollywood Gaming at Mahoning Valley Race CourseYoungstown, OHPenn Master LeaseLand-based gaming/racing50,0001,102——

Marquee by Penn(4)PennsylvaniaN/ALand-based gamingN/A75——

Meadows Racetrack and CasinoWashington, PAMeadows LeaseLand-based gaming/racing131,0002,50688—

Plainridge Park CasinoPlainville, MAPinnacle Master LeaseLand-based gaming/racing50,0001,250——



South segment

1stJackpot CasinoTunica, MSPenn Master LeaseDockside gaming40,00084014—

Ameristar VicksburgVicksburg, MSPinnacle Master LeaseDockside gaming70,0001,21227148

Boomtown BiloxiBiloxi, MSPenn Master LeaseDockside gaming35,50065319—

Boomtown Bossier CityBossier City, LAPinnacle Master LeaseDockside gaming30,00072616187

Boomtown New OrleansNew Orleans, LAPinnacle Master LeaseDockside gaming30,0001,15631150

Hollywood Casino Gulf CoastBay St. Louis, MSPenn Master LeaseLand-based gaming51,00092620291

Hollywood Casino TunicaTunica, MSPenn Master LeaseDockside gaming54,00095511494

L’Auberge Baton RougeBaton Rouge, LAPinnacle Master LeaseDockside gaming71,5001,40649205

L’Auberge Lake CharlesLake Charles, LAPinnacle Master LeaseDockside gaming70,0001,52271995

Margaritaville Resort CasinoBossier City, LAMargaritaville LeaseDockside gaming30,0001,22150395



West segment

Ameristar Black HawkBlack Hawk, COPinnacle Master LeaseLand-based gaming56,0001,24040536

Cactus Petes and HorseshuJackpot, NVPinnacle Master LeaseLand-based gaming29,00075424416

M ResortHenderson, NVPenn Master LeaseLand-based gaming96,0001,08940390

Tropicana Las VegasLas Vegas, NVOwnedLand-based gaming72,000640271,470

Zia Park CasinoHobbs, NMPenn Master LeaseLand-based gaming/racing18,000732—154



Midwest segment

Ameristar Council Bluffs(5)Council Bluffs, IAPinnacle Master LeaseDockside gaming35,0001,52625444

Argosy Casino Alton(6)Alton, ILPenn Master LeaseDockside gaming23,00074112—

Argosy Casino RiversideRiverside, MOPenn Master LeaseDockside gaming56,0001,29942258

Hollywood Casino AuroraAurora, ILPenn Master LeaseDockside gaming53,0001,00027—

Hollywood Casino JolietJoliet, ILPenn Master LeaseDockside gaming50,0001,10026100

Hollywood Casino at Kansas Speedway(7)Kansas City, KSOwned - JVLand-based gaming95,0002,00041—

Hollywood Casino St. LouisMaryland Heights, MOPenn Master LeaseDockside gaming120,0002,01763502

Prairie State Gaming(4)IllinoisN/ALand-based gamingN/A1,904——

River City CasinoSt. Louis, MOPinnacle Master LeaseDockside gaming90,0001,94553200



Other

Freehold Raceway(8)Freehold, NJOwned - JVStandardbred racing————

Retama Park Racetrack(9)Selma, TXNone - ManagedThoroughbred racing————

Sam Houston Race Park(10)Houston, TXOwned - JVThoroughbred racing————

Sanford-Orlando Kennel ClubLongwood, FLOwnedGreyhound racing————

Valley Race Park(10)Harlingen, TXOwned - JVGreyhound racing————

2,395,25049,6371,3278,791









(1)Excludes poker tables

(2)We expect that Hollywood Casino York and Hollywood Casino Morgantown will be included within our Northeast segment.

(3)Includes168rooms at our hotel and event center located less than a mile from the gaming facility.

(4)VGT route operations

(5)Includes 284 rooms operated by a third party and located on land leased by us and subleased to such third party.

(6)The riverboat is owned by us and not subject to thePenn Master Lease.

(7)Pursuant to a joint venture with International Speedway Corporation (“International Speedway”)

(8)Pursuant to a joint venture with Greenwood Limited Jersey, Inc., a subsidiary of Greenwood Racing, Inc.

(9)Pursuant to a management contract with Retama Development Corporation

(10)Pursuant to a joint venture with MAXXAM, Inc. (“MAXXAM”)

Northeast Segment

Ameristar East Chicagois located less than 25 miles from downtown Chicago, Illinois and offers guests a gaming and entertainment experience in the Chicago metropolitan area. In addition to gaming amenities, the property features a full-service hotel, a sportsbook for live sports betting, a fitness center, dining venues, lounges and 5,400 square feet of meeting and event space.

Greektown Casino-Hotelis located in the Greektown district of Detroit, Michigan, and is one of four casino hotels in the Detroit-Windsor area. In addition to slot machines, table games and poker tables, Greektown Casino-Hotel features a 30-story hotel, 14,000 square feet of convention and banquet space, and several food and beverage options from casual to fine dining. Further, the property includes a parking structure accommodating 3,400 vehicles.

Hollywood Casino Bangorfeatures gaming amenities; including slot machines, table games and poker tables; a hotel with 5,100 square feet of meeting and multipurpose space; a buffet; a casual dining restaurant; a small entertainment stage; and a four-story parking garage. Bangor Raceway, which is adjacent to the property, is located at historic Bass Park and includes a one-half mile standardbred racetrack and a 12,000 square foot grandstand capable of seating 3,500 patrons.

Hollywood Casino at Charles Town Racesis located within approximately an hour drive of the Baltimore, Maryland and Washington, D.C. markets. In addition to slot machines, table games and poker tables, Hollywood Casino at Charles Town Races includes a sportsbook for live sports betting. The complex also features live thoroughbred racing at a 3/4-mile all-weather lighted thoroughbred racetrack with a 3,000-seat grandstand, two parking garages for 5,800 vehicles and simulcast wagering. Hollywood Casino at Charles Town Races dining options include a high-end steakhouse, a sports bar and entertainment lounge, and an Asian-themed restaurant.

Hollywood Casino Columbusis a Hollywood-themed casino featuring slot machines, table games and 34 poker tables. Hollywood Casino Columbus also includes multiple food and beverage outlets, an entertainment lounge, and structured and surface parking for 4,600 spaces.

Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburgis located along the Ohio River in Lawrenceburg, Indiana, approximately 15 miles west of Cincinnati, Ohio. In addition to slot machines, table games, and poker tables, the Hollywood-themed casino riverboat includes a hotel; a sportsbook; dining options; including a restaurant, bar, nightclub, sports bar, and two cafés; and meeting space. We own and operate a hotel and event center, which was constructed by the City of Lawrenceburg Department of Redevelopment, located within one mile from Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg. The hotel and event center includes 18,000 square feet of multipurpose space and 19,500 square feet of ballroom and meeting space.

Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Courseis located 15 miles northeast of Harrisburg, Pennsylvania. This gaming facility also includes an entertainment bar and lounge, a sports bar, a buffet, a high-end steakhouse and various casual dining options, as well as sports betting and a viewing area for live racing. The facility has ample parking, including a five-story self-parking garage, with capacity for 2,200 cars, and 1,500 surface parking spaces for self and valet parking. The property includes a one-mile all-weather lighted thoroughbred racetrack and a 7/8-mile turf track. In addition, the property offers off-track wagering (“OTW”) at separate facilities located in York, Pennsylvania and Lancaster, Pennsylvania.

Hollywood Casino Toledois a Hollywood-themed casino featuring slot machines, table games and 19 poker tables. Hollywood Casino Toledo also includes multiple food and beverage outlets, an entertainment lounge, and structured and surface parking for 3,300 spaces.

Hollywood Gaming at Dayton Racewayis a Hollywood-themed property featuring video lottery terminals (“VLTs”) and a 5/8-mile standardbred racetrack. Hollywood Gaming at Dayton Raceway also includes various restaurants, bars, surface parking for 1,800 spaces and other amenities.









Hollywood Gaming at Mahoning Valley Race Courseis a Hollywood-themed property featuring VLTs and a one-mile thoroughbred racetrack. Hollywood Gaming at Mahoning Valley Race Course also includes various restaurants, bars, surface parking with 1,250 spaces and other amenities.

Marquee by Pennis our licensed VGT route operator with a network of 15 truck stop establishments in Pennsylvania.

Meadows Racetrack and Casinois located in Washington, Pennsylvania, approximately 25 miles south of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. In addition to gaming amenities, Meadows Racetrack and Casino offers a sportsbook for live sports betting, several dining options, including a steakhouse, food court and a bar. In addition, the property features an events and banquet center, a simulcast betting parlor, a harness racetrack and a bowling alley. The property also offers OTW at a separate facility in Pittsburgh.

Plainridge Park Casinois located 20 miles southwest of the Boston beltway just off interstate 95 in Plainville, Massachusetts. In addition to gaming offerings, Plainridge Park Casino features various restaurants, bars, 1,600 structured and surface parking spaces, and other amenities. Plainridge Park Casino also includes a 5/8-mile live harness racing facility with a two-story clubhouse for simulcast operations, special events, and live racing viewing, which is 55,000 square feet.

South Segment

1stJackpot Casino,the closest Tunica-area casino to downtown Memphis, Tennessee, features slot machines, table games, a steakhouse, a buffet, a café, a sportsbook and a live entertainment venue.

Ameristar Vicksburg,which is the largest dockside casino in central Mississippi, is located along the Mississippi River approximately 45 miles west of Mississippi’s largest city, Jackson. In addition to gaming amenities, the property features a hotel, multiple dining facilities, a club lounge, a sportsbook, a live entertainment venue, and 1,800 square feet of meeting and event space.

Boomtown Biloxioffers slot machines and table games as well as a buffet, a sports bar and grill, a Fat Tuesday, a noodle bar, a sportsbook and a recreational vehicle (“RV”) park. Boomtown Biloxi also features a 3,600 square foot event center and board room and has 1,450 surface parking spaces.

Boomtown Bossier Cityfeatures a hotel adjoining a dockside riverboat casino located less than one mile from the Louisiana Boardwalk. It also offers several dining options, ranging from a high-end steakhouse to casual dining restaurants, including a buffet, and 1,500 square feet of meeting and conference space.

Boomtown New Orleansis located in the West Bank area across the Mississippi River and approximately 15 minutes from the French Quarter of New Orleans, Louisiana. In addition to gaming amenities, it also features a five-story hotel, a fitness center, four restaurants, a 500-seat entertainment venue, and over 14,000 square feet of meeting and conference space.

Hollywood Casino Gulf Coastfeatures slot machines, table games, and poker tables. The waterfront Hollywood Hotel includes a 10,000 square foot ballroom, and nine separate meeting rooms offering more than 14,000 square feet of meeting space. Hollywood Casino Gulf Coast offers live concerts and various entertainment on weekends. The property also features The Bridges golf course, a sportsbook, and various dining facilities, including a steakhouse, a buffet, a grill and a clubhouse lounge as well as an entertainment bar. Other amenities include a RV park and gift shop, lazy river, spa, and pool cabanas.

Hollywood Casino Tunicafeatures gaming offerings, a hotel and a 123-space RV park. Entertainment amenities include a steakhouse, a buffet, a grill, an entertainment lounge, a premium players’ club, a themed bar, a sportsbook, an indoor pool, and showroom as well as banquet and meeting facilities. In addition, Hollywood Casino Tunica offers surface parking with more than 1,600 spaces.

L’Auberge Baton Rougeis located approximately ten miles southeast of downtown Baton Rouge, Louisiana. L’Auberge Baton Rouge offers a fully-integrated casino entertainment experience. It also features a 12-story hotel, a fitness center, four dining outlets, a music bar, and 13,000 square feet of meeting and event space.

L’Auberge Lake Charlesoffers one of the closest full-scale casino hotel facilities to Houston, Texas, as well as to the Austin, Texas and San Antonio, Texas metropolitan areas. The location is approximately 140 miles from Houston and approximately 300 miles and 335 miles from Austin and San Antonio, respectively. L’Auberge Lake Charles features six dining outlets, a golf course, a full-service spa, retail shopping, two bars, and more than 26,000 square feet of meeting and event space.









Margaritaville Resort Casinois one of the premier gaming, lodging, dining and entertainment experiences in Northern Louisiana. The property provides an island-style theme and includes a 15,000 square foot 1,000-seat theater, 9,500 square feet of meeting space, and 1,500 parking spaces.

West Segment

Ameristar Black Hawkis located in the center of the Black Hawk gaming district, approximately 40 miles west of Denver, Colorado. In addition to gaming amenities, the resort features a hotel, a full-service day spa, a fitness center, several dining outlets, a live entertainment bar, a 1,500 space parking structure, and 15,000 square feet of meeting and event space.

Cactus Petes and Horseshu(collectively, “the Jackpot Properties”) are located just south of the Idaho border in Jackpot, Nevada. The Jackpot Properties collectively feature two hotels, four dining options, a 4,000 seat amphitheater, a showroom, a live entertainment lounge, and meeting and event facilities.

M Resort, located approximately ten miles from the Las Vegas strip in Henderson, Nevada, is situated at the southeast corner of Las Vegas Boulevard and St. Rose Parkway. The resort features slot machines, table games and a sportsbook. M Resort also offers a hotel, seven restaurants and six destination bars, more than 60,000 square feet of meeting and conference space, a 4,700 space parking structure, a spa and fitness center, a Topgolf Swing Suite, and a 100,000 square foot event center.

Tropicana Las Vegas,located on the strip in Las Vegas, Nevada, is situated at the corner of Tropicana Boulevard and Las Vegas Boulevard. In addition to gaming, the resort features a hotel, a sportsbook kiosk, four full-service restaurants, a brunch buffet, a food court, a 1,100-seat performance theater, a 300-seat comedy club, over 100,000 square feet of exhibition and meeting space, a five-acre tropical beach event area and spa, and 2,100 parking spaces.

Zia Park Casinoincludes slot machines, two restaurants, and a one-mile quarter/thoroughbred racetrack, with live racing from September to December, and a year-round simulcast parlor. In addition, Zia Park Casino features a hotel, which includes six suites, a business center, exercise/fitness facility and a breakfast venue.

Midwest Segment

Ameristar Council Bluffsis located across the Missouri River from Omaha, Nebraska and includes the largest riverboat in Iowa. In addition to gaming amenities, the property also features a hotel, a fitness center, four dining facilities, a sports bar, and a 5,000 square feet of convention and meeting space.

Argosy Casino Altonis located on the Mississippi River in Alton, Illinois, approximately 20 miles northeast of downtown St. Louis. Argosy Casino Alton is a three-deck riverboat featuring slot machines and table games. Argosy Casino Alton includes an entertainment pavilion and features a large buffet venue, a restaurant, a deli and a 475-seat main showroom. The facility also includes surface parking areas with 1,350 spaces.

Argosy Casino Riversideis located on the Missouri River, approximately five miles from downtown Kansas City. In addition to gaming amenities, this Mediterranean-themed property features a nine-story hotel, a spa, an entertainment facility featuring various food and beverage areas, including a buffet, a steakhouse, a deli, a coffee bar, a Mexican restaurant, a VIP lounge and a sports/entertainment lounge and 19,000 square feet of banquet/conference facilities. Argosy Casino Riverside also has parking for 3,000 vehicles, including a 1,250 space parking garage.

Hollywood Casino Aurorais located in Aurora, Illinois, the second largest city in Illinois, approximately 35 miles west of Chicago. This single-level dockside casino offers guests with gaming amenities, including a poker room. The facility features a steakhouse with a private dining room, a VIP lounge for premium players, a casino bar with video poker, a buffet, and a deli. Hollywood Casino Aurora also has a surface parking lot, two parking garages with 1,500 parking spaces, and a gift shop.

Hollywood Casino Jolietis located on the Des Plaines River in Joliet, Illinois, approximately 40 miles southwest of Chicago. This barge-based casino provides guests with two levels of gaming experience as well as a deli and a VIP lounge. The land-based pavilion includes a steakhouse, a buffet and a sports bar. The complex also includes a hotel, 4,600 square feet of meeting space, a 1,100 space parking garage, surface parking areas with 1,500 spaces and an 80-space RV park.

Hollywood Casino at Kansas Speedway, our 50% joint venture with International Speedway, features slot machines, table games and poker tables. Hollywood Casino at Kansas Speedway offers a variety of dining and entertainment facilities, a meeting room, and has a 1,250-space parking structure.









Hollywood Casino St. Louisis located adjacent to the Missouri River directly off I-70 and approximately 22 miles northwest of downtown St. Louis, Missouri. The facility features slot machines, table games, poker tables, a hotel, nine dining and entertainment venues and structured and surface parking with 4,600 spaces.

Prairie State Gamingis our licensed VGT route operator in Illinois across a network of over 400 bar and/or retail gaming establishments in seven distinct geographic areas throughout Illinois.

River City Casinois located in the St. Louis, Missouri metropolitan area, just south of the confluence of the Mississippi River and the River des Peres in the south St. Louis community of Lemay, Missouri. River City Casino features a hotel, multiple dining outlets, an entertainment lounge, and over 10,000 square feet of conference space.

Other

Freehold Raceway.Through our joint venture in Pennwood Racing, Inc. (“Pennwood”), we own 50% of Freehold Raceway. The property features a half-mile standardbred race track and a 118,000 square foot grandstand. In addition, through our Pennwood joint venture, we own 50% of a leased OTW in Toms River, New Jersey, and operate another OTW, which we constructed, in Gloucester Township, New Jersey.

Retama Park Racetrack.We have a management contract with Retama Development Corporation (“RDC”), a local government corporation of the City of Selma, Texas, to manage the day-to-day operations of Retama Park Racetrack. In addition, we own1.0%of the equity of Retama Nominal Holder, LLC, which holds a nominal interest in the racing license used to operate Retama Park Racetrack. Additionally, we own a 75.5% interest in Pinnacle Retama Partners, LLC (“PRP”), which owns the contingent gaming rights that may arise if gaming under the existing racing license becomes legal in Texas in the future.

Sam Houston Race Park and Valley Race Park.Our joint venture with MAXXAM owns and operates Sam Houston Race Park and Valley Race Park, and holds a license for a racetrack in Manor, Texas, just outside of Austin. Sam Houston Race Park, which is located 15 miles northwest from downtown Houston along Beltway 8, hosts thoroughbred and quarter horse racing and offers daily simulcast operations, as well as hosts various special events, private parties and meetings, concerts and national touring festivals throughout the year. Valley Race Park features 91,000 of property square footage as a dog racing and simulcasting facility.

Sanford-Orlando Kennel Club.Sanford-Orlando Kennel Club is a 1/4-mile greyhound facility. The facility has capacity for 6,500 patrons, with seating for 4,000 and surface parking for 2,500 vehicles. The facility conducts year-round greyhound racing and greyhound, thoroughbred, and harness racing simulcasts.

Penn Interactive

Penn Interactive is our iGaming division, which recently launched an iCasino in Pennsylvania through our HollywoodCasino.com gaming platform and includes the operations of Absolute Games, LLC (“Absolute Games”), a developer and operator of social bingo games. In addition, Penn Interactive recently entered into multi-year agreements with leading sports betting operators for online sports betting and iGaming market access across our portfolio of properties. Pursuant to these agreements, such sports betting operators have commenced operations in Indiana, Pennsylvania and West Virginia. Penn Interactive also operates our internally-branded retail sportsbooks currently located in Indiana, Iowa, Mississippi, Pennsylvania and West Virginia. We anticipate opening retail sportsbooks at our properties in Colorado, Illinois and Michigan as soon as we receive all necessary regulatory approvals.





Trademarks

We own a number of trademarks and service marks registered with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (“USPTO”), including but not limited to, “Ameristar®,” “Argosy®,” “Boomtown®,”“Greektown®,” “Hollywood Casino®,” “Hollywood Gaming®,” “Hollywood Poker®,” “L’Auberge®,” “M Resort®,” and “MYCHOICE®,” among other trademarks. We believe that our rights to our trademarks are well-established and have competitive value to our properties. We also have a number of trademark applications pending with the USPTO.

Among others, we have a licensing agreement with a third party to use the “Margaritaville®” trademark in connection with the operations of Margaritaville in Bossier City, Louisiana. Upon closing of the transaction with Barstool Sports in February 2020, we have the sole right to utilize the Barstool Sports brand for all of our online and retail sports betting and iCasino products. In addition, subject to certain terms, conditions, and limitations, we have the exclusive right to use the “Tropicana Las Vegas®” and certain other trademarks within 50 miles of our Tropicana Las Vegas property.











Competition

The gaming industry is characterized by an increasingly high degree of competition among a large number of participants operating from physical locations and/or through online or mobile platforms, including destination casinos, riverboat casinos; dockside casinos; land-based casinos; video lottery; iGaming; sports betting; gaming at taverns in certain states, such as Illinois; gaming at truck stop establishments in certain states, such as Louisiana and Pennsylvania; historical horse racing in certain states, such as Arkansas, Kentucky and Virginia; sweepstakes and poker machines not located in casinos; fantasy sports; Native American gaming; and other forms of gaming in the U.S.



In a broader sense, our gaming operations face competition from all manner of leisure and entertainment activities, including shopping, athletic events, television and movies, concerts and travel. Legalized gaming is currently permitted in various forms throughout the U.S. and on various lands taken into trust for the benefit of certain Native Americans in the U.S. and Canada. Other jurisdictions, including states adjacent to states in which we currently have properties, have recently legalized, implemented and expanded gaming. In addition, established gaming jurisdictions could award additional gaming licenses or permit the expansion or relocation of existing gaming operations (including VGTs, skill games, sports betting and iGaming).

Competition is discussed in further detail within

