ITEM 1.    BUSINESS

Overview

We are a leading, diversified, multi-jurisdictional owner and manager of gaming and pari-mutuel properties. The Company was
incorporated in Pennsylvania in 1982 as PNRC Corp. and adopted its current name in 1994, when the Company became a publicly traded company. In 1997, we began our transition from a pari-mutuel company
to a diversified gaming company with the acquisition of the Charles Town property and the introduction of video lottery terminals in West Virginia. Since 1997, we have continued to expand our gaming
operations through strategic acquisitions, greenfield projects, and property expansions. We, along with our joint venture partner, opened Hollywood Casino at Kansas Speedway on February 3, 2012
and in Ohio, we opened our Hollywood Casino Toledo facility on May 29, 2012 and our Hollywood Casino Columbus facility on October 8, 2012. In addition, on November 2, 2012, we
acquired Harrah's St. Louis facility, which has been rebranded as Hollywood Casino St. Louis. We are in the process of constructing two facilities in Dayton and Austintown, Ohio that
will feature approximately 1,000 and 850 video lottery terminals, respectively, as well as various restaurants, bars, and other amenities. We expect to open these facilities in the second half of
2014.

We
believe that our portfolio of assets provides us with a geographically diversified cash flow from operations. We continue to expand our gaming operations through the implementation
and execution of a disciplined capital expenditure program at our existing properties, the pursuit of strategic acquisitions and the development of new gaming properties, particularly in attractive
regional markets. Current capital projects are ongoing at several of our properties.

In
this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the terms "we," "us," "our," the "Company" and "Penn" refer to Penn National Gaming, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context
indicates otherwise.

Spin-Off of Real Estate Assets through a Real Estate Investment Trust

On November 15, 2012, we announced that we intended to pursue a plan to separate the majority of our operating assets and real
property assets into two publicly traded companies, including an operating entity, Penn and, through a tax-free spin-off of our real estate assets to holders of our common and preferred stock, a newly
formed publicly traded entity that intends to qualify as a real estate investment trust ("REIT"), named Gaming and Leisure Properties, Inc. ("GLPI") (the "Spin-Off").

On
November 1, 2013, Penn effected the Spin-Off by distributing one share of common stock of GLPI to the holders of Penn common stock and Series C Convertible Preferred
Stock ("Series C Preferred Stock") for every share of Penn common stock and every 1/1000th of a share of Series C Preferred Stock
that they held at the close of business on October 16, 2013, the record date for the Spin-Off. Additionally, Peter M. Carlino and the PMC Delaware Dynasty Trust dated September 25, 2013,
a trust for the benefit of Mr. Carlino's children, also received additional shares of GLPI common stock, in exchange for shares of Penn common stock that they transferred to Penn immediately
prior to the Spin-Off, and Mr. Carlino exchanged certain options to acquire Penn common stock for options to acquire GLPI common stock having the same aggregate intrinsic value. Penn engaged in
these exchanges with Mr. Carlino and his related trust to ensure that each member of the Carlino family beneficially owns 9.9% or less of the outstanding shares of Penn common stock following
the Spin-Off, so that GLPI can qualify to be taxed as a REIT for United States ("U.S.") federal income tax purposes.

In
addition, the Company contributed to GLPI through a series of internal corporate restructurings substantially all of the assets and liabilities associated with Penn's real property
interests and real estate development business, as well as the assets and liabilities of Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge and









Hollywood
Casino Perryville, which are referred to as the "TRS Properties." As a result of the Spin-Off, GLPI owns substantially all of Penn's former real property assets and leases back most of those
assets to Penn for use by its subsidiaries, under a "triple net" 15 year Master Lease agreement (the "Master Lease"), which includes four 5 year renewals, that are at Penn's option, and
GLPI also owns and operates the TRS Properties through its Taxable REIT Subsidiaries ("TRS"). Penn continues to operate the leased gaming facilities, hold the associated gaming licenses and owns and
operates other assets, including the Casino Rama casino management contract, the 50% joint venture interest in Hollywood Casino at Kansas Speedway, seven non-casino racetracks and gaming equipment. As
a result of the Spin-Off, the Company's results for the year ended December 31, 2013 only include the TRS properties for the period January 1, 2013 through October 31, 2013.

The
Company received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (the "IRS") relating to the tax treatment of the separation and the qualification of GLPI as a REIT. The
private letter ruling is subject to certain qualifications and based on certain representations and statements made by the Company and certain of its shareholders. If such representations and
statements are untrue or incomplete in any material respect (including as a result of a material change in the transaction or other relevant facts), the Company may not be able to rely on the private
letter ruling. The Company has received opinions from outside counsel regarding certain aspects of the transaction that are not covered by the private letter ruling.

Prior
to the Spin-Off, we entered into a Separation and Distribution Agreement with GLPI setting forth the mechanics of the Spin-Off, certain organizational matters and other ongoing
obligations of the Company and GLPI. The Company and GLPI or their respective subsidiaries, as applicable, also entered into a number of other agreements prior to the Spin-Off to provide a framework
for the restructuring and for the relationships between GLPI and the Company.

As
a result of the Spin-Off, we lease back real property assets associated with 17 of our gaming and related facilities used in our operations from GLPI under the Master Lease. The rent
structure under the Master Lease includes a fixed component, a portion of which is subject to an annual 2% escalator if certain rent coverage ratio thresholds are met, and a component that is based on
the performance of the facilities, which is adjusted, subject to certain floors (i) every 5 years by an amount equal to 4% of the average change to net revenues of all facilities under
the Master Lease (other than Hollywood Casino Columbus and Hollywood Casino Toledo) during the preceding five years, and (ii) monthly by an amount equal to 20% of the change in net revenues of
Hollywood Casino Columbus and Hollywood Casino Toledo during the preceding month. In addition to rent, we are required to pay the following: (1) all facility maintenance, (2) all
insurance required in connection with the leased properties and the business conducted on the leased properties, (3) taxes levied on or with respect to the leased properties (other than taxes
on the income of the lessor) and (4) all utilities and other services necessary or appropriate for the leased properties and the business conducted on the leased properties.

At
our option, the Master Lease may be extended for up to four five-year renewal terms beyond the initial 15-year term, on the same terms and conditions. If we elect to renew the term of
the Master Lease, the renewal will be effective as to all, but not less than all, of the leased property then subject to the Master Lease, provided that the final renewal option shall only be
exercisable with respect to certain of the barge-based facilities—i.e., facilities where barges serve as foundations upon which buildings are constructed to serve as gaming or
related facilities or serve ancillary purposes such as access platforms or shear barges to protect a gaming facility from floating debris—following an independent third party expert's
review of the total useful life of the applicable barged-based facility measured from the beginning of the initial term. If the final five-year renewal term would not cause the aggregate term to
exceed 80% of the useful life of such facility, the facility shall be included in the five-year renewal. In the event that a five-year renewal of such facility would cause it to exceed 80% of









the
estimated useful life, such facility shall be included in the renewal for the period of time equal to but not exceeding 80% of the estimated useful life.

We
do not have the ability to terminate our obligations under the Master Lease prior to its expiration without GLPI's consent. If the Master Lease is terminated prior to its expiration
other than with GLPI's consent, we may be liable for damages and incur charges such as continued payment of rent through the end of the lease term and maintenance costs for the leased property.

Segments

Our Chief Executive Officer, who is the Company's Chief Operating Decision Maker ("CODM") as that term is defined in Financial
Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 280, "Segment Reporting" ("ASC 280"), measures and assesses our business performance based on regional operations of
various properties grouped together based primarily on their geographic locations. Therefore, we aggregate our properties into three reportable segments: (i) Midwest, (ii) East/West, and
(iii) Southern Plains. See "Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "Item 8—Financial Statements
and Supplementary Data—Note 16—Segment Information."

The
Midwest reportable segment consists of the following properties: Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg, Hollywood Casino Aurora, Hollywood Casino Joliet, Argosy Casino Alton, Hollywood
Casino Toledo, which opened on May 29, 2012, and Hollywood Casino Columbus, which opened on October 8, 2012. It also includes our Casino Rama management service contract and the Mahoning
Valley and Dayton Raceway projects in Ohio which we anticipate completing in 2014.

The
East/West reportable segment consists of the following properties: Hollywood Casino at Charles Town Races, Hollywood Casino Bangor, Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course, Zia
Park Casino, and the M Resort. It also includes Hollywood Casino Perryville, which, as part of the Spin-Off was contributed to GLPI on November 1, 2013.

The
Southern Plains reportable segment consists of the following properties: Argosy Casino Riverside, Argosy Casino Sioux City, Hollywood Casino Tunica, Hollywood Casino Bay
St. Louis, Boomtown Biloxi, Hollywood Casino St. Louis (formerly Harrah's St. Louis which was acquired from Caesars Entertainment on November 2, 2012), and includes our 50%
investment in Kansas Entertainment, LLC ("Kansas Entertainment"), which owns the Hollywood Casino at Kansas Speedway that opened on February 3, 2012. It also includes Hollywood Casino
Baton Rouge, which, as part of the Spin-Off was contributed to GLPI on November 1, 2013.

The
Other category consists of our standalone racing operations, namely Beulah Park, Raceway Park, Rosecroft Raceway, Sanford-Orlando Kennel Club, and our joint venture interests in Sam
Houston Race Park, Valley Race Park and Freehold Raceway. It also included our joint venture interest in the Maryland Jockey Club, which was sold in July 2011, and our Bullwhackers property which was
sold on July 1, 2013. If we are successful in obtaining gaming operations at these locations, they would be assigned to one of our regional executives and reported in their respective
reportable segment. The Other category also includes our corporate overhead operations, which does not meet the definition of an operating segment under ASC 280.

In
January 2014, we named Jay Snowden as our Chief Operating Officer and the Company decided in connection with this decision to re-align its reporting structure. Starting in 2014, our
reportable segments will be: (i) East/Midwest, (ii) West, and (iii) Southern Plains. Specifically, Hollywood Casino at Charles Town Races, Hollywood Casino Bangor, and Hollywood
Casino at Penn National Race Course (previously in our East/West segment) will become part of the East/Midwest segment, and Hollywood Casino Aurora, Hollywood Casino Joliet, and Argosy Casino Alton
(previously in our Midwest segment) will become part of the Southern Plains segment. Our West segment will









consist
of Zia Park Casino and the M Resort, as well as the Jamul development project which we anticipate completing in early 2016. Once this re-alignment is completed, we will reclassify prior year
amounts to conform to our new reporting structure in accordance with ASC 280.

Properties

As of December 31, 2013, we owned, managed, or had ownership interests in twenty-six facilities in the following seventeen
jurisdictions: Florida, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Maine, Maryland, Mississippi, Missouri, Nevada, New Jersey, New Mexico, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Texas, West Virginia, and Ontario. On
July 1, 2013, the Company sold its Bullwhackers property located in Colorado and no longer has any operations in that state. Additionally, as a result of the Spin-Off, Hollywood Casino Baton
Rouge in Louisiana and Hollywood Casino Perryville in Maryland were contributed in their entirety to GLPI on November 1, 2013. The real estate of the leased properties described below was also
contributed to GLPI; however, Penn continues to operate the leased gaming facilities.

The
following table summarizes certain features of the leased properties operated and managed by us as of December 31, 2013:

Leased Properties(1)

LocationType of FacilityApprox.PropertySquareFootage(2)GamingMachinesTableGames(3)HotelRoomsHollywood Casino at Charles Town RacesCharles Town, WVLand-based gaming/Thoroughbred racing511,2493,18998153Hollywood Casino LawrenceburgLawrenceburg, INDockside gaming634,0002,39974295Hollywood Casino ToledoToledo, OHLand-based gaming285,3352,04560—Hollywood Casino ColumbusColumbus, OHLand-based gaming354,0752,51479—Hollywood Casino St. LouisMaryland Heights, MOLand-based gaming645,2702,12259502Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race CourseGrantville, PALand-based gaming/Thoroughbred racing451,7582,45653—M ResortHenderson, NVLand-based gaming910,1731,48048390Argosy Casino RiversideRiverside, MODockside gaming450,3971,52631258Hollywood Casino Bay St. LouisBay St. Louis, MSLand-based gaming425,9201,14920291Hollywood Casino TunicaTunica, MSDockside gaming315,8311,11224494Hollywood Casino AuroraAurora, ILDockside gaming222,1891,15721—Boomtown BiloxiBiloxi, MSDockside gaming134,80099916—Hollywood Casino JolietJoliet, ILDockside gaming322,4461,17723100Hollywood Casino BangorBangor, MELand-based gaming/Harness racing257,08590012152Argosy Casino Alton(4)Alton, ILDockside gaming241,76299712—Argosy Casino Sioux City(4)Sioux City, IADockside gaming73,04670516—Zia Park CasinoHobbs, NMLand-based gaming/Thoroughbred racing109,067750——​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Total6,344,40326,6776462,635​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​

(1)This
chart does not include the two properties still under development in Dayton, OH and Mahoning Valley, OH.(2)Square
footage includes conditioned space and excludes parking garages and barns.(3)Excludes
poker tables.(4)Excludes
the riverboats, which continue to be owned by Penn.









The
following table summarizes certain features of the other properties owned and operated, or managed, by us as of December 31, 2013:

Other Properties

LocationType of FacilityApprox.PropertySquareFootage(1)GamingMachinesTableGames(2)HotelRoomsOwned Properties:Hollywood Casino at Kansas Speedway(3)Kansas City, KSLand-based gaming244,7912,00040—Beulah Park(4)Grove City, OHThoroughbred racing509,066———Freehold Raceway(5)Freehold, NJStandardbred racing132,865———Raceway Park(6)Toledo, OHStandardbred racing58,000———Rosecroft RacewayOxon Hill, MDStandardbred racing183,950———Sanford-Orlando Kennel ClubLongwood, FLGreyhound racing58,940———Sam Houston Race Park(7)Houston, TXThoroughbred racing283,383———Valley Race Park(7)Harlingen, TXGreyhound racing118,216———Managed Property:Casino Rama(8)Orillia, OntarioLand-based gaming864,0472,439105289​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Total2,453,2584,439145289​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​

(1)Square
footage includes conditioned space and excludes parking garages and barns.(2)Excludes
poker tables.(3)Pursuant
to a joint venture with International Speedway Corporation ("International Speedway").(4)Operations
for this property are being relocated to a new location in Austintown, Ohio. We transferred the real property associated with this development
project to GLPI in connection with the Spin-Off and will continue development in cooperation with GLPI.(5)Pursuant
to a joint venture with Greenwood Limited Jersey, Inc., a subsidiary of Greenwood Racing, Inc.(6)Operations
for this property are being relocated to a new location in Dayton, Ohio. We transferred the real property associated with this development
project to GLPI in connection with the Spin-Off and will continue development in cooperation with GLPI.(7)Pursuant
to a joint venture with MAXXAM, Inc. ("MAXXAM").(8)Pursuant
to a management contract.

As
mentioned above, we organize the properties we operate, manage and own, as applicable, into three segments, Midwest, East/West and Southern Plains. Below is a description of each of
our properties by segment.

Midwest Properties

Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg

Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg is located on the Ohio River in Lawrenceburg, Indiana, approximately 15 miles west of Cincinnati. The
Hollywood-themed casino riverboat has 634,000 square feet of property square footage with 2,399 slot machines, 74 table games and 19 poker tables. Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg also includes a
295-room hotel, as well as a restaurant, a bar, a nightclub, a sports bar, two cafes and meeting space.

The
City of Lawrenceburg is currently constructing a hotel near our Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg property. By contractual agreement with the City of Lawrenceburg, this hotel will
ultimately be operated by a subsidiary of the Company upon completion of construction. The new hotel is currently slated to include 168 rooms and approximately 18,000 square feet of multipurpose
space. The City of Lawrenceburg anticipates an opening date in the second quarter of 2014.

Hollywood Casino Aurora

Hollywood Casino Aurora, part of the Chicagoland market, is located in Aurora, Illinois, the second largest city in Illinois,
approximately 35 miles west of Chicago. This single-level dockside casino provides 222,189 of property square footage with 1,157 slot machines, 21 gaming tables and 6 poker tables. The facility
features a steakhouse with a private dining room, a VIP lounge for premium players, a casino bar with video poker, a buffet, and a deli. Hollywood Casino Aurora also has a surface parking lot, two
parking garages with approximately 1,500 parking spaces, and a gift shop.







Hollywood Casino Joliet

Hollywood Casino Joliet, part of the Chicagoland market, is located on the Des Plaines River in Joliet, Illinois, approximately 40
miles southwest of Chicago. This barge-based casino provides two levels with 1,177 slot machines, 23 table games and 4 poker tables. The land-based pavilion includes a steakhouse, a buffet, a deli,
and a sports bar and entertainment lounge. The complex also includes a 100-room hotel, a 1,100 space parking garage, surface parking areas with approximately 1,500 spaces and an 80-space recreational
vehicle park. In total, the facility includes 322,446 of property square footage.

Argosy Casino Alton

Argosy Casino Alton is located on the Mississippi River in Alton, Illinois, approximately 20 miles northeast of downtown
St. Louis. Argosy Casino Alton is a three-deck gaming facility featuring 241,762 of property square footage with 997 slot machines and 12 table games. Argosy
Casino Alton includes an entertainment pavilion and features a 214-seat buffet, a restaurant, a deli and a 475-seat main showroom. The facility also includes surface parking areas with 1,341 spaces.

Hollywood Casino Toledo

Hollywood Casino Toledo is located in Toledo, Ohio and opened on May 29, 2012. Hollywood Casino Toledo is a Hollywood-themed
casino featuring 285,335 of property square footage with 2,045 slot machines, 60 table games and 20 poker tables. Hollywood Casino Toledo also includes multiple food and beverage outlets, an
entertainment lounge, and structured and surface parking for approximately 3,300 spaces.

Hollywood Casino Columbus

Hollywood Casino Columbus is located in Columbus, Ohio and opened on October 8, 2012. Hollywood Casino Columbus is a
Hollywood-themed casino featuring 354,075 of property square footage with 2,514 slot machines, 79 table games and 30 poker tables. Hollywood Casino Columbus also includes multiple food and beverage
outlets, an entertainment lounge, and structured and surface parking for 4,616 spaces.

Casino Rama

Through CHC Casinos Canada Limited ("CHC Casinos"), our indirectly wholly-owned subsidiary, we manage Casino Rama, a full service
gaming and entertainment facility, on behalf of the Ontario Lottery and Gaming Corporation ("OLGC"), an agency of the Province of Ontario. Casino Rama is located on the lands of the Rama First Nation,
approximately 90 miles north of Toronto. The property has 864,047 of property square footage with 2,439 gaming machines, 105 table games and 12 poker tables. In addition, the property includes a
5,000-seat entertainment facility, a 289-room hotel and 3,642 surface parking spaces.

The
Development and Operating Agreement (the "Agreement"), which we refer to as the management service contract for Casino Rama, sets out the duties, rights and obligations of CHC
Casinos and our indirectly wholly-owned subsidiary, CRC Holdings, Inc. The compensation under the Agreement is a base fee equal to 2.0% of gross revenues of the casino and an incentive fee
equal to 5.0% of the casino's net operating profit.

In
August 2012, the Casino Rama Agreement was extended on a month-to-month basis with a 60-day notice period and, unless extended, would expire on September 30, 2014. The OLGC has
announced plans to explore bids for new operating contracts and privatization plans in Ontario. As a









result,
there can be no assurance as to how long the OLGC will continue to engage us to manage the property.

Midwest Development Projects

In June 2012, we announced that we had filed applications with the Ohio Lottery Commission for Video Lottery Sales Agent Licenses for
Raceway Park and Beulah Park, and with the Ohio State Racing Commission for permission to relocate these racetracks in Toledo and Grove City to Dayton and Austintown (located in the Mahoning Valley),
respectively. The Dayton facility, a standardbred track, will be located on 119 acres on the site of an abandoned Delphi Automotive plant near Wagner Ford and Needmore roads in North Dayton. The
Austintown facility, which will be a thoroughbred track, will be located on 193 acres in Austintown's Centrepointe Business Park near the intersection of Interstate 80 and Ohio Route 46. The Dayton
facility and the Austintown facility will feature approximately 1,000 and 850 video lottery terminals, respectively, as well as various restaurants, bars and other amenities. On May 1, 2013,
the Company received approval from the Ohio Racing Commission for our relocation plans for each new racetrack and video lottery terminal facility and expects both to open in the second half of 2014.
Additionally, as part of the Spin-Off, GLPI owns certain real estate assets associated with these projects and will be responsible for certain real estate related construction costs for the Austintown
facility and Dayton facility.

East/West Properties

Hollywood Casino at Charles Town Races

Hollywood Casino at Charles Town Races is located in Charles Town, West Virginia, within approximately a one-hour drive of the
Baltimore, Maryland and Washington, D.C. markets. Hollywood Casino at Charles Town Races features 511,249 of property square footage with 3,189 gaming machines and a 153-room hotel. Hollywood Casino
at Charles Town Races also features various dining options, including a high-end steakhouse, a sports bar and entertainment lounge, as well as an Asian restaurant. The property has 98 table games and
26 poker tables. The complex also features live thoroughbred racing at a3/4-mile all-weather lighted thoroughbred racetrack with a 3,000-seat grandstand, parking for 5,781 vehicles and
simulcast wagering and dining.

Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course

Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course is located in Grantville, Pennsylvania, which is 15 miles northeast of Harrisburg.
Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course features 451,758 of property square footage with 2,456 slot machines, 53 table games and 16 poker tables. The facility also includes an entertainment bar
and lounge, a sports bar, a buffet, a high-end steakhouse and various casual dining options, as well as a simulcast facility and viewing area for live racing. The facility has ample parking, including
a five-story self-parking garage, with capacity for approximately 2,200 cars, and approximately 1,500 surface parking spaces for self and valet parking. The property includes a one-mile all-weather
lighted thoroughbred racetrack and a7/8-mile turf track. The property also includes 393 acres that are available for future expansion or development.

M Resort

The M Resort, located approximately ten miles from the Las Vegas strip in Henderson, Nevada, is situated on over 90 acres on the
southeast corner of Las Vegas Boulevard and St. Rose Parkway. The resort features 910,173 of property square footage with 1,480 slot machines and 48 table games. The M Resort also offers
390 guest rooms and suites, six restaurants and six destination bars, more than 60,000 square feet of meeting and conference space, a 4,700 space parking facility, a spa and fitness center and a
100,000 square foot events piazza.









Hollywood Casino Bangor

Hollywood Casino Bangor, which is located in Bangor, Maine, includes 257,085 of property square footage with 900 slot machines, 12
table games and 4 poker tables. Hollywood Casino Bangor's amenities include a 152-room hotel with 5,119 square feet of meeting and pre-function space, two eateries, a buffet and a snack bar, a small
entertainment stage, and a four-story parking garage with 1,500 spaces. Bangor Raceway, which is adjacent to the property, is located at historic Bass Park and includes a one-half mile standardbred
racetrack and grandstand to seat 3,500 patrons.

Zia Park Casino

Zia Park Casino is located in Hobbs, New Mexico and includes a casino, as well as an adjoining racetrack. In total the property
includes 109,067 of property square footage with 750 slot machines and two restaurants. The property has a one-mile quarter/thoroughbred racetrack, with live racing from September to December, and a
year-round simulcast parlor. In September 2013, we commenced construction of a new hotel, budgeted at $26.2 million, which is expected to open in the fourth quarter of 2014 and will include 150
rooms, six suites, a board/meeting room, exercise/fitness facilities and a breakfast venue.

Southern Plains Properties

Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis

Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis, which is located in Bay St. Louis, Mississippi, features 425,920 of property square
footage with 1,149 slot machines, 20 table games, and 5 poker tables. The waterfront Hollywood Hotel features 291 rooms, a 10,000 square foot ballroom, and nine separate meeting rooms offering more
than 14,000 square feet of meeting space. Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis offers live concerts and various entertainment on weekends. The property also features The Bridges golf course, an
18-hole championship golf course. Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis has various dining facilities including a steakhouse, a buffet, a casual dining room and a clubhouse lounge as well as an
entertainment bar. Other amenities include a recreational vehicle park with 100 spaces and a gift shop.

Argosy Casino Riverside

Argosy Casino Riverside is located on the Missouri River, approximately five miles from downtown Kansas City in Riverside, Missouri.
The property features 450,397 of property square footage with 1,526 slot machines and 31 table games. This Mediterranean-themed casino and hotel features a nine-story, 258-room hotel and spa, an
entertainment facility featuring various food and beverage areas, including a buffet, a steakhouse, a deli, a coffee bar, a VIP lounge and a sports/entertainment lounge and 19,000 square feet of
banquet/conference facilities. Argosy Casino Riverside also has parking for approximately 3,000 vehicles, including a 1,250 space parking garage.

Hollywood Casino Tunica

Hollywood Casino Tunica is located in Tunica, Mississippi. This single-level property features 315,831 of property square footage with
1,112 slot machines, 24 table games and 6 poker tables. Hollywood Casino Tunica also has a 494-room hotel and 123-space recreational vehicle park. Entertainment amenities include a steakhouse, a
buffet, a grill, an entertainment lounge, a premium players' club, a themed bar facility, an indoor pool and showroom as well as banquet and meeting facilities. In addition, Hollywood Casino Tunica
offers surface parking with 1,635 spaces.









Boomtown Biloxi

Boomtown Biloxi is located in Biloxi, Mississippi and offers 134,800 of property square footage with 999 slot machines, 16 table games
and 5 poker tables. It features a buffet, a steakhouse and a 24-hour grill and bakery. Boomtown Biloxi also has 1,450 surface parking spaces.

Argosy Casino Sioux City

Argosy Casino Sioux City is located on the Missouri River in downtown Sioux City, Iowa. The riverboat features 73,046 of property
square footage with 705 slot machines, 16 table games and 4 poker tables. The casino is complemented by adjacent barge facilities featuring dining facilities, meeting space, and 524 parking spaces. In
Iowa, each gaming license is issued jointly to a gaming operator and a local charitable organization. The agreement between our gaming operator subsidiary and its local charitable organization for the
Argosy Casino Sioux City expired in early July 2012. On April 18, 2013, the Iowa Racing and Gaming Commission ("IRGC") awarded a new gaming license to operate a land-based casino in Woodbury
County to another operator. The IRGC has indicated that it intends to permit us to continue operation at our Sioux City facility until such time as the new casino opens to the public or until the
appeals from the IRGC's decision are exhausted, but not beyond. There can be no assurance that this facility will remain open through 2014.

Hollywood Casino at Kansas Speedway

Hollywood Casino at Kansas Speedway, our 50% joint venture with International Speedway, is located in Kansas City, Kansas and opened on
February 3, 2012. The facility features 244,791 of property square footage with 2,000 slot machines, 40 table games and 12 poker tables. Hollywood Casino at Kansas Speedway offers a variety of
dining and entertainment facilities as well as has a 1,253 space parking structure.

Hollywood Casino St. Louis

Hollywood Casino St. Louis is located adjacent to the Missouri River in Maryland Heights, Missouri, directly off I-70 and
approximately 22 miles northwest of downtown St. Louis, Missouri. The facility is situated on 248 acres along the Missouri River and features 645,270 of property square footage with 2,122 slot
machines, 59 table games, 21 poker tables, a 502 guestroom hotel, nine dining and entertainment venues and structured and surface parking for approximately 4,600 spaces. At the end of 2013, we
completed the transition of the property to our Hollywood Casino brand name.

Other Properties

Raceway Park

Raceway Park features 58,000 of property square footage with a5/8-mile standardbred race track located in Toledo, Ohio.
The facility also features simulcast wagering and has theatre-style seating capacity for 1,977 and surface parking for 3,000 vehicles. As mentioned above, we are currently working on relocating the
racetrack to Dayton, Ohio.

Beulah Park

Beulah Park is a thoroughbred racing facility located in Grove City, Ohio on 210 acres just outside of Columbus, Ohio. Beulah Park
features live thoroughbred racing from October to May as well as simulcast wagering from a number of nationwide tracks. Beulah Park includes a grandstand, outdoor paddock, a clubhouse facility and
numerous food and dining options. As mentioned above, we are currently working on relocating the racetrack to Austintown, Ohio.









Rosecroft Raceway

Rosecroft Raceway, located approximately 13 miles south of Washington, D.C., is situated on 125 acres just outside the Washington I-495
Beltway in Prince George's county. The Rosecroft facility features a5/8-mile standardbred race track with a seven race paddock, a 53,000 square foot grandstand building, and a 96,000
square foot three story clubhouse building with dining facilities.

Sanford-Orlando Kennel Club

Sanford-Orlando Kennel Club is a1/4-mile greyhound facility located in Longwood, Florida. The facility has capacity for
6,500 patrons, with seating for 4,000 and surface parking for 2,500 vehicles. The facility conducts year-round greyhound racing and greyhound, thoroughbred, and harness racing simulcasts.

Freehold Raceway

Through our joint venture in Pennwood Racing, Inc. ("Pennwood"), we own 50% of Freehold Raceway, located in Freehold, New
Jersey. The property features a half-mile standardbred race track and a 117,715 square foot grandstand.

Sam Houston Race Park and Valley Race Park

Our joint venture with MAXXAM owns and operates the Sam Houston Race Park in Houston, Texas and the Valley Race Park in Harlingen,
Texas, and holds a license for a
planned racetrack in Laredo, Texas. Sam Houston Race Park is located 15 miles northwest from downtown Houston along Beltway 8. Sam Houston Race Park hosts thoroughbred and quarter horse racing and
offers daily simulcast operations, as well as hosts various special events, private parties and meetings, concerts and national touring festivals throughout the year. Valley Race Park features 118,216
of property square footage as a dog racing and simulcasting facility located in Harlingen, Texas.

Off-track Wagering Facilities

Our off-track wagering facilities ("OTWs") and racetracks provide areas for viewing import simulcast races of thoroughbred and
standardbred horse racing, televised sporting events, placing pari-mutuel wagers and dining. We operate three OTWs in Pennsylvania, and through our joint venture in Pennwood, we own 50% of a leased
OTW in Toms River, New Jersey.

Trademarks

We own a number of trademarks registered with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office ("U.S. PTO"), including but not limited to,
"Telebet," "The World Series of Handicapping," and "Players' Choice." We also have a number of trademark applications pending with the U.S. PTO.

BTN, Inc.,
our wholly-owned subsidiary, entered into a License Agreement with Boomtown, Inc., dated August 8, 2000 pursuant to which it uses "Boomtown" and other
trademarks.

As
a result of our acquisitions of Hollywood Casino Corporation and Argosy Gaming Company, we own the service marks "Hollywood Casino" and "Argosy" which are registered with the U.S.
PTO. We believe that our rights to the "Hollywood Casino" and "Argosy" service marks are well established and have competitive value to the Hollywood Casino and Argosy properties.

Competition

The gaming industry is characterized by an increasingly high degree of competition among a large number of participants, including
riverboat casinos, dockside casinos, land-based casinos, video lottery,









sweepstakes
and poker machines not located in casinos, Native American gaming, emerging varieties of Internet gaming and other forms of gaming in the U.S. In a broader sense, our gaming operations
face competition from all manner of leisure and entertainment activities, including: shopping; athletic events; television and movies; concerts and travel. Legalized gaming is currently permitted in
various forms throughout the U.S., in several Canadian provinces and on various lands taken into trust for the benefit of certain Native Americans in the U.S. and Canada. Other jurisdictions,
including states adjacent to states in which we currently have facilities (such as in Ohio and Maryland), have legalized, and will expand gaming in the near future. In addition, established gaming
jurisdictions could award additional gaming licenses or permit the expansion or relocation of existing gaming operations. New, relocated or expanded operations by other persons will increase
competition for our gaming operations and could have a material adverse impact on us. Finally, the imposition of smoking bans and/or higher gaming tax rates have a significant impact on our
properties' ability to compete with facilities in nearby jurisdictions.

Our
racing operations face significant competition for wagering dollars from other racetracks and OTWs, some of which also offer other forms of gaming, as well as other gaming venues
such as casinos. Additionally, for a number of years, there has been a general decline in the number of people attending and wagering on live horse races at North American racetracks due to a number
of factors, including increased competition from other wagering and entertainment alternatives and unwillingness of customers to travel a significant distance to racetracks. Our account wagering
operations compete with other providers of such services throughout the country. We also may face competition in the future from new OTWs, new racetracks, instant racing, or new providers of account
wagering. From time to time, states consider legislation to permit other forms of gaming. If additional gaming opportunities become available near our racing operations, such gaming opportunities
could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Midwest.

In
Illinois, the tenth licensed casino opened on July 18, 2011 in Des Plaines. As a result, Hollywood Casino Aurora and Hollywood Casino Joliet faced additional competition as the
facilities are located in the suburban area northwest of Chicago. While the Governor of Illinois vetoed two gaming expansion bills in the last two years it is likely new gaming expansion proposals
will be introduced in the near future. In Kentucky, a bill was defeated in 2012 that would have allowed a referendum on casinos. Currently, legislators are working on new expansion gambling proposals
in









Kentucky.
The Nebraska legislature is also considering gaming legislation. The commencement of gaming in Kentucky or Nebraska or the expansion of gaming in Illinois would negatively impact certain of
our existing Midwest properties.

East/West.

Southern Plains.In Kansas, the legislature approved the expansion of casino gaming in its state, and on February 3, 2012, Kansas
Entertainment, a joint venture of affiliates of International Speedway and us, opened the facility, which is located approximately 17 miles from Argosy Casino Riverside. The opening of this casino has
had a negative impact on the financial results of Argosy Casino Riverside due to their close proximity to one another. In the Mississippi Gulf Coast market, a casino in Biloxi opened in late May 2012,
which has had an adverse effect on the financial results of our Boomtown Biloxi property.

U.S. and Foreign Revenues

Our net revenues in the U.S. for 2013, 2012, and 2011 were approximately $2,905.6 million, $2,884.7 million, and
$2,727.1 million, respectively. Our revenues from operations in Canada for 2013, 2012, and 2011 were approximately $13.2 million, $14.8 million, and $15.2 million,
respectively.









Management

NameAgePositionTimothy J. Wilmott55President and Chief Executive OfficerJay Snowden37Chief Operating OfficerSaul V. Reibstein65Senior Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerJohn V. Finamore55Senior Vice President-Regional OperationsCarl Sottosanti49Senior Vice President and General CounselWilliam J. Fair51Senior Vice President and Chief Development OfficerRobert S. Ippolito62Vice President, Secretary and Treasurer

Timothy J. Wilmott.Mr. Wilmott joined us in February 2008 as President and Chief Operating Officer and was named Chief Executive
Officer on
November 1, 2013. Previously, Mr. Wilmott served as Chief Operating Officer of Harrah's Entertainment, a position he held for approximately four years. In this position, he oversaw the
operations of all of Harrah's revenue-generating businesses, including 48 casinos, 38,000 hotel rooms and 300 restaurants. All Harrah's Division Presidents, Senior Vice Presidents of Brand Operations,
Marketing and Information Technology personnel reported to Mr. Wilmott in his capacity as Chief Operating Officer. Prior to his appointment to the position of Chief Operating Officer,
Mr. Wilmott served from 1997 to 2002 as Division President of Harrah's Eastern Division with responsibility for the operations of eight Harrah's properties.

Jay Snowden.Mr. Snowden joined us in October 2011 as Senior Vice President-Regional Operations and in January 2014 became our
Chief Operating
Officer. Mr. Snowden is responsible for overseeing all of our operating businesses, as well as human resources, marketing, and information technology. Previously, Mr. Snowden was
responsible for overseeing all facets of our facilities located in our East/West segment. Prior to joining us, Mr. Snowden was the Senior Vice President and General Manager of Caesar's and
Harrah's in Atlantic City, and prior to that, held various leadership positions with them in St. Louis, San Diego and Las Vegas.

Saul V. Reibstein.Mr. Reibstein joined us in December 2013 as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Previously,
Mr. Reibstein served as a member of the Company's Board of Directors since June 2011 and as Chairman of the Board's Audit Committee. For 11 years, Mr. Reibstein served as a
partner at BDO Seidman, LLP (now BDO USA, LLP), a professional services firm providing assurance, tax, financial advisory and consulting services to a wide range of publicly-traded and
privately-held companies. At BDO, he was the partner in charge of the Philadelphia office from June 1997 to December 2001 and Regional Business Line Leader from December 2001 until September 2004.
Since 2004, Mr. Reibstein has served as a member of the senior management team of CBIZ, Inc., a New York Stock Exchange-listed professional services company. During his tenure at CBIZ,
he held a number of positions including, most recently, Senior Managing Director with responsibility for the firm's New York practice since January 2012. He also oversaw the firm's business
development efforts and managed nine of the firm's business units within its Financial Services Group. In addition, since July 2010, he has served as a member of the Board of Directors of Vishay
Precision Group, Inc., a publicly traded company, where he is Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of both the Compensation and Nominating and Corporate Governance committees.

John V. Finamore.Mr. Finamore joined us in November 2002 as Senior Vice President-Regional Operations. In this position,
Mr. Finamore
is responsible for overseeing all facets of our facilities located in our Midwest segment. Prior to joining us, Mr. Finamore served as President of Missouri Operations for Ameristar
Casinos, Inc. from December of 2000 until February of 2002 and President of Midwest Operations for Station Casinos, Inc. from July 1998 until November 2000. Mr. Finamore has over
28 years of gaming industry and hotel management experience.









Carl Sottosanti.In February 2014, Mr. Sottosanti was appointed to the position of Senior Vice President and General Counsel.
Prior to this
appointment, Mr. Sottosanti served as Vice President, Deputy General Counsel since 2003. Before joining Penn, Mr. Sottosanti served for five years as General Counsel at publicly traded,
Sanchez Computer Associates, Inc. and had oversight of all legal matters, managed in-house and outside counsel, oversaw Securities and Exchange Commission compliance issues, and handled
intellectual property matters. From 1994 to 1998 as Assistant General Counsel for Salient 3 Communications, Inc. Mr. Sottosanti began his legal career in 1989 with the Philadelphia law
firm Schnader Harrison.

William J. Fair.In January 2014, Mr. Fair joined us as Senior Vice President and Chief Development Officer. Previously,
Mr. Fair
worked in development leadership positions for Universal Studios and Disney Development. Most recently, Mr. Fair was the President and Chief Executive Officer of the American Skiing Company,
where he had oversight of ten ski mountain resorts which included ski operations, nine hotels, condominium operations, food and beverage operations, retail and rental operations, real estate brokerage
and development.

Robert Ippolito.In July 2001, we appointed Mr. Ippolito to the position of Vice President, Secretary and Treasurer.
Mr. Ippolito has
served as our Secretary and Treasurer since April 1994 and served as our Chief Financial Officer from April 1994 until July 2001. Mr. Ippolito brings more than 24 years of gaming and
racing experience to the management team both as a manager at a major accounting firm and as an officer of companies in the racing business.

Governmental Regulations

The gaming and racing industries are highly regulated and we must maintain our licenses and pay gaming taxes to continue our
operations. Each of our facilities is subject to extensive regulation under the laws, rules and regulations of the jurisdiction where it is located. These laws, rules and regulations generally concern
the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners, managers, and persons with financial interests in the gaming operations. Violations of laws or regulations in one jurisdiction
could result in disciplinary action in other jurisdictions. A more detailed description of the regulations to which we are subject is contained in Exhibit 99.1 to this Annual Report on
Form 10-K, which is incorporated herein by reference.

Our
businesses are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations in addition to gaming regulations. These laws and regulations include, but are not limited to,
restrictions and conditions concerning alcoholic beverages, environmental matters, employees, health care, currency transactions, taxation, zoning and building codes, and marketing and advertising.
Such laws and regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted. Material changes, new laws or regulations, or material
differences in interpretations by courts or governmental authorities could adversely affect our operating results.

Employees and Labor Relations

As of December 31, 2013, we had 17,397 full- and part-time employees.

We
are required to have agreements with the horsemen at the majority of our racetracks to conduct our live racing and/or simulcasting activities. In addition, in order to operate gaming
machines and table games in West Virginia, we must maintain agreements with each of the Charles Town horsemen, pari-mutuel clerks and breeders.

At
Hollywood Casino at Charles Town Races, we have an agreement with the track's horse owners and trainers that expired on December 31, 2013 and has been extended on a
month-to-month basis while negotiations are in progress. Hollywood Casino at Charles Town Races also has an agreement with the breeders that expires on June 30, 2014. Additionally, the
pari-mutuel clerks at Charles Town









are
represented under a collective bargaining agreement with the West Virginia Union of Mutuel Clerks, which expired on December 31, 2010 and has been extended on a month-to-month basis while
negotiations are in process.

Our
agreement with the Pennsylvania Thoroughbred Horsemen at Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course expires on January 31, 2016. We had a collective bargaining agreement
with Local 137 of the Sports Arena Employees at Penn National Race Course with respect to on-track pari-mutuel clerks and admissions personnel which expired on December 31, 2011. In August
2012, Local 137 of the Sports Arena Employees announced that they entered into a "voluntary supervision" agreement with their international union, Laborers' International Union of North America
("LIUNA") Local 108. We also had an agreement in place with Local 137 of the Sports Arena Employees with respect to pari-mutuel clerks and admission personnel at our OTWs that expired on
August 31, 2013. In February 2014, a new agreement with LIUNA Local 108 for on-track and OTWs bargaining units was ratified for three years.

Our
agreement with the Maine Harness Horsemen Association at Bangor Raceway continues through the conclusion of the 2015 racing season.

We
have agreements with the Ohio Harness Horsemen Association at Raceway Park and the Ohio Horsemen's Protective and Benevolent Association at Beulah Park that expired on
December 31, 2013 but are still in effect until new agreements are negotiated.

Rosecroft
Raceway entered into agreements with the Cloverleaf Standardbred Owners Association ("CSOA") and Maryland Standardbred Breeder's Association ("MSBA") as of July 5, 2011.
CSOA's agreement has been extended through December 31, 2014, with extensions through December 31, 2016 at the sole discretion of Rosecroft Raceway. The MSBA agreement has been extended
through December 31, 2014. Additionally, Rosecroft Raceway has entered into agreements with the United Food and Commercial Workers Union ("UFCW") Local 27 and the Seafarers Entertainment and
Allied Trade Union ("SEATU") for certain bargaining positions at the racetrack. The UFCW Local 27 agreement expires on November 14, 2014 and the SEATU agreement expires on November 30,
2020.

Across
certain of our properties, SEATU represents approximately 1,600 of our employees under agreements that expire at various times between June 2014 and July 2021. For our Argosy
Casino Alton and Argosy Casino Riverside properties, the SEATU agreements expired in May 2013 and October 2013, respectively, and both have been extended on a monthly basis while negotiations are in
process. At Hollywood Casino Joliet, the Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees Union Local 1 represents approximately 210 employees under a collective bargaining agreement, which expires on
March 31, 2015. In addition, at some of our properties, the Security Police and Fire Professionals of America, the International Brotherhood of Electronic Workers Locals 176 and 649, the
Chicago and Midwest Regional Joint Board affiliated with Workers United, the LIUNA Public Serviced Employees Local
1290PE, and the United Industrial, Service, Transportation, Professional and Government Workers of North America represent certain of our employees under collective bargaining agreements that expire
at various times between May 2015 and September 2025. None of these particular unions represent more than 75 of our employees.

Available Information

For more information about us, visit our website at www.pngaming.com. The contents of our website are not part of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K. Our electronic filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") (including all annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and
current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to these reports), including the exhibits, are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we
electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the SEC.









