ITEM 1.    BUSINESS

Overview

We are a leading, diversified, multi-jurisdictional owner and manager of gaming and pari-mutuel properties. The Company was
incorporated in Pennsylvania in 1982 as PNRC Corp. and adopted its current name in 1994, when the Company became a public company. In 1997, we began our transition from a pari-mutuel
company to a diversified gaming company with the acquisition of the Charles Town property and the introduction of video lottery terminals in West Virginia. Since 1997, we have continued to expand our
gaming operations through strategic acquisitions (including the acquisitions of Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis and Boomtown Biloxi, CRC Holdings, Inc., the Bullwhackers properties,
Hollywood Casino Corporation, Argosy Gaming Company ("Argosy"), Black Gold Casino at Zia Park, and Sanford-Orlando Kennel Club), greenfield projects (such as at Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race
Course and Hollywood Slots Hotel and Raceway, and most recently Hollywood Casino Perryville, which opened on September 27, 2010 and is Maryland's first casino, as well as our proposed
facilities in Ohio and joint venture in Kansas) and property expansions (such as at Hollywood Casino at Charles Town Races and Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg). On July 1, 2010, we closed the
transaction to purchase Beulah Park in Grove City, Ohio and separately established a joint venture that owns and operates the Maryland Jockey Club.

In
September 2010, we announced that we had agreed to enter into a joint venture (subject to final approval by the Texas Racing Commission and the satisfaction of certain closing
conditions) that will own and operate the Sam Houston Race Park in Houston, Texas, the Valley Race Park in Harlingen, Texas, and a planned racetrack in Laredo, Texas. In addition, on October 8,
2010, we announced that we had purchased all of the outstanding bank and subordinated debt of The M Resorts LLC ("M Resort"), for $230.5 million, which we intend to convert
into ownership of the M Resort.

We
currently own, manage or have ownership interests in twenty-three facilities in the following sixteen jurisdictions: Colorado, Florida, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Louisiana, Maine,
Maryland, Mississippi, Missouri, New Jersey, New Mexico, Ohio, Pennsylvania, West Virginia, and Ontario.

We
believe that our portfolio of assets provides us with a diversified cash flow from operations. We continue to expand our gaming operations through the implementation and execution of
a disciplined capital expenditure program at our existing properties, the pursuit of strategic acquisitions, and the development of new gaming properties, particularly in attractive regional markets.
Current capital projects are ongoing at several of our new and existing properties, including our facilities under construction in Ohio and our joint venture in Kansas.

In
this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the terms "we," "us," "our," the "Company" and "Penn National" refer to Penn National Gaming, Inc. and subsidiaries, unless
the context indicates otherwise.

Merger Announcement and Termination

On June 15, 2007, we announced that we had entered into a merger agreement that, at the effective time of the transactions
contemplated thereby, would have resulted in our shareholders receiving $67.00 per share. Specifically, we, PNG Acquisition Company Inc. ("Parent") and PNG Merger Sub Inc., a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Parent ("Merger Sub"), announced that we had entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of June 15, 2007 (the "Merger Agreement"), that provided, among
other things, for Merger Sub to be merged with and into us, as a result of which we would have continued as the surviving corporation and would have become a wholly-owned subsidiary of Parent. Parent
is indirectly owned by certain funds managed by affiliates of Fortress Investment Group LLC ("Fortress") and Centerbridge Partners, L.P. ("Centerbridge").









On
July 3, 2008, we entered into an agreement with certain affiliates of Fortress and Centerbridge, terminating the Merger Agreement. In connection with the termination of the
Merger Agreement, we agreed to receive a total of $1.475 billion, consisting of a nonrefundable $225 million cash termination fee and a $1.25 billion, zero coupon, preferred
equity investment (the "Investment"). On October 30, 2008, we closed the sale of the Investment and issued 12,500 shares of Series B Redeemable Preferred Stock (the "Preferred Stock").
During the year ended December 31, 2010, we repurchased 225 shares of Preferred Stock for $11.2 million.

Properties

The following table summarizes certain features of our owned properties and our managed property that are currently in operations as of
December 31, 2010:





LocationType of FacilityApprox.GamingSquareFootageGamingMachinesTableGames(1)HotelRooms

Owned Properties:

Hollywood Casino at Charles Town RacesCharles Town, WVLand-based gaming/Thoroughbred racing209,5084,49685153

Hollywood Casino LawrenceburgLawrenceburg, INDockside gaming150,0003,24089295

Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race CourseGrantville, PALand-based gaming/Thoroughbred racing99,1942,48742—

Hollywood Casino AuroraAurora, ILDockside gaming53,0001,17221—

Hollywood Casino JolietJoliet, ILDockside gaming50,0001,12523100

Argosy Casino RiversideRiverside, MODockside gaming56,4001,94739258

Hollywood Casino Baton RougeBaton Rouge, LADockside gaming28,0001,17523—

Argosy Casino AltonAlton, ILDockside gaming23,0001,08118—

Hollywood Casino TunicaTunica, MSDockside gaming54,0001,22926494

Hollywood Casino Bay St. LouisBay St. Louis, MSLand-based gaming57,0001,23222291

Argosy Casino Sioux CitySioux City, IADockside gaming20,50071219—

Boomtown BiloxiBiloxi, MSDockside gaming51,6651,18218—

Hollywood Slots Hotel and RacewayBangor, MELand-based gaming/Harness racing30,0001,000—152

BullwhackersBlack Hawk, COLand-based gaming10,425310——

Black Gold Casino at Zia ParkHobbs, NMLand-based gaming/Thoroughbred racing18,460750——

Hollywood Casino PerryvillePerryville, MDLand-based gaming34,3291,500——

Raceway ParkToledo, OHHarness racing————

Freehold Raceway(2)Freehold, NJHarness racing————

Sanford-Orlando Kennel ClubLongwood, FLGreyhound racing————

Beulah ParkGrove City, OHThoroughbred racing————

Pimlico Race Course(3)Baltimore, MDThoroughbred racing————

Laurel Park(3)Laurel, MDThoroughbred racing————

Managed Property:

Casino RamaOrillia, OntarioLand-based gaming93,0002,427108289



Total1,038,48127,0655332,032



(1)Excludes
poker tables.(2)Pursuant
to a joint venture with Greenwood Limited Jersey, Inc., a subsidiary of Greenwood Racing, Inc.(3)Pursuant
to a joint venture with MI Developments, Inc.











Owned Properties

Hollywood Casino at Charles Town Races

Hollywood Casino at Charles Town Races is located within approximately a one-hour drive of the Baltimore, Maryland and
Washington, D.C. markets. Hollywood Casino at Charles Town Races features 209,508 square feet of gaming space with 4,496 gaming
machines and a 153-room hotel, which opened to the public on September 5, 2008. In July 2010, we added 85 table games and 27 poker tables following voter approval of
table games in the December 5, 2009 special election. The complex also features live thoroughbred racing at a refurbished3/4-mile all-weather lighted
thoroughbred racetrack with a 3,000-seat grandstand, parking for 6,048 vehicles and simulcast wagering and dining. In addition, a high-end steakhouse was completed in the
fourth quarter of 2010 and a sports bar and entertainment lounge is expected to be completed in the second quarter of 2011.

Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg

Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg is located on the Ohio River in Lawrenceburg, Indiana, approximately 15 miles west of Cincinnati and is
currently the closest casino to the Cincinnati metropolitan area, its principal target market. In late June 2009, we opened a new casino riverboat at Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg, replacing the
vessel at Argosy Casino Lawrenceburg. The new Hollywood-themed casino riverboat has 150,000 square feet of gaming space on two levels with 3,240 slot machines, 89 table games and
41 poker tables, a restaurant, buffet and four bars. Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg also includes a 295-room hotel. Meeting space for Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg partially opened
in December 2009 and was fully completed in February 2010. In addition, a new steakhouse/lounge was opened in April 2010 and a new mid-priced restaurant opened in July 2010.

Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course

Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course is located in Grantville, Pennsylvania, which is 15 miles northeast of Harrisburg.
Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course, which opened on February 12, 2008, is a 365,000 square foot facility with 2,487 slot machines. In July 2010, we added 40 table games
and 12 poker tables following legislation passed in January 2010 permitting the operation of table games by existing licensees. As of December 31, 2010, we had increased the amount to 42
table games and 16 poker tables. The facility also includes a food court, entertainment bar and lounge, trackside dining room, a sports bar, a buffet and high-end steakhouse, a retail
store, as well as a simulcast facility and viewing area for live racing. The facility has ample parking, including a five-story self parking garage, with capacity for approximately 2,200
cars and approximately 1,500 surface parking spaces for self and valet parking. The property includes a one-mile all-weather lighted thoroughbred racetrack and a7/8-mile turf track. The property also includes approximately 400 acres that are available for future expansion or development.

Hollywood Casino Aurora

Hollywood Casino Aurora, part of the Chicagoland market, is located in Aurora, Illinois, the second largest city in Illinois,
approximately 35 miles west of Chicago. This single-level dockside casino provides 53,000 square feet of gaming space with 1,172 slot machines, 21 gaming tables and 6 poker tables. The
facility features an upscale lounge, a steakhouse with a private dining room, a VIP lounge for premium players, a casino bar with video poker, a buffet, and a fast food outlet. Hollywood Casino Aurora
also a surface parking lot, two parking garages with approximately 1,500 parking spaces, and a gift shop.









Hollywood Casino Joliet

Hollywood Casino Joliet, part of the Chicagoland market, is located on the Des Plaines River in Joliet, Illinois, approximately
40 miles southwest of Chicago. This barge-based casino provides 50,000 square feet of gaming space on two levels with 1,125 slot machines, 23 table games and 5 poker tables.

On
March 20, 2009, the property, which was undergoing a $55 million renovation, was closed following a fire that started in the land-based pavilion at the
facility. All customers and employees were successfully evacuated, and the fire was contained on the land-side of the property before it could spread to the adjacent casino barge. On
June 25, 2009, the casino barge was reopened with temporary land-based facilities, and we began construction of a new land-based pavilion. The first phase of the new
permanent land-based pavilion was opened to the public on December 22, 2010, including a steakhouse, buffet and gift shop. The final phase of the new pavilion, including a sports
bar, is expected to be completed by the first quarter of 2011.

The
complex also includes a 100-room hotel, surface parking areas with approximately 1,500 spaces and an 80-space recreational vehicle park. In addition,
construction on a new 1,100 space parking garage was completed in February 2010.

Argosy Casino Riverside

Argosy Casino Riverside is located on the Missouri River approximately five miles from downtown Kansas City in Riverside, Missouri. The
casino primarily attracts customers who reside in the northern and western regions of the Kansas City metropolitan area. The casino features 56,400 square feet of gaming space with 1,947 slot machines
and 39 table games.

This
Mediterranean-themed casino and hotel features an innovative "floating" casino floor that provides a seamless transition between the casino and land-based support areas,
including a nine-story, 258-room hotel and spa, an entertainment facility featuring 6 food and beverage areas, including a buffet, steakhouse, deli, coffee bar, VIP
lounge and sports/entertainment lounge and 19,000 square feet of banquet/conference facilities. Argosy Casino Riverside currently has parking for approximately 3,000 vehicles, including a 1,250 space
parking garage.

Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge

Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge is a dockside riverboat gaming facility operating in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge
features a riverboat casino reminiscent of a nineteenth century Mississippi River paddlewheel steamboat. The riverboat features approximately 28,000 square feet of gaming space with 1,175 gaming
machines and 23 table games.

The
facility also includes a two-story, 58,000 square foot dockside building featuring a variety of amenities, including a steakhouse, a 268-seat buffet, a
premium players' lounge, a nightclub that doubles as a players' event area, a lobby bar, a public atrium, two meeting rooms, 1,548 parking spaces, a players' club booth and a gift shop.

In
December 2007, we agreed to acquire 3.8 acres of adjacent land and to pay for half of the construction costs for a railroad underpass with the seller of the land. The underpass
will provide unimpeded access to the casino property and to property owned by the seller for future development. Construction on the underpass started in June 2009 and we anticipate that it will be
completed in early 2011.

Argosy Casino Alton

Argosy Casino Alton is located on the Mississippi River in Alton, Illinois, approximately 20 miles northeast of downtown
St. Louis. The target customers of Argosy Casino Alton are drawn largely from











the
northern and eastern regions of the greater St. Louis metropolitan area, as well as portions of central and southern Illinois. Argosy Casino Alton is a three-deck gaming
facility featuring 23,000 square feet of gaming space with 1,081 slot machines and 18 table games. Argosy Casino Alton includes an entertainment pavilion and features a 124-seat buffet, a
restaurant and a 400-seat main showroom. The facility also includes surface parking areas with 1,341 spaces.

Hollywood Casino Tunica

Hollywood Casino Tunica is located in Tunica, Mississippi. Tunica County is the closest resort gaming jurisdiction to, and is easily
accessible from, the Memphis, Tennessee metropolitan area. The Tunica market has become a regional destination resort, attracting customers from surrounding markets such as Nashville, Tennessee,
Atlanta, Georgia, St. Louis, Missouri, Little Rock, Arkansas, and Tulsa, Oklahoma. This single-level casino features 54,000 square feet of gaming space with 1,229 slot machines, 26 table
games and 6 poker tables.

Hollywood
Casino Tunica's 494-room hotel and 123-space recreational vehicle park provide overnight accommodations for its patrons. Entertainment amenities include
a steakhouse, a buffet, a 1950's-style diner, an entertainment lounge, a premium players' club, a themed bar facility, a non-smoking slot room, an indoor pool and showroom as well as
banquet and meeting facilities. There is also an 18-hole championship golf course adjacent to the facility that is owned and operated through a joint venture of three gaming companies. In
addition, Hollywood Casino Tunica offers surface parking with 1,635 spaces.

Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis

Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis is located in Bay St. Louis, Mississippi. The casino features 57,000 square feet of gaming
space with 1,232 slot machines, 22 table games, and 6 poker tables.

The
waterfront Hollywood Hotel features 291 rooms and a 10,000 square foot ballroom, including nine separate meeting rooms offering more than 14,000 square feet of meeting space.
Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis offers live concerts and various entertainment on weekends in the ballroom. The property also features The Bridges golf course, an 18-hole
championship golf course. Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis has various dining facilities including Bogarts Steakhouse, a buffet and the 24-hour Celebrity Grill and The Bridges
Clubhouse Grill. Other amenities include a recreational vehicle park with 100 sites and gift shop.

Argosy Casino Sioux City

Argosy Casino Sioux City is located on the Missouri River in downtown Sioux City, Iowa. The riverboat features 20,500 square feet of
gaming space with 712 slot machines, 19 table games and 3 poker tables. The casino is complemented by adjacent barge facilities featuring dining facilities, meeting space, and 524
parking spaces.

Boomtown Biloxi

Boomtown Biloxi is located in Biloxi, Mississippi. Boomtown Biloxi offers 51,665 square feet of gaming space with 1,182 slot machines,
18 table games and 5 poker tables. It features a locally acclaimed buffet and the Grill (a 24-hour deli and bakery), and a new steakhouse and VIP lounge which opened in the
fourth quarter of 2009. Boomtown Biloxi also has 1,450 surface parking spaces.

Hollywood Slots Hotel and Raceway

Hollywood Slots Hotel and Raceway is located in Bangor, Maine. Its amenities include 30,000 square feet of gaming space with 1,000 slot
machines, a 152-room hotel, with 5,119 square feet of











meeting
and pre-function space, two eateries, a buffet and a snack bar, a small entertainment stage, and a four-story parking garage with 1,500 spaces. Bangor Raceway, which is
adjacent to the property, is located at historic Bass Park and includes a one-half mile track and grandstand to seat 3,500 patrons.

Bullwhackers

The Bullwhackers casino, which is located in Black Hawk, Colorado, includes 10,425 square feet of gaming space with 310 slot
machines and offers a cafe. In December 2010, we terminated the lease for the Bullpen Casino property which led to a reduction in gaming square footage and number of gaming devices from the prior
year; however we believe this will contribute to improved financial performance going forward. The property also includes a 344-car surface parking area. We also own and operate a gas
station/convenience store located approximately 7 miles east of the Bullwhackers casino on Highway 119.

Black Gold Casino at Zia Park

Black Gold Casino at Zia Park is located in Hobbs, New Mexico and includes the Black Gold Casino and the adjoining Zia Park Racetrack.
Black Gold Casino at Zia Park includes 18,460 square feet of gaming space with 750 slot machines and operates three restaurants consisting of the Black Gold Buffet, the Black Gold Steakhouse,
and the StateLine Showroom, a bar and grill with live entertainment. Year-round banquet services are available in the Turf Club, which also offers food and beverage services during the
live racing season. The property has a one-mile oval quarter/thoroughbred racetrack, with live racing from September to December, and a year-round simulcast parlor.

Hollywood Casino Perryville

Hollywood Casino Perryville was opened to the public on September 27, 2010 and is located directly off Interstate 95 in Cecil
County, Maryland just 30 minutes northeast of Baltimore and an hour and a quarter from Washington, D.C. Hollywood Casino Perryville is a Hollywood-themed facility which offers 34,329 square
feet of gaming space with 1,500 slot machines. The facility offers various food and beverage options, including a buffet and Extras Grill, a gift shop and 1,600 parking spaces with valet and
self-parking.

Raceway Park

Raceway Park is a 58,250 square foot facility with a5/8-mile harness race track located in Toledo, Ohio.
The facility also features simulcast wagering and has theatre-style seating capacity for 1,977 and surface parking for 3,000 vehicles.

Freehold Raceway

Through our joint venture with Pennwood Racing, Inc. ("Pennwood"), we own 50% of Freehold Raceway, located in Freehold, New
Jersey. The property features a half-mile oval harness track and a 150,000 square foot grandstand.

Sanford-Orlando Kennel Club

Sanford-Orlando Kennel Club is a1/4-mile greyhound facility located in Longwood, Florida. The facility has
capacity for 6,500 patrons, with seating for 4,000 and surface parking for 2,500 vehicles. The facility conducts year-round greyhound racing and horse racing simulcasts.









Beulah Park

On July 1, 2010, we closed our acquisition of Beulah Park in Grove City, Ohio from Heartland Jockey Club Ltd. Located on
approximately 210 acres just outside of Columbus, Ohio, Beulah Park is a thoroughbred racing facility that features live thoroughbred racing from October to May as well as simulcast wagering from a
number of nationwide tracks. Beulah Park includes a grandstand, outdoor paddock, a clubhouse facility and numerous food and dining options.

Pimlico Race Course and Laurel Park

Through our joint venture to own and operate the Maryland Jockey Club, which closed on July 1, 2010, we own 49% of Pimlico Race
Course ("Pimlico") and Laurel Park, located in Baltimore, Maryland and Laurel, Maryland, respectively. Pimlico features a one-mile oval track, a7/8-mile turf
course and seating for approximately 15,000 spectators. Laurel Park, the sister track to Pimlico, features a 11/8-mile oval track and a one mile turf course with seating for
approximately 5,000 spectators. Pimlico is the annual host of the Preakness® Stakes, the second leg in thoroughbred racing's Triple Crown.

Off-track Wagering Facilities

Our off-track wagering facilities ("OTWs") and racetracks provide areas for viewing import simulcast races of thoroughbred
and harness horse racing, televised sporting events, placing pari-mutuel wagers and dining. We operate four of the eighteen OTWs currently in operation in Pennsylvania. In addition,
through our joint venture with Pennwood, we own 50% of a leased OTW in Toms River, New Jersey.

Account Wagering/Internet Wagering

In 1983, we pioneered Telebet®, the complete account wagering operation for Penn National Race Course. The platform offers
account wagering on more than 80 United States ("U.S.") and Canadian racetracks, and currently has more than 6,600 active account betting customers from the 13 U.S. states that permit account
wagering as well as the U.S. Virgin Islands.

We
have also developed strategic relationships to further our wagering activities. In August 1999, we entered into an agreement with eBet Limited, an Internet wagering operation in
Australia, to license their eBetUSA.com technology in the U.S. Through eBetUSA.com, Inc., our wholly-owned subsidiary, we use the eBetUSA.com technology to permit on-line
pari-mutuel horseracing wagering over the internet in selected jurisdictions with the approval of the Pennsylvania State Horse Racing Commission and applicable federal and state laws,
rules and regulations, as permitted. We currently accept wagers from residents of 13 U.S. states and the U.S. Virgin Islands.

Managed Gaming Property

Casino Rama

Through CHC Casinos Canada Limited ("CHC Casinos"), our indirectly wholly-owned subsidiary, we manage Casino Rama, a full service
gaming and entertainment facility, on behalf of the Ontario Lottery and Gaming Corporation ("OLGC"), an agency of the Province of Ontario. Casino Rama is located on the lands of the Rama First Nation,
approximately 90 miles north of Toronto. The property has approximately 93,000 square feet of gaming space with 2,427 gaming machines, 108 table games and 15 poker tables. In addition, the
property includes a 5,000-seat entertainment facility, a 289-room hotel and 3,170 surface parking spaces.

The
Development and Operating Agreement (the "Agreement"), which we refer to as the management service contract for Casino Rama, sets out the duties, rights and obligations of CHC
Casinos and our indirectly wholly-owned subsidiary, CRC Holdings, Inc. The compensation under the Agreement is a
base fee equal to 2.0% of gross revenues of the casino and an incentive fee equal to 5.0% of the casino's net operating profit.









The Agreement terminates on July 31, 2011, and the OLGC has the option to extend the term of the Agreement for two successive periods of five years each,
commencing on August 1, 2011. However, on October 5, 2010, the OLGC issued a Request for Pre-Qualification inviting gaming operators to bid on a new five year term for
management of the Casino Rama facility, which included a cap on management fees of $5 million per year. While we intend to participate in the bid process, there can be no assurance that the
OLGC will select us to manage the property beyond August 1, 2011. The OLGC expects to make its decision in 2011, with the new term beginning in early 2012. We are in the process of negotiating
a short-term extension to our existing Agreement with the OLGC to provide for the continued management of the facility during the interim period.

Noncontrolling Interests

In November 2009, we entered into a Funding and Option Agreement with Lakes Entertainment, Inc. ("Lakes"), permitting Lakes to
invest up to a 10% equity interest in each of our proposed facilities in Columbus and Toledo, Ohio.

During
the year ended December 31, 2010, Lakes made no contribution to us towards the proposed facilities, and its portion of the net loss for the proposed facilities was
$2.2 million. During the year
ended December 31, 2009, Lakes contributed $1.9 million to us towards the proposed facilities, and its portion of the net loss for the proposed facilities was $2.5 million.

On
July 16, 2010, we paid $25 million to Lakes to terminate the agreement. In exchange for this payment, Lakes agreed to relinquish all of its rights, title and interests
held in connection with these two projects.

Trademarks

We own a number of trademarks registered with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office ("U.S. PTO"), including but not limited to,
"Telebet," "The World Series of Handicapping," and "Players' Choice." We also have a number of trademark applications pending with the U.S. PTO.

BTN, Inc.,
our wholly-owned subsidiary, entered into a License Agreement with Boomtown, Inc., dated August 8, 2000 pursuant to which it uses "Boomtown" and other
trademarks.

As
a result of our acquisitions of Hollywood Casino Corporation and Argosy, we own the service marks "Hollywood Casino" and "Argosy" which are registered with the U.S. PTO. We believe
that our rights to the "Hollywood Casino" and "Argosy" service marks are well established and have competitive value to the Hollywood Casino and Argosy properties. We also acquired other trademarks
used by the Hollywood Casino and Argosy facilities and their related services. These marks are either registered or are the subject of pending applications with the U.S. PTO.

Competition

Gaming Operations

The gaming industry is characterized by a high degree of competition among a large number of participants, including riverboat casinos,
dockside casinos, land-based casinos, video lottery and poker machines not located in casinos, Native American gaming, emerging varieties of Internet gaming and other forms of gaming in
the U.S. In a broader sense, our gaming operations face competition from all manner of leisure and entertainment activities, including: shopping; high school, collegiate and professional athletic
events; television and movies; concerts and travel. Legalized gaming is currently permitted in various forms throughout the U.S., in several Canadian provinces and on various lands taken into trust
for the benefit of certain Native Americans in the U.S. and Canada. Other jurisdictions, including states adjacent to states in which we currently have facilities (such as in Kansas and Ohio), have
legalized, and are likely to implement gaming in the near future. In addition,











established
gaming jurisdictions could award additional gaming licenses or permit the expansion or relocation of existing gaming operations. New, relocated or expanded operations by other persons will
increase competition for our gaming operations and could have a material adverse impact on us.

Charles Town, West Virginia.

Lawrenceburg, Indiana.

Grantville, Pennsylvania.Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course is located in Grantville, Pennsylvania, which is just outside
Harrisburg. The
closest competition to Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course is currently over 60 miles away. The Pennsylvania Race Horse Development and Gaming Act, which was signed in 2004,
authorized up to 5,000 slot machines at each of seven harness/thoroughbred racetracks and five stand-alone slot facilities, as well as 500 slot machines at each of two authorized resort
facilities (category 3 licenses). Currently, slot machines are authorized and operating at six of the seven existing racetrack facilities, as well as four stand-alone facilities. In January
2010, the Pennsylvania legislature passed legislation permitting table games for gaming licensees. Table games became operational at all of the gaming licensees, including Hollywood Casino at Penn
National Race











Course,
in July 2010. The new legislation also increased the number of category 3 licenses from two to three. A category 3 license allows the licensed facility to operate up to
500 slot machines; however, a category 3 licensed facility holding a table game operation certificate will be entitled to operate 600 slot machines and 50 table games. One
category 3 license application has been granted for a site in Valley Forge, Pennsylvania, but no license has been issued, pending resolution of a challenge before the Supreme Court of
Pennsylvania. There are also proposed sites in each of the Harrisburg, Gettysburg, Pittsburgh and Poconos areas for the second category 3 license. A decision on the second category 3
license still awaits. Under the new legislation, the third category 3 license will be available for applicants in 2017. If certain of these sites or other currently open Pennsylvania licenses
begin slot operations in a proximate location, it may have a negative impact on our operations at Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course.

In
2008, the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania passed legislation which authorized a partial ban on smoking in casino facilities, including a limit on the amount of casino floor space that
could be designated as "smoking." Early in 2009, Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course was able to expand smoking sections to 50% of its casino floor. The legislation does not allow any
further expansion of smoking areas.

Chicagoland.Hollywood Casino Aurora and Hollywood Casino Joliet are part of the Chicagoland market that includes eight properties in
the Chicago
suburbs in both Illinois and northern Indiana. Due to significantly higher gaming taxes imposed on Illinois riverboats, the Indiana riverboats have been able to spend greater amounts on marketing and
other amenities, which has significantly increased their ability to compete with the Illinois riverboats. Any increase in gaming taxes or admission fees imposed on Illinois riverboats could have an
adverse impact on the financial results of our Chicagoland casinos. Effective January 1, 2008, casinos in Illinois became smoke-free due to state legislation and smoking areas are
required to be outside of the facility. The casinos in Indiana continue to have smoking permitted in all areas, providing them with a significant competitive advantage.

New
competition in Illinois is currently limited by state legislation. The Illinois Riverboat Gambling Act and the regulations promulgated by the Illinois Gaming Board under the
Riverboat Gambling Act authorize only 10 owner licenses for riverboat gaming operations in Illinois and permit a maximum of 1,200 gaming positions at any time for each of the 10 licensed
sites. All authorized owners' licenses have now been granted, with the final license, which was dormant for several years, being issued in December 2008. The new approximately $445 million
casino is expected to open in the second half of 2011 in Des Plaines, Illinois. We will face additional competition as the facility will be located in the suburban area northwest of Chicago however,
the 3% tax surcharge that our casinos in the Chicagoland market pay to subsidize local racing horse interests will no longer be incurred. In addition, in July 2009, the Governor of Illinois signed a
bill providing for the legalization of video poker in bars. In January 2011, the Illinois Appellate Court issued an opinion effectively prohibiting slots at taverns. We expect this decision to be
appealed and/or clarifying legislative action to be taken. In any event, it appears implementation of the Illinois Video Gaming Act will be delayed as a result of the Illinois Appellate Court's
ruling.

Riverside, Missouri.Argosy Casino Riverside currently faces competition from three other casinos in its market. In November 2008,
legislation was
enacted in Missouri that increased gaming taxes, while removing the loss limit in the state. The Kansas legislature has approved the expansion of casino gaming in its state, and in February 2010,
Kansas Entertainment, LLC, a joint venture of affiliates of International Speedway Corporation ("International Speedway") and us, received the final approval under the Kansas Expanded Lottery
Act, along with its gaming license from the Kansas Racing and Gaming Commission, to proceed with the development of an approximately $411 million Hollywood-themed destination facility
overlooking Turn 2 at Kansas Speedway, which is located approximately 17 miles from Argosy Casino Riverside. Kansas Entertainment, LLC began construction of the facility in the second quarter
of 2010 and has a planned opening in the first half of 2012. The commencement of











casino
gaming in Kansas, including our joint venture with International Speedway, will have an adverse effect on the financial results of Argosy Casino Riverside.

Baton Rouge, Louisiana.The principal competitor to Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge is Tropicana's Belle of Baton Rouge, which is
approximately 2 miles
away. We also face competition from eleven casinos on the Mississippi Gulf Coast, which is approximately 120 miles east of Baton Rouge; many of these casinos are destination resorts that attract
customers from the Baton Rouge area. In addition, Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge faces competition from casinos in the New Orleans area, which is approximately 75 miles from Baton Rouge, two
Native American casinos that are approximately 45 miles southwest and approximately 65 miles northwest of Baton Rouge, and a racetrack located approximately 55 miles from Baton
Rouge. We also face competition from video poker machines located in truck stops, restaurants, bars and OTWs located in certain surrounding parishes. In addition, another gaming operator received
approval from the Louisiana Gaming Control Board for a third riverboat casino in Baton Rouge that was subject to a local option referendum subsequently approved by East Baton Rouge Parish voters on
February 9, 2008. Construction on the approximately $357 million riverboat casino and hotel has begun with a planned opening in late 2011. The opening of this riverboat casino will have
an adverse effect on the financial results of Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge.

Alton, Illinois.Argosy Casino Alton faces competition from five other riverboat casinos currently operating in the St. Louis,
Missouri area.
Casinos in Illinois are smoke-free due to state legislation while casinos in Missouri continue to have smoking permitted in all gaming areas, providing them with a significant competitive
advantage. Should the Illinois legislature enact gaming-expansion legislation or increase admission or gaming taxes, Argosy Casino Alton's financial results could be adversely affected.

Tunica County, Mississippi.Hollywood Casino Tunica faces intense competition from nine other casinos operating in north Tunica County
and Coahoma
County. The Tunica County market is segregated into two casino clusters, Casino Center and Casino Strip, where Hollywood Casino Tunica is located, as well as three stand-alone properties. In addition,
we compete with another casino located approximately 25 miles south of the Casino Strip cluster in Coahoma County. The close proximity of the casinos in Tunica County has contributed to the
competition between casinos because it allows consumers to visit a variety of casinos in a short period of time. The Mississippi Gaming Control Act does not limit the number of licenses that may be
granted. Any significant increase in new competition in or around Tunica County could negatively impact the operations of Hollywood Casino Tunica.

Hollywood
Casino Tunica may eventually face competition from the opening of gaming casinos closer to Memphis, such as in DeSoto County, Mississippi, which is the only county between
Tunica County and the Tennessee border. DeSoto County has defeated gaming proposals on three separate occasions, the last being in November 1996. In November 2006, Southland Park Gaming &
Racing, formerly Southland Greyhound Park, in West Memphis, Arkansas, opened a $40 million gaming facility with electronic "games of skill." The facility is located across the Mississippi River
from Memphis. Casino gaming is not currently legalized in Tennessee; however, the legalization of gaming in Tennessee could have an adverse impact on Hollywood Casino Tunica.

Mississippi Gulf Coast.As of December 31, 2010, eleven casinos operated in this region (eight in Biloxi, including our Boomtown
casino, one
in the Gulfport, and two in Bay St. Louis) including our Bay St. Louis property. Prior to Hurricane Katrina, our Bay St. Louis property was the only casino in the Bay
St. Louis market, whereas there are now two casinos in the Bay St. Louis market. In addition, in the Bay St. Louis market, there are various proposals for casinos in development,
as well as expansions at existing properties, that may take place in the next few years, though none that are significant are anticipated to be completed in 2011.









During
the 2005 special session of the Mississippi legislature, a bill to allow Gulf Coast casinos to rebuild on land was approved and signed by the Governor of Mississippi. In addition,
the Mississippi Gaming Control Act does not limit the number of licenses that may be granted and there are a number of additional sites located in the Gulf Coast region that are in various stages of
development. Any significant increase in the competition in the region could negatively impact our existing operations.

Sioux City, Iowa.Argosy Casino Sioux City competes primarily with two land-based Native American casinos that are not required to
report
gaming revenues and other operating statistics, therefore market comparisons cannot be made. We also compete with certain providers and operators of video gaming in the neighboring state of South
Dakota. Additionally, to a lesser extent, we compete with slot machines at a pari-mutuel racetrack in Council Bluffs, Iowa, and with two riverboat casinos in the Council Bluffs/Omaha,
Nebraska market, approximately 90 miles south of Sioux City. In May 2010, the Iowa Racing and Gaming Commission approved the granting of a gaming license to Lyon County, Iowa which is approximately
90 miles north of Sioux City, Iowa. Construction on an approximately $120 million casino and hotel has begun with a planned opening in the second half of 2011. This new facility will
have an adverse impact on Argosy Casino Sioux City. Additionally, an increase in the gaming tax rate has been recently been proposed for all casinos operating in Iowa. This could negatively impact our
ability to compete against our competitors outside of the state.

Bangor, Maine.Hollywood Slots Hotel and Raceway is the only facility with slot machines in the state of Maine. The closest competitors
offering slot
machines are Foxwoods and Mohegan Sun in Connecticut, Newport Grand Casino in Rhode Island and Horizon's Edge casino cruise ship operating in Lynn, Massachusetts, all approximately 300 miles
away. In November 2010, voters approved a referendum for a proposed approximately $165 million resort casino, which will be allowed to offer both table games and slot machines, in the western
Maine town of Oxford which is approximately 90 miles away. The opening of this resort casino may have an adverse effect on our existing operations at Hollywood Slots Hotel and Raceway; however,
it is possible that in connection with the opening of the Oxford casino, Hollywood Slots Hotel and Raceway will be permitted to offer table games.

Black Hawk, Colorado.The Black Hawk gaming market is characterized by intense competition. The competitive factors in the market are
location,
availability and convenience of parking, number of slot machines and gaming tables, promotional incentives, types and pricing of non-gaming amenities including hotel rooms, name
recognition and overall atmosphere. There are currently seventeen gaming facilities in the Black Hawk market and seven gaming facilities in nearby Central City. Our Bullwhackers property competes in
this market.

Hobbs, New Mexico.The closest competitors to Black Gold Casino at Zia Park are located in New Mexico, and are approximately 190 and
250 miles
from Hobbs. In New Mexico, the Governor signed a new compact with the tribal casinos limiting the future expansion of gaming facilities in the state. Hobbs is located very close to the Texas border,
and the political developments in Texas are monitored closely. Currently, there is no legalized gaming in Texas; however, legislators are currently considering gaming expansion proposals. However, if
gaming is approved in Texas, we may benefit through our joint venture, which is pending regulatory approval, to own and operate the Sam Houston Race Park in Houston, Texas, the Valley Race Park in
Harlingen, Texas and a planned racetrack in Laredo, Texas. If gaming is legalized in Texas, it could impact Black Gold Casino at Zia Park.

Perryville, Maryland.In November 2008, the citizens of Maryland approved a referendum to allow up to 15,000 slot machines at five
locations
throughout the state. These locations included a facility in each of Cecil, Allegany, Anne Arundel, Baltimore City and Worchester Counties. Applications for each of the gaming zones were submitted in
February 2009. Hollywood Casino Perryville in Cecil County opened to the public on September 27, 2010. This was the only Maryland facility operational in 2010. In January 2011, the Worchester
County location opened at Ocean Downs Racetrack which offers 750 slot machines. Hollywood Casino Perryville faced competition from Delaware racinos at Delaware











Park
and Dover Downs, as well as from a casino in Chester, Pennsylvania during 2010. All three competitors are within 50 miles of our facility and are able to offer table games whereby our Perryville
facility is only permitted to offer slot machines. As additional facilities are opened in Maryland and/or Pennsylvania, the results of Hollywood Casino Perryville could be negatively impacted.

Orillia, Ontario.Casino Rama faces competition in Ontario from three other commercial casinos, and several charity casinos and
racetracks with
gaming machines in the province. All of the casinos (including Casino Rama) and gaming machine facilities are operated by or on behalf of the Ontario Lottery and Gaming Corporation, an agency of the
Province of Ontario. There are also two commercial casinos located in Niagara Falls, Ontario, 80 miles southwest of Toronto.

On
October 5, 2010, the OLGC issued a Request for Pre-Qualification inviting gaming operators to bid on a new five year term for management of the Casino Rama
facility, that included a cap on management fees of $5 million per year. We intend to participate in the bidding process. The OLGC expects to make its decision in 2011, with the new term
beginning in early 2012.

Racing Operations

Our racing operations face significant competition for wagering dollars from other racetracks and OTWs, some of which also offer other
forms of gaming, as well as other gaming venues such as casinos. Additionally, for a number of years, there has been a general decline in the number of people attending and wagering on live horse
races at North American racetracks due to a number of factors, including increased competition from other wagering and entertainment alternatives as discussed above and unwillingness of customers to
travel a significant distance to racetracks. Our account wagering operations compete with other providers of such services throughout the country. We also may face competition in the future from new
OTWs, new racetracks or new providers of account wagering. From time to time, states consider legislation to permit other forms of gaming. If additional gaming opportunities become available near our
racing operations, such gaming
opportunities could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

U.S. and Foreign Revenues

Our net revenues in the U.S. for 2010, 2009 and 2008 were approximately $2,443.9 million, $2,354.5 million and
$2,406.4 million, respectively. Our revenues from operations in Canada for 2010, 2009 and 2008 were approximately $15.2 million, $14.8 million and $16.7 million,
respectively.

Segments

In accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification 280, "Segment Reporting," we view each
property as an operating segment, and aggregate all of our properties into one reportable segment, as we believe that they are economically similar, offer similar types of products and services, cater
to the same types of customers, and are similarly regulated.









Management

NameAgePositionPeter M. Carlino64Chief Executive OfficerTimothy J. Wilmott52President and Chief Operating OfficerWilliam J. Clifford53Senior Vice President-Finance and Chief Financial OfficerThomas P. Burke54Senior Vice President-Regional OperationsJohn V. Finamore52Senior Vice President-Regional OperationsRobert S. Ippolito59Vice President, Secretary and TreasurerJordan B. Savitch45Senior Vice President and General CounselSteven T. Snyder50Senior Vice President-Corporate Development

Peter M. Carlino.Mr. Carlino has served as our Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer since April
1994. Since
1976, Mr. Carlino has been President of Carlino Capital Management Corp. (formerly known as Carlino Financial Corporation), a holding company that owns and operates various Carlino family
businesses, in which capacity he has been continuously active in strategic planning and monitoring the operations.

Timothy J. Wilmott.Mr. Wilmott joined us in February 2008 as President and Chief Operating Officer.
Mr. Wilmott most recently served as Chief Operating Officer of Harrah's Entertainment, a position he held for approximately four years. In this position, he oversaw the operations of all of
Harrah's revenue-generating businesses, including 48 casinos, 38,000 hotel rooms and 300 restaurants. All Harrah's Division Presidents, Senior Vice Presidents of Brand Operations,
Marketing and Information Technology personnel reported to Mr. Wilmott in his capacity as Chief Operating Officer. Prior to his appointment to the position of Chief Operating Officer,
Mr. Wilmott served from 1997 to 2002 as Division President of Harrah's Eastern Division with responsibility for the operations of eight Harrah's properties.

William J. Clifford.Mr. Clifford joined us in August 2001 and was appointed to his current position as Senior Vice
President-Finance
and Chief Financial Officer in October 2001. From March 1997 to July 2001, Mr. Clifford served as the Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President of Finance with Sun International
Resorts, Inc., Paradise Island, Bahamas. From November 1993 to February 1997, Mr. Clifford was Financial, Hotel and Operations Controller for Treasure Island Hotel and Casino in Las
Vegas. From May 1989 to November 1993, Mr. Clifford was Controller for Golden Nugget Hotel and Casino, Las Vegas. Prior to May 1989, Mr. Clifford held the positions of Controller for the
Dunes Hotel and Casino, Las Vegas, Property Operations Analyst with Aladdin Hotel and Casino, Las Vegas, Casino Administrator with Las Vegas Hilton, Las Vegas, Senior Internal Auditor with Del Webb,
Las Vegas, and Agent, Audit Division, of the Nevada Gaming Control Board, Las Vegas and Reno.

Thomas P. Burke.Mr. Burke joined us in November 2002, and was appointed to his current position of Senior Vice
President-Regional
Operations effective October 2008. In this position, Mr. Burke is responsible for overseeing all facets of our facilities located in Colorado, Iowa, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, and New
Mexico as well as our joint venture in Kansas. Previously, Mr. Burke served as Vice President and General Manager of our Argosy Casino Riverside from June 2006 until October 2008 and as
President and General Manager of our Bullwhackers properties from November 2002 until June 2006. Prior to joining us, Mr. Burke held senior management positions at Ameristar Casinos, Station
Casinos, Trump Taj Mahal Casino Resort and Trump Castle Hotel/Casino, American Gaming and Entertainment and the Majestic Star Casino.

John V. Finamore.Mr. Finamore joined us in November 2002 as Senior Vice President-Regional Operations. In this position,
Mr. Finamore is responsible for overseeing all facets of our facilities











located
in Florida, Illinois, Maine, New Jersey, Ohio, Ontario, Pennsylvania, Maryland and West Virginia. Prior to joining us, Mr. Finamore served as President of Missouri Operations for
Ameristar Casinos, Inc. from December of 2000 until February of 2002 and President of Midwest Operations for Station Casinos, Inc. from July 1998 until November 2000. Mr. Finamore
has over 28 years of gaming industry and hotel management experience.

Robert S. Ippolito.In July 2001, we appointed Mr. Ippolito to the position of Vice President, Secretary and Treasurer.
Mr. Ippolito has served as our Secretary and Treasurer since April 1994 and as our Chief Financial Officer from April 1994 until July 2001. Mr. Ippolito brings more than 24 years
of gaming and racing experience to the management team both as a manager at a major accounting firm and as an officer of companies in the racing business.

Jordan B. Savitch.Mr. Savitch joined us in September 2002 as Senior Vice President and General Counsel. From June 1999 to
April 2002,
Mr. Savitch served as a director and senior executive at iMedium, Inc., a venture-backed software company offering innovative software solutions for increasing sales effectiveness. From
1995 to 1999, Mr. Savitch served as senior corporate counsel at Safeguard Scientifics, Inc., a NYSE-listed company specializing in identifying, developing and operating
emerging technology companies. Mr. Savitch also spent four years in private practice as an associate at Willkie Farr & Gallagher, LLP in New York, New York.

Steven T. Snyder.Mr. Snyder joined us in May 1998, and from 1998 through 2001 served as Vice President of Corporate
Development. In
June 2003, he accepted the position of Senior Vice President of Corporate Development and is responsible for identifying and conducting internal and industry analysis of potential acquisitions,
partnerships and other opportunities. Prior to joining us, Mr. Snyder was a partner with Hamilton Partners, Ltd., as well as Managing Director of Municipal and Corporate Investment
Banking for Meridian Capital Markets. Mr. Snyder began his career in finance at Butcher & Singer, where he served as First Vice President of Public Finance.

Governmental Regulations

The gaming and racing industries are highly regulated and we must maintain our licenses and pay gaming taxes to continue our
operations. Each of our facilities is subject to extensive regulation under the laws, rules and regulations of the jurisdiction where it is located. These laws, rules and regulations generally concern
the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners, managers, and persons with financial interests in the gaming operations. Violations of laws or regulations in one jurisdiction
could result in disciplinary action in other jurisdictions. A more detailed description of the regulations to which we are subject is contained in Exhibit 99.1 to this Annual Report on
Form 10-K, which is incorporated herein by reference.

Our
businesses are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations in addition to gaming regulations. These laws and regulations include, but are not limited to,
restrictions and conditions concerning alcoholic beverages, environmental matters, employees, currency transactions, taxation, zoning and building codes, and marketing and advertising. Such laws and
regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted. Material changes, new laws or regulations, or material differences in
interpretations by courts or governmental authorities could adversely affect our operating results.

Employees and Labor Relations

As of December 31, 2010, we had 15,636 full- and part-time employees.

We
are required to have agreements with the horsemen at each of our racetracks to conduct our live racing and simulcasting activities, with the exception of our tracks in Ohio and New
Mexico. In











addition,
in order to operate gaming machines and table games in West Virginia, we must maintain agreements with each of the Charles Town Horsemen, pari-mutuel clerks and breeders.

At
Hollywood Casino at Charles Town Races, we have an agreement with the Charles Town Horsemen expiring on December 31, 2011, and an agreement with the breeders that expires on
June 30, 2011. The pari-mutuel clerks at Charles Town are represented under a collective bargaining agreement with the West Virginia Union of Mutuel Clerks, which expired on
December 31, 2010 and has been extended on a month-to-month basis while negotiations are in process.

Our
agreement with the Pennsylvania Thoroughbred Horsemen at Penn National Race Course expires on September 30, 2011. We have a collective bargaining agreement with Local 137 of
the Sports Arena Employees at Penn National Race Course with respect to pari-mutuel clerks, admissions and Telebet personnel which expires on December 31, 2011. We also have an
agreement in place with Local 137 of the Sports Arena Employees with respect to pari-mutuel clerks and admission personnel at our OTWs, which expired on September 30, 2009
and has been extended pending continuing negotiations.

Our
agreement with the Maine Harness Horsemen Association at Bangor Raceway expires on December 31, 2011.

Our
agreement with the Ohio Harness Horsemen Association at Raceway Park expires on November 30, 2012. In connection with the acquisition of Beulah Park, we have assumed the
agreement with the Ohio Horsemen's Protective and Benevolent Association, which expires on November 30, 2012.

Across
certain of our properties, the Seafarers Entertainment and Allied Trade Union represents approximately 1,800 of our employees under agreements that expire at various times between
June 2012 and November 2015. At Hollywood Casino Joliet, the Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees Union ("UNITE/HERE") Local 1 represents approximately 270 employees under a collective bargaining
agreement which expires on March 31, 2011. In addition, at some of our properties, the Seafarer International Union of North America, Atlantic, Gulf, Lakes and Inland Waters District/NMU,
AFL-CIO, the Security Police and Fire Professionals of America, the International Brotherhood of Electronic Workers, the American Maritime Officers Union and the UNITE/HERE Local 10
represent certain of our employees under collective bargaining agreements that expire at various times between May 2012 and September 2016. None of these particular unions represent more than 50 of
our employees.

Available Information

For more information about us, visit our website at www.pngaming.com. The contents of our website are not part of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K. Our electronic filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (including all annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on
Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to these reports), including the exhibits, are available free of charge through our website as soon
as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish them to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.

