Item 1. Business

This Annual Report (including, but not limited to, the following section regarding
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations) contains
forward-looking statements regarding our business, financial condition, results of operations and
prospects. Words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “seeks,”
“estimates” and similar expressions or variations of such words are intended to identify
forward-looking statements, but are not the exclusive means of identifying forward-looking
statements in this Annual Report. Additionally, statements concerning future matters such as the
development of new products, enhancements or technologies, sales levels, expense levels and other
statements regarding matters that are not historical are forward-looking statements.

Although forward-looking statements in this Annual Report reflect our good faith judgment,
such statements can only be based on facts and factors currently known by us. Consequently,
forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties and actual results and
outcomes may differ materially from the results and outcomes discussed in or anticipated by the
forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences in results
and outcomes include without limitation those discussed under the heading “Risk Factors” below, as
well as those discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report. Readers are urged not to place undue
reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Annual
Report. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements in order to
reflect any event or circumstance that may arise after the date of this Annual Report. Readers are
urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures made in this Annual Report, which
attempt to advise interested parties of the risks and factors that may affect our business,
financial condition, results of operations and prospects.

We incorporated in 1985 under the laws of the state of California. In 1991, we reincorporated
in the state of Delaware. We operate and report using a 52-53 week fiscal year ending the last
Sunday in September. Our 52-week fiscal years consist of four equal quarters of 13 weeks each, and
our 53-week fiscal years consist of three 13-week fiscal quarters and one 14-week fiscal quarter.
The financial results for our 53-week fiscal years and our 14-week fiscal quarters will not be
exactly comparable to our 52-week fiscal years and our 13-week fiscal quarters. The fiscal years
ended September 26, 2010, September 27, 2009 and September 28, 2008 all included 52 weeks.



Overview

In 1989, we publicly introduced the concept that a digital communication technique called CDMA
could be commercially successful in cellular wireless communication applications. CDMA stands for
Code Division Multiple Access and is one of the main technologies currently used in digital
wireless communications networks (also known as wireless networks). CDMA and TDMA (Time Division
Multiple Access), of which Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM) is the primary commercial
form, are the primary digital technologies currently used to transmit a wireless device user’s
voice or data over radio waves using a public cellular wireless network. Because we led, and
continue to lead, the development and commercialization of CDMA technology, we own significant
intellectual property, including patents, patent applications and trade secrets, which applies to
all versions of CDMA, portions of which we license to other companies and implement in our own
products. The wireless communications industry generally recognizes that a company seeking to
develop, manufacture and/or sell products that use CDMA technology will require a patent license
from us.

We also continue our leading role in the development and commercialization of Orthogonal
Frequency Division Multiplexing Access (OFDMA)-based technologies for which we have substantial
intellectual property. Our CDMA licensees’ sales of multimode CDMA and OFDMA devices are covered by
their existing CDMA license agreements with us. We have begun to license companies to make and sell
OFDMA products that do not also implement CDMA, and nine companies have royalty-bearing licenses
under our patent portfolio for use in such OFDMA products.

Our Revenues.We generate revenues by licensing portions of our intellectual property to
manufacturers of wireless products (such as mobile devices, also known as subscriber units, which
include handsets, other consumer devices and modem cards, and the infrastructure required to
establish and operate a wireless network). We receive licensing fees and royalties on products sold
by our licensees that incorporate our patented technologies. We also sell products and services,
which include:





•CDMA-based integrated circuits (also known as chips or chipsets) and Radio Frequency
(RF) and Power Management (PM) chips and system software used in mobile devices and in
wireless networks;•Software products and services for content enablement across a wide variety of
platforms and devices for the wireless industry;•Equipment, software and services used by companies, including those in the
transportation industry and governments, to wirelessly connect with their assets and
workforce;•Software products and services that enable mobile commerce services;•Services to wireless operators delivering multimedia content, including live
television, in the United States; and•Software and hardware development services.

Our Licensing Business.We grant licenses to use portions of our intellectual property
portfolio, which includes certain patent rights essential to and/or useful in the manufacture and
sale of certain wireless products, and collect license fees and royalties in partial consideration
for such licenses.

Our Integrated Circuits Business.

Our Wireless Device Software and Related Services Business.We provide software products and
services for the global wireless industry. Our Brew products and services enable wireless
operators, device manufacturers and software developers to provide over-the-air and pre-loaded
wireless applications and services. Our Plaza products and services enable wireless operators,
device manufacturers and publishers to create and distribute mobile content across a variety of
platforms and devices. We also offer Xiam wireless content discovery and recommendation products to
help wireless operators improve usage and adoption of digital content and services. We also provide
QChat, a push to talk product optimized for third generation (3G) networks, as well as QPoint,
which enables wireless operators to offer enhanced 911 (E-911) wireless emergency and other
location-based applications and services.

Our Asset Tracking and Services Business.We design, manufacture and sell equipment, license
software and provide services to our customers to enable them to connect wirelessly with their
assets, products and workforce. We offer satellite- and terrestrial-based two-way wireless
connectivity and position location services to transportation and logistics fleets and other
enterprise companies to enable our customers to track the location and monitor the performance of
their assets, and the workflow of their personnel.





Our Mobile Commerce Business. In fiscal 2011, we expect to introduce a new product application
trademarked as SWAGG, which will be marketed on a standalone basis directly to consumers. SWAGG’s
core features include purchase and gift of virtually stored-value gift cards delivered via mobile
devices. In addition, we provide a single, secure, certified application embedded on select
wireless devices, which enables financial institutions and merchants to deliver branded services to
consumers through the wireless devices.

Our FLO TV Business.Our subsidiary, FLO TV Incorporated (FLO TV), currently offers its
service in the United States over our nationwide multicast network. We have commenced a
restructuring plan under which we expect to exit the current FLO TV service business.
Additionally, we continue to evaluate strategic options for the FLO TV business,
which include, but are not limited to, operating the FLO TV network under a new wholesale service
model; sale to, or joint venture with, a third party; and/or the sale of the spectrum licenses and
discontinuance of the operation of the network.

Our MediaFLO Technologies (MFT) division is comprised of the FLO Technology group, which
continues to develop our MediaFLO MDS and MediaFLO technology, and the FLO International group,
which markets MediaFLO for deployment outside of the United States. The market for mobile TV
remains nascent with numerous competing technologies and standards.

Our Display Business.We continue to develop display technology for the full range of
consumer-targeted mobile products. Our interferometric modulator (IMOD) display technology, based
on a MEMS structure combined with thin film optics and sold under the “mirasol” brand, is expected
to provide performance, power consumption and cost benefits as compared to current display
technologies.



Wireless Telecommunications Market

Use of wireless telecommunications devices has increased dramatically in the past decade.
According to Wireless Intelligence estimates as of November 1, 2010, the number of worldwide mobile
connections is expected to reach approximately 5.3 billion by the end of 2010 and almost 7.0
billion in 2014. Growth in the early days of wireless communications was driven by the need to make
voice calls in a mobile environment. More recently, increases in demand are primarily driven by the
desire to have access to data services in a mobile environment. This is evidenced by the continued
transition from 2G to 3G services. According to Wireless Intelligence, in March 2010, the industry
reached a significant milestone by surpassing one billion 3G connections. Furthermore, Wireless
Intelligence expects the number of global 3G connections to reach approximately 2.8 billion by
2014. There are several drivers for the growth in 3G:

•Consumer awareness and desire for data services;•Mature 3G networks with high data rates;•Consumer demand for data centric smartphone devices;•Emergence of new data devices; and•Growth in emerging regions.

The last couple of years have witnessed a significant increase in the consumer’s awareness and
willingness to use mobile data services. Applications such as email, access to the mobile Internet,
downloading of videos and social networking are driving the demand for 3G services and more capable
phones.

According to the CDMA Development Group (CDG) and the Global mobile Suppliers Association
(GSA), approximately 85% of the world’s wireless networks now support 3G, a sign that operators are
making network investments to address the growing demand for wireless data. Operators are
continuing to make network investments by upgrading their networks. According to the GSA,
approximately 99% of the global WCDMA operators have upgraded their networks to offer High Speed
Packet Access (HSPA) services. With support for higher data rates and increased capacity, networks
will evolve to keep up with the growing demand for wireless data.

The emergence of the mobile Internet is helping increase demand for 3G smartphones as the
ability to access data is simplified and enhanced when using a smartphone. In the early days of the
smartphone, these devices were designed primarily for high end business users. However, innovation
and competition are helping to drive a broader set of devices into the market that provide
compelling user experiences at consumer acceptable price points, which make such devices more
accessible by a larger portion of the subscriber base.

The need to stay connected anywhere, anytime is helping drive demand for data connectivity on
notebook and netbook computers with either embedded 3G connectivity or via an external 3G USB
modem. New device





categories, such as e-readers, have also emerged over the last couple of years. These new
devices take advantage of the capabilities of 3G networks to download digital books, newspapers and
magazines anywhere. Other emerging device categories, such as connected media tablets, digital
picture frames and machine to machine communication, will help further drive global demand for 3G.

Demand for wireless voice and data services in emerging regions is helping to increase global
demand for 3G. Emerging regions still have relatively low penetration rates of wireless
telecommunications services. 3G provides an efficient way for operators to offer both voice and
data services to address these demands, and since fixed broadband penetration is very low in these
regions, 3G presents a cost effective means of providing broadband capabilities to consumers.
According to Informa Telecoms & Media, more than 50% of 3G handset shipments will go to emerging
regions in 2011.



Wireless Technologies

The significant growth in the use of wireless devices worldwide, such as smartphones, and
demand for data services and applications requires constant innovation to further improve the user
experience, expand capacity and enable dense deployments of low power nodes, such as femtocells. To
meet these requirements, progressive generations of wireless telecommunications technology
standards have evolved. The use of wireless standards for mobile communications within individual
countries is generally determined by the telecommunication service providers operating in those
countries and, in some instances, local government regulations. Such determinations are typically
based on economic criteria and the service provider’s evaluation of each technology’s ability to
provide the features and functionality required for its business plan. More than two decades ago,
the European Community developed regulations requiring the use of the GSM standard, a TDMA-based,
2G technology. In addition, there are several versions of CDMA technology that have been adopted
worldwide as public cellular standards. The first version, known as cdmaOne, is a 2G cellular
technology that was first commercially deployed in the mid-1990s. The other subsequent versions of
CDMA are referred to as 3G technologies.

Second Generation.Compared to first generation analog systems, 2G digital technology provided
for significantly enhanced efficiency within a fixed spectrum resulting in greatly increased voice
capacity. 2G technologies also enabled numerous enhanced services, but data services were generally
limited to low speed transmission rates. The main 2G digital cellular technologies in use today are
called cdmaOne or IS-95A/B, a technology largely developed and patented by us, and GSM, a form of
TDMA. Many GSM operators deployed 2G mobile packet data technologies, such as General Packet Radio
Service (GPRS) and Enhanced Data Rates for Global Evolution (EDGE) in areas serviced by GSM.

Third Generation.As a result of demand for wireless networks that simultaneously carry both
high speed data and voice traffic, the International Telecommunications Union (ITU), a standards
setting organization, adopted the 3G standard known as IMT-2000, which encompasses six terrestrial
operating radio interfaces, each of which incorporates our intellectual property. Two are
TDMA-based, three of them are CDMA-based and the other is OFDMA-based. The three CDMA-based 3G
technologies are known commonly throughout the wireless industry as:

•CDMA2000, including 1X (including revisions A through E), 1xEV-DO (EV-DO, or
Evolution Data Optimized) including revisions A through C, developed by 3rdGeneration Partnership Project Two (3GPP2);•Wideband CDMA (WCDMA), also known as Universal Mobile Telecommunications Systems
(UMTS), including High Speed Packet Access (HSPA), part of 3rdGeneration
Partnership Project (3GPP) Release 5 and 6, and HSPA+, part of 3GPP Release 7, 8, 9 and
beyond; and•CDMA Time Division Duplex (TDD), of which there are currently two versions, Time
Division Duplex-CDMA (TD-CDMA) and Time Division-Synchronous CDMA (TD-SCDMA). Both are
part of the specifications developed by 3GPP.

Even though the OFDMA technologies are part of the IMT-2000 standard, to differentiate them
from the 3G CDMA technologies, the OFDMA technologies are often called fourth generation (4G).

Some of the advantages of 3G CDMA technology over 2G technologies include increased network
capacity, improved user experience, compatibility with internet protocols, higher capacity for data
and faster access to data (Internet) and higher data throughput rates. CDMA2000 and WCDMA are
widely deployed today in wireless networks throughout the world. TD-SCDMA has been deployed in
China. EV-DO Release B in the CDMA2000 family was launched in 2010; Release 7 of HSPA+ was launched
in 2009; and Release 8 of HSPA+ was launched in 2010.





CDMA2000 (1X, 1xEV-DO, EV-DO Revision A/B) networks are deployed by operators in several
markets that support both voice and a wide range of high-speed wireless data services. Enhancements
based upon the CDMA2000 Revision E Standard, called 1X Advanced, are being planned for CDMA2000 1X
that will further increase voice capacity. Standardization work has been completed on 1xEV-DO
Revision C, sometimes called DO-Advanced. Enhancements based upon these updated standards and
improved implementations have and will continue to be deployed in our products and wireless
networks to increase capacity and data rates.

GSM operators around the world, including those in the European Community and in the United
States, have focused primarily on the UMTS Frequency Division Duplexing (FDD) radio interface of
the IMT-2000 standard, known as WCDMA, for their network evolution. WCDMA is based on our CDMA
technology and incorporates many of our patented inventions (as do all of the CDMA radio interfaces
of the IMT-2000 standard). The majority of the world’s wireless device and infrastructure
manufacturers (more than 115 and including all leading suppliers) have licensed our technology for
use in WCDMA products, enabling them to utilize this WCDMA mode of the 3G technology. To enable GSM
operators to deploy WCDMA in the 900MHz spectrum band, the European Union permitted IMT-2000
technologies, which include WCDMA, to be deployed in the lower frequency 900 MHz band. This is
called UMTS900.

The three ITU 3G CDMA radio interfaces are all based on the core principles of CDMA
technology, and our intellectual property rights include a valuable patent portfolio essential to
implementation of each of the 3G CDMA alternative standards and patents that are useful for
commercially successful product implementations. Generally, we have licensed substantially all of
our relevant patents to our CDMA subscriber and infrastructure equipment licensees.

These 3G CDMA versions (CDMA2000, WCDMA, and TD-SCDMA) require separate implementations that
are not interchangeable. While the fundamental core technologies are derived from CDMA and, in
addition to other features and functionality, are covered by our patents, their specifications each
require unique infrastructure products, network design, air interface protocols and management.
However, subscriber roaming amongst systems using different air interfaces is made possible through
multimode wireless devices.

We have been actively pursuing research and development of OFDMA-based wireless communication
technologies. We believe that each of these standards incorporates our patented technologies. We
have nine companies with royalty-bearing licenses under our patent portfolio for use in single-mode
OFDMA products (i.e., OFDMA products that do not implement CDMA-based standards). Multimode
products that implement both OFDMA and CDMA technologies will, in most cases, be licensed under our
existing CDMA license agreements.

Our Engineering Resources.We have significant engineering resources, including engineers with
substantial expertise in CDMA, OFDMA and a broad range of other technologies. Using these
engineering resources, we expect to continue to develop new versions of CDMA, OFDMA and other
technologies, develop alternative technologies for certain specialized applications (including
multicast), participate in the formulation of new wireless telecommunications standards and
technologies and assist in deploying wireless voice and data communications networks around the
world.





Investments in New and Existing Products, Services and Technologies.We continue to
invest in research and development in a variety of ways in an effort to extend the market for our
products and services.

We develop and commercialize 3G CDMA-based technologies and are working on commercializing the
OFDMA-based LTE technology. We actively support CDMA-based technologies, products and network
operations to grow our royalty revenues and integrated circuit and software revenues. From time to
time, we may also make acquisitions to meet certain technology needs, to obtain development
resources or to pursue new business opportunities.

We develop on our own, and with our partners, innovations that are integrated into our product
portfolio to further expand the market and enhance the value of our products and services. These
innovations are expected to enable our customers to improve the performance or value of their
existing services, offer these services more affordably and introduce revenue-generating broadband
data services ahead of their competition.

We make investments to provide our integrated circuit customers with chipsets that combine
multiple wireless technologies for use in consumer devices, including smartphones, consumer
electronics and other data devices. Our integrated chipsets often include multiple technologies,
including advanced multimode modems, application processors and graphics engines, as well as the
tools to connect these diverse pieces of technology. We continue to support multiple mobile client
software environments in our multimedia and convergence chipsets, such as Brew Mobile Platform,
Java, Windows Mobile, Web OS, Linux, Android and Google Chrome.

We continue to develop our IMOD display technology based on a micro-electro-mechanical-systems
(MEMS) structure combined with thin film optics and sell such displays under the “mirasol” brand.
Early-stage mirasol displays have been incorporated in a limited number of consumer devices. IMOD
display technologies may be included in the full range of consumer-targeted mobile products and are
expected to provide performance, power consumption and cost benefits as compared to current display
technologies. In June 2009, we commenced operations of a dedicated mirasol display fabrication
plant in Taiwan. Operation of this plant is outsourced to Cheng Uei Precision Industry Co., Ltd.
(also known as Foxlink), a developer and manufacturer of communications devices, computers and
consumer electronics.

We continue to develop our MediaFLO MDS and Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing
(OFDM)-based MediaFLO technology, including development to extend the
MDS operability to multiple air interfaces, to optimize the low-cost data
offload and delivery of multimedia content to
multiple wireless subscribers simultaneously, otherwise known as multicasting.

We make strategic investments in early-stage and other companies that we believe open new
markets for our technology, support the design and introduction of new products and services and/or
possess unique capabilities or technology. To the extent that such investments become liquid and
meet our strategic objectives, we intend to make regular periodic sales of our interests in these
investments that are recognized in investment income.



Operating Segments

Consolidated revenues from international customers and licensees as a percentage of total
revenues were 95%, 94% and 91% in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. During fiscal 2010,
29%, 27%, 12% and 9% of our revenues were from customers and licensees based in China, South Korea,
Taiwan and Japan, respectively, as compared to 23%, 35%, 8% and 11% during fiscal 2009,
respectively, and 21%, 35%, 5% and 14% during fiscal 2008, respectively. Revenues from two
customers, LG Electronics and Samsung Electronics, constituted a significant portion (each more
than 10%) of consolidated revenues in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008.

Qualcomm CDMA Technologies Segment (QCT).QCT is a leading developer and supplier of
CDMA-based integrated circuits and system software for wireless voice and data communications,
multimedia functions and global positioning system products. QCT’s integrated circuit products and
system software are used in wireless devices, particularly mobile phones, laptops, data modules,
handheld wireless computers, data cards and infrastructure equipment. These products provide
customers with advanced wireless technology, enhanced component integration and interoperability
and reduced time-to-market. QCT markets and sells products in the United States and internationally
through a global sales force. QCT products are sold to many of the world’s leading wireless device
and infrastructure equipment manufacturers. In fiscal 2010, QCT shipped approximately 399 million
MSM integrated circuits for CDMA wireless devices worldwide, as compared to approximately 317
million and 336 million in fiscal 2009 and 2008, respectively. QCT revenues comprised 61%, 59% and
60% of total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

QCT utilizes a fabless production business model, which means that we do not own or operate
foundries for the production of silicon wafers from which our integrated circuits are made.
Integrated circuits are die cut from silicon wafers that have completed the assembly and final test
manufacturing processes. Die cut from silicon wafers are the





essential components of all of our
integrated circuits and a significant portion of the total integrated circuit cost. We rely on
independent third-party suppliers to perform the manufacturing and assembly, and most of the
testing, of our integrated circuits. Our suppliers are also responsible for the procurement of most
of the raw materials used in the production of our integrated circuits. The majority of our
integrated circuits are purchased using a two-stage manufacturing business model, in which we
purchase die from semiconductor manufacturing foundries and contract with separate third-party
manufacturers for back-end assembly and test services. We refer to this two-stage manufacturing
business model as Integrated Fabless Manufacturing (IFM). We also employ a turnkey model in which
our foundry suppliers are responsible for delivering fully assembled and tested integrated
circuits. Our fabless model provides us the flexibility to select suppliers that offer advanced
process technologies to manufacture, assemble and test our integrated circuits at a competitive
price.

Globalfoundries, IBM, Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing
Company, Ltd. and United Microelectronics Corporation are the primary foundry suppliers for our
family of baseband integrated circuits. Freescale Semiconductor, Inc., Globalfoundries, IBM,
Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company,
Ltd. and United Microelectronics Corporation are the primary foundry suppliers for our family of
analog, RF and PM integrated circuits. Advanced Semiconductor Engineering Inc., Amkor Technology
Inc. and STATSChipPAC Ltd. are the primary back-end semiconductor assembly and test suppliers under
our IFM model.

QCT offers a broad portfolio of products, including both wireless device and infrastructure
integrated circuits, in support of CDMA2000 1X and 1xEV-DO, as well as the EV-DO Revision A and
EV-DO Revision B evolutions of CDMA 2000 technology. Leveraging our expertise in CDMA, we have also
developed integrated circuits for manufacturers and wireless operators deploying the WCDMA version
of 3G. More than 60 device manufacturers have selected our WCDMA products that support GSM/GPRS,
WCDMA, HSDPA, HSUPA and HSPA+ for their devices. We have not commercially sold a CSM integrated
circuit product for WCDMA base station equipment. Recently, QCT also began shipping multimode
products for the LTE standard, which offer seamless backward compatibility to existing 3G
technologies.

Our gpsOne position location technology is in more than 500 million gpsOne enabled devices
sold worldwide. Compatible with all major air interfaces, our gpsOne technology is the industry’s
only fully-integrated wireless baseband and assisted global positioning system product and has
enabled network operators to cost-effectively meet the FCC’s E-911 mandate as well as offer a wide
range of services leveraging location data.

Our integrated circuit products span a broad range of market tiers, from entry-level solutions
for emerging markets up to the very high-end device tier. Our chipsets integrate unique
combinations of features, such as multi-megapixel cameras, videotelephony, streaming multimedia,
audio, 3D graphics, advanced position-location capabilities through integrated gpsOne technology
and peripheral connectivity, to enable a wide range of devices.

The Snapdragon family of chipset products is designed to enable our customers to develop
computing-centric devices that also offer a full range of wireless connectivity capabilities.
Integrating the baseband and a custom Qualcomm designed low-power high-performance microprocessor
into a single chip or package, the Snapdragon platform expands Qualcomm’s reach beyond the
traditional wireless market by targeting not only the very high-end smartphone market but also the
smartbook and tablet categories of consumer products and other types of consumer electronics.

Gobi modules are designed to deliver embedded mobile wireless connectivity to notebook and
netbook computers. Supporting numerous air interfaces, Gobi modules also feature global positioning
system capabilities to allow notebook manufacturers to more easily offer greater connectivity with
their products. Gobi modules have also been used in e-readers, routers and other products that
benefit from 3G connectivity.

QCT also offers chipsets for WLAN and Bluetooth, complementary connectivity technologies to
its core 3G products. For WLAN, QCT offers the WCN1312 chip for handsets and other mobile devices.
QCT’s Bluetooth chips support Bluetooth connectivity for handsets and headsets.

The market in which our QCT segment operates is intensely competitive. QCT competes worldwide
with a number of United States and international designers and manufacturers of semiconductors. As
a result of global expansion by foreign and domestic competitors, technological changes and the
potential for further industry consolidation, we anticipate the market to remain very competitive.
We believe that the principal competitive factors for our products may include performance, level
of integration, quality, compliance with industry standards, price,
time-to-market, system cost, design and engineering capabilities, new product innovation and
customer support. We also compete in both single- and dual-mode environments against alternative
wireless communications technologies including, but not limited to, GSM/GPRS/EDGE, TDMA, TD-SCDMA
and WiMax.





QCT’s
current competitors include, but are not limited to, major companies
such as Broadcom, Freescale, Fujitsu, Icera,
Intel (through their recently announced agreement to acquire Infineon’s Wireless Solutions
business), Marvell Technology, Mediatek, nVidia, Renesas Electronics, ST-Ericsson
(a joint venture between Ericsson Mobile Platforms and ST-NXP Wireless), Texas Instruments and VIA Telecom, as well as
major telecommunications equipment companies such as Ericsson, Matsushita, Motorola and Samsung,
who design at least some of their own integrated circuits and software for certain products. QCT
also faces competition from some early-stage companies. Our competitors may devote significantly
greater amounts of their financial, technical and other resources to market competitive
telecommunications systems or to develop and adopt competitive digital cellular technologies, and
those efforts may materially and adversely affect QCT. Moreover, competitors may offer more
attractive product pricing or financing terms than we do as a means of gaining access to the
wireless telecommunications market or customers.

Qualcomm Technology Licensing Segment (QTL).QTL grants licenses or otherwise provides rights
to use portions of our intellectual property portfolio, which includes certain patent rights
essential to and/or useful in the manufacture and sale of certain wireless products, including,
without limitation, products implementing cdmaOne, CDMA2000, WCDMA, CDMA TDD (including TD-SCDMA),
GSM/GPRS/EDGE and/or OFDMA (e.g., LTE, WiMax) standards and their derivatives. QTL receives license
fees as well as ongoing royalties based on worldwide sales by licensees of products incorporating
or using our intellectual property. License fees are fixed amounts paid in one or more
installments. Ongoing royalties are generally based upon a percentage of the wholesale (i.e.,
licensee’s) selling price of licensed products, net of certain permissible deductions (e.g.,
certain shipping costs, packing costs, VAT, etc.). Revenues generated from royalties are subject to
quarterly and annual fluctuations. QTL revenues comprised 33%, 35% and 33% of total consolidated
revenues in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

As part of our strategy to expand the marketplace and generate new and ongoing licensing
revenues, significant resources are allocated to develop leading-edge technology for the
telecommunications industry. In addition to licensing manufacturers of subscriber and network
equipment, we have made our essential CDMA and OFDMA patents available to competitors of our QCT
segment. We have entered into such agreements with QCT competitors, including Broadcom, Fujitsu,
Icera, Infineon (Intel recently announced an agreement to acquire
Infineon’s Wireless Solutions business), Mediatek, NEC,  Renesas
Electronics,  Texas Instruments and VIA Telecom.
These agreements generally permit the
manufacture of CDMA-based and/or OFDMA-based integrated circuits
and/or baseband software for use on such integrated circuits. In exchange for these rights, we
receive rights that allow us to use certain intellectual property rights of these companies for
specified purposes. In every case, these agreements do not allow such integrated circuit suppliers
to pass through rights under Qualcomm’s patents to their customers for use in wireless devices
manufactured or sold by such suppliers’ customers, and such customers’ sales of CDMA-, WCDMA- and
OFDMA-based cellular devices into which such suppliers’ integrated circuits are incorporated
require separate licensing arrangements with us in order to use our patented technologies.

Qualcomm Wireless & Internet Segment (QWI).QWI revenues comprised 6%, 6% and 7% of total
consolidated revenues in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The four divisions aggregated
into QWI are:

Qualcomm Internet Services (QIS).The QIS division offers a set of software products and
content enablement services to support and accelerate the growth and advancement of the wireless
data market. QIS offers Brew products and services for wireless applications development, device
configuration, application distribution and billing and payment. Brew services are offered by
operators worldwide, reaching a base of more than 250 million devices. In addition, QIS offers
Plaza products and services that enable mobile shopping experiences across various





Qualcomm Enterprise Services (QES). The QES division provides equipment, software and services
to enable companies to wirelessly connect with their assets and workforce. QES offers satellite-
and terrestrial-based two-way wireless connectivity and position location services to
transportation and logistics fleets and other enterprise companies that permit customers to track
the location and monitor performance of their assets, communicate with their personnel and collect
data. The QES division markets and sells products through a sales force, partnerships and
distributors based in the United States, Europe, Latin America, Asia and Canada. Through September
2010, we have shipped approximately 1,423,000 satellite- and terrestrial-based mobile information
units. Wireless transmissions and position tracking for satellite-based systems are provided by
using leased transponders on commercially available geostationary Earth orbit satellites. The
terrestrial-based systems use wireless digital and analog terrestrial networks for messaging
transmission and the global positioning system constellation for position tracking. We generate
revenues from sales of network products and terminals, and information and location-based service
and license fees.

In the United States and Mexico, we manufacture mobile communications equipment, sell related
software packages and provide ongoing messaging and maintenance services. Message transmissions for
operations in the United States are formatted and processed at our Network Management and Data
Center in San Diego, California, with a fully-redundant backup Network Management and Data Center
located in Las Vegas, Nevada.

Existing competitors of our QES division offering alternatives to our products are
aggressively pricing their products and services and could continue to do so in the future. In our
domestic markets, we face over ten key competitors to our satellite- and terrestrial-based mobile
fleet management and asset tracking products and services. Internationally, we face several key
competitors in Europe and Mexico. These competitors are offering new
value-added products and services similar in many cases to our existing or developing technologies.
Emergence of new competitors, particularly those offering low-cost terrestrial-based products and
current, as well as future, satellite-based systems, may impact margins and intensify competition
in new markets. Similarly, some original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) of trucks and truck
components are beginning to offer built-in, on-board communications and position location reporting
systems that may impact our margins and intensify competition in our current and





new markets. We
are currently in discussions with some trucking manufacturers about using our products as their
embedded solution.

Qualcomm Government Technologies (QGOV).The QGOV division provides development, hardware and
analytical expertise involving wireless communications technologies to United States government
(USG) agencies. QGOV adapts, integrates and ships CDMA2000 1X and EV-DO deployable base stations to
the USG. QGOV also developed and launched a Brew-based application providing encryption on mobile
devices. Based on the percentage of QGOV revenues to our total consolidated revenues, the USG is
not a major customer.

Firethorn.In fiscal 2011, Firethorn expects to introduce a new product application
trademarked as SWAGG, which will be marketed on a standalone basis directly to consumers. SWAGG’s
core features include access to merchant loyalty accounts and plastic gift card balances; purchase
and gift of virtually stored-value gift cards delivered via mobile devices; and access to relevant
and targeted offers from participating merchants. Distribution of SWAGG will initially be limited
to certain smartphones, and content will be sourced from merchants, primarily through open
platforms. In addition, Firethorn provides a single, secure, certified application embedded on
select wireless devices, which enables financial institutions and merchants to deliver branded
services to consumers through the wireless devices.

Qualcomm
Strategic Initiatives Segment (QSI).QSI consists of our strategic investment activities,
including FLO TV Incorporated, our wholly-owned wireless multimedia operator subsidiary. As part of
our strategic investment activities, we intend to pursue various exit strategies at some point in
the future.

Strategic Investments.We make strategic investments in early-stage and other companies and in
wireless spectrum, such as the BWA spectrum recently won in the auction in India, that we believe
will open new markets for CDMA- and OFDMA-based technologies, support the design and introduction
of new CDMA and OFDMA products and services for wireless voice and internet data communications or
possess unique capabilities or technology.

FLO TV.Our FLO TV subsidiary currently operates a nationwide multicast network in the United
States based on our MediaFLO MDS and MediaFLO technology, which leverages the Forward Link Only
(FLO) air interface standard. FLO TV’s network uses the 700 MHz spectrum for which we hold licenses
nationwide. We have commenced a restructuring plan under which we expect to exit the current FLO TV
service business. Additionally, we continue to evaluate strategic options
for the FLO TV business, which include, but are not limited to, operating the FLO TV network under
a new wholesale service model; sale to, or joint venture with, a third party; and/or the sale of
the spectrum licenses and the discontinuance of the operation of the network.

We continue to develop our MediaFLO technology to enable FLO TV and potentially other
international wireless operators to optimize the low cost delivery of multimedia content to
multiple wireless subscribers simultaneously. Our efforts to sell this technology internationally
are being conducted by a nonreportable segment (MFT), and not by QSI, as we do not intend to pursue
an exit strategy from the MFT business. Our MediaFLO technology is designed specifically to bring
broadcast quality video to mobile devices efficiently and cost effectively. The MediaFLO technology
operates on a dedicated broadcast network and is complementary to wireless operators currently
operating on CDMA2000 1xEV-DO, WCDMA or GSM networks.

We face indirect competition to our FLO TV products and services from wireless delivery of
streaming and downloadable video content via wireless operators, OEMs and other providers of mobile
video content, as well as from internet video content accessed through the mobile web browser.

Other Businesses.

Qualcomm MEMS Technologies (QMT).We continue to develop display technology for the full range
of consumer-targeted mobile products. QMT’s IMOD display technology, based on a MEMS structure
combined with thin film optics and sold under the “mirasol” brand, is expected to provide
performance, power consumption and cost benefits as compared to current display technologies. With
the inclusion of color displays in all types of wireless devices, including models at the low end
of the market, the cost of the display has become an even more significant factor in the overall
cost of the device. An IMOD display should cost less to manufacture than a
comparable liquid crystal display because it requires fewer components and processing steps,
thus supporting advanced multimedia capabilities on all tiers of mobile devices.

MediaFLO Technologies (MFT).MFT is comprised of the FLO Technology group, which continues to
develop our MediaFLO technology, and the FLO International group, which markets MediaFLO for
deployment outside of the United States. Global market awareness of MediaFLO technology has been
increasing through a number of successful trials in the United Kingdom, Taiwan, Hong Kong and
Malaysia.





In addition, we are pursuing international opportunities to market and deploy MediaFLO
technology worldwide. The FLO air interface is an open, globally-recognized technology standardized
by the Telecommunications Industry Association and the European Telecommunications Standards
Institute. It is also recommended by the International Telecommunication Union’s Radiocommunication
Sector for the broadcasting of multimedia and data applications.



Research and Development

The wireless telecommunications industry is characterized by rapid technological change,
requiring a continuous effort to enhance existing products and develop new products and
technologies. Our research and development team has a demonstrated track record of innovation in
wireless communications technologies. Our research and development expenditures in fiscal 2010,
2009 and 2008 totaled approximately $2.5 billion, $2.4 billion and $2.3 billion, respectively, and
as a result, continue to expand our intellectual property portfolio. Research and development
expenditures were primarily related to the development of integrated circuit products, next
generation CDMA and OFDMA technologies and other initiatives to support the acceleration of
advanced wireless products and services, including lower cost devices, the integration of wireless
with consumer electronics and computing, the convergence of multiband, multimode, multinetwork
products and technologies, third-party operating systems and services platforms. The technologies
supporting these initiatives may include CDMA2000 1X, 1xEV-DO, EV-DO Revision A, EV-DO Revision B,
1x Advanced, WCDMA, HSDPA, HSUPA, HSPA+ and LTE. Research and development expenditures were also
incurred related to the development of our MediaFLO technology, MediaFLO MDS, mirasol display
products using MEMS technology, Brew products and mobile commerce applications.

We have research and development centers in various locations throughout the world that
support our global development activities and ongoing efforts to advance CDMA, OFDMA and a broad
range of other technologies. We continue to use our substantial engineering resources and expertise
to develop new technologies, applications and services and make them available to licensees to help
grow the wireless telecommunications market and generate new or expanded licensing opportunities.
In addition to internally sponsored research and development, we perform contract research and
development for various government agencies and commercial contractors.



Sales and Marketing

Sales and marketing activities of our operating segments are discussed under Operating
Segments in Item 1. Other marketing activities include public relations, web-marketing,
participation in technical conferences and trade shows, development of business cases and white
papers, competitive analyses, market intelligence and other marketing programs, such as cooperative
marketing with our customers. Corporate Marketing provides company information on our Internet site
and through other media regarding our products, strategies and technology to industry analysts and
for publications.



Competition

Competition to our operating segments is discussed under Operating Segments in Item 1.
Competition in the wireless industry throughout the world continues to increase at a rapid pace as
consumers, businesses and governments realize the market potential of wireless telecommunications
products and services. We have facilitated competition in the wireless market by licensing and
enabling a large number of manufacturers. Although we have attained a significant position in the
industry, many of our current and potential competitors may have advantages over us, which include,
among others: motivation by our customers in certain circumstances to find alternate suppliers or
choose alternate technologies; and government support of other technologies (e.g., GSM). In
addition, our competitors may have established more extensive relationships with indigenous
distribution and original equipment manufacturer companies in developing territories (e.g., China).
These relationships may affect customers’ decisions to purchase products or license technology from
us. Accordingly, new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire
significant market share to our detriment.

We may face competition throughout the world with new technologies and services introduced in
the future as additional competitors enter the marketplace for products based on 3G standards,
OFDMA-based technologies or other wireless technologies. Although we intend to continue to develop
improvements to existing technologies, as well as potential new technologies, there may be a
continuing competitive threat from companies introducing
alternative versions of wireless technologies. It is also possible that the price we charge
for our products and services may continue to decline as competition continues to intensify.



Patents, Trademarks and Trade Secrets

We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trade secrets, trademarks and proprietary
information to maintain and enhance our competitive position. We have an extensive portfolio of
United States and foreign patents, and we continue to pursue patent applications around the world.
Our patents have broad coverage in many countries, including China, Japan, South Korea, Europe,
Brazil, India, Taiwan and elsewhere. A substantial portion of our





patents and patent applications
relate to digital wireless communications technologies, including patents that are essential or may
be relevant to CDMA2000, WCDMA (UMTS), TD-SCDMA, TD-CDMA and OFDMA products.

Standards bodies have been informed that we hold patents that might be essential for all 3G
standards that are based on CDMA. We have committed to such standards bodies that we will offer to
license our essential patents for these CDMA standards on a fair and reasonable basis free from
unfair discrimination. We have also informed standards bodies that we hold patents that might be
essential for certain standards that are based on OFDMA technology (e.g., 802.16e, 802.16m and LTE
(including FDD and TDD versions)).

Since our founding in 1985, we have focused heavily on technology development and innovation.
These efforts have resulted in a leading intellectual property portfolio related to, among other
things, wireless technology. Because all commercially deployed forms of CDMA and their derivatives
require the use of our patents, our patent portfolio is the most widely and extensively licensed
portfolio in the industry with over 185 licensees. Over the years a number of companies have
challenged our patent position but at this time most, if not all, companies recognize that any
company seeking to develop, manufacture and/or sell products that use CDMA technologies will
require a license or other rights to use our patents.

As part of our strategy to generate licensing revenues that continue to support our research
and development investments and support worldwide adoption of our CDMA technology, we provide
rights to design, manufacture and sell products utilizing certain portions of our intellectual
property to other companies, including those companies listed on our Internet site
(www.qualcomm.com).

In all cases, we have licensed or otherwise provided rights to use our patented technologies
to interested companies on terms that are fair, reasonable and free from unfair discrimination.
Unlike some other companies in our industry that hold back certain key technologies, we offer
interested companies essentially our entire patent portfolio for use in cellular devices and cell
site infrastructure equipment. Our strategy to broadly make available our patented technologies has
been a catalyst for industry growth, helping to enable a wide range of companies offering a broad
array of wireless products and features while driving down average and low-end selling prices for
3G handsets and other wireless devices. By licensing or otherwise providing rights to a wide range
of equipment manufacturers, encouraging innovative applications, supporting equipment manufacturers
with a total chipset and software solution, and focusing on improving the efficiency of the airlink
for wireless operators, we have helped 3G CDMA evolve, grow and reduce device pricing all at a
faster pace than the second generation technologies that preceded it (e.g., GSM).



Corporate Responsibility

At Qualcomm, we realize we have a significant role to play as we strive to better both our
local and global communities through ethical business practices, socially empowering technology
applications, educational and environmental programs and employee diversity and volunteerism.

•Community Involvement.We are dedicated to developing and strengthening communities
worldwide and believe that involvement with community organizations is an important
avenue for our employees to develop as professionals and as citizens.•Diversity.We strongly believe in fostering an inclusive work environment globally
and are committed to advancing opportunities for all employees and encouraging
diversity through the workforce.







•Environmental Health and Safety.We take a proactive approach to programs and
techniques that contribute to a better environment for our local communities as well as
our employees.•Corporate Sustainability.We are committed to energy efficiency, renewable energy
and sustainable best practices to reduce our carbon footprint.•Wireless Reach.We believe access to advanced wireless voice and data services
improves people’s lives. Qualcomm’s Wireless Reach initiative supports programs and
solutions that bring the benefits of connectivity to underserved communities globally.
By working with partners, Wireless Reach projects create new ways for people to
communicate, learn, access health care, sustain the environment and reach global
markets.



Employees

At September 26, 2010, we employed approximately 17,500 full-time, part-time and temporary
employees. During fiscal 2010, the number of employees increased by approximately 1,400 primarily
due to increases in engineering resources.



Available Information

Our Internet address is www.qualcomm.com. There we make available, free of charge, our annual
report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments
to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material
with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). We also make available on our
Internet site public financial information for which a report is not required to be filed with or
furnished to the SEC. Our SEC reports and other financial information can be accessed through the
investor relations section of our Internet site. The information found on our Internet site is not
part of this or any other report we file with or furnish to the SEC.

The public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public
Reference Room located at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain
information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at (202) 551-8090. The
SEC also maintains electronic versions of our reports on its website at www.sec.gov.



Executive Officers

Our executive officers (and their ages at September 26, 2010) are as follows:

Paul E. Jacobs, age 47, has served as Chairman of the Board of Directors since March 2009, as
a director since June 2005 and as Chief Executive Officer since July 2005. He served as Group
President of the Qualcomm Wireless & Internet (QWI) Group from July 2001 to June 2005. In addition,
he served as Executive Vice President from February 2000 to June 2005. Dr. Jacobs has been a
director of A123 Systems, Inc., a lithium-ion battery developer and manufacturer, since November
2002. Dr. Jacobs holds a B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, an M.S. degree
in Electrical Engineering and a Ph.D. degree in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from
the University of California, Berkeley. Dr. Paul Jacobs is the son of Dr. Irwin Mark Jacobs, a
director of the Company.

Steven R. Altman, age 49, has served as President since July 2005. He served as Executive Vice
President from November 1997 to June 2005 and as President of Qualcomm Technology Licensing (QTL)
from September 1995 to April 2005. Mr. Altman served as a director of Amylin Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
from March 2006 to April 2010. Mr. Altman holds a B.S. degree in Political Science and
Administration from Northern Arizona University and a J.D. from the University of San Diego.

Derek K. Aberle, age 40, has served as Executive Vice President and as President of QTL since
September 2008. From October 2006 to September 2008, he served as Senior Vice President and as
General Manager of QTL. Mr. Aberle joined Qualcomm in December 2000 and prior to October 2006 held
positions ranging from Legal Counsel to Vice President and General Manager of QTL. Mr. Aberle holds
a B.A. degree in Business Economics from the University of California, Santa Barbara and a J.D.
from the University of San Diego.

Andrew M. Gilbert, age 47, has served as Executive Vice President and President of Qualcomm
Europe since September 2010. He served as Executive Vice President and President of Qualcomm
Internet Services (QIS) and
Qualcomm Europe from May 2009 to September 2010, Executive Vice President and President of QIS,
MediaFLO Technologies (MFT) and Qualcomm Europe from January 2008 to May 2009, as Senior Vice
President and President of Qualcomm Europe from November 2006 to January 2008 and as President of
Qualcomm Europe from February 2006 to November 2006. Mr. Gilbert joined Qualcomm in January 2006 as
Vice President of Qualcomm





Europe. Prior to joining Qualcomm, he served as Vice President and
General Manager of Flarion Technologies’ European, Middle Eastern and African regions from May 2002
to January 2006.

Margaret “Peggy” L. Johnson, age 48, has served as Executive Vice President of the Americas
and India since January 2008 and as Executive Vice President since December 2006. She served as
President of MFT from December 2005 to January 2008 and as President of QIS from July 2001 to
January 2008. She served as Senior Vice President and General Manager of QIS from September 2000 to
July 2001. Ms. Johnson holds a B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering from San Diego State
University.

William E. Keitel, age 57, has served as Executive Vice President since December 2003 and as
Chief Financial Officer since February 2002. He previously served as Senior Vice President and as
Corporate Controller from May 1999 to February 2002. Mr. Keitel holds a B.A. degree in Business
Administration from the University of Wisconsin and an M.B.A. from Arizona State University.

James P. Lederer, age 50, has served as Executive Vice President and General Manager of
Qualcomm CDMA Technologies (QCT) since May 2009. He served as Executive Vice President, QCT
Business Planning and Finance from May 2008 to May 2009, Senior Vice President, QCT Finance from
April 2005 to April 2008, Vice President, Finance from July 2001 to April 2005 and Senior Director,
Finance from October 2000 to July 2001. Mr. Lederer joined Qualcomm in 1997 as Senior Manager,
Corporate Finance. Mr. Lederer holds a B.S. degree in Business Administration (Finance/MIS) and an
M.B.A. from the State University of New York at Buffalo.

Steven M. Mollenkopf, age 41, has served as Executive Vice President and Group President since
September 2010. He served as Executive Vice President and President of QCT from August 2008 to
September 2010, as Executive Vice President, QCT Product Management from May 2008 to July 2008, as
Senior Vice President, Engineering and Product Management from July 2006 to May 2008 and as Vice
President, Engineering from April 2002 to July 2006. Mr. Mollenkopf joined Qualcomm in 1994 as an
engineer and throughout his tenure at Qualcomm held several other technical and leadership roles.
Mr. Mollenkopf holds a B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering from Virginia Tech and an M.S. degree
in Electrical Engineering from the University of Michigan.

Roberto Padovani, age 56, has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer
since November 2001. He previously served as Executive Vice President from July 2001 to November
2001 in Corporate Research and Development and as Senior Vice President from July 1996 to July
2001. Dr. Padovani holds a Laureate degree from the University of Padova, Italy and M.S. and Ph.D.
degrees from the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, all in Electrical and Computer Engineering.

Donald J. Rosenberg, age 59, has served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and
Corporate Secretary since October 2007. He served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and
Corporate Secretary for Apple Computer, Inc. from December 2006 to October 2007. From May 1975 to
November 2006, Mr. Rosenberg held numerous positions at IBM Corporation, including Senior Vice
President and General Counsel. Mr. Rosenberg holds a B.S. degree in Mathematics from the State
University of New York at Stony Brook and a J.D. from St. John’s University School of Law.

Daniel L. Sullivan, age 59, has served as Executive Vice President of Human Resources since
August 2001. He previously served as Senior Vice President of Human Resources from February 1996 to
July 2001. Dr. Sullivan holds a B.S. degree in Communication from Illinois State University, an
M.A. degree in Communication from West Virginia University and a Ph.D. in Organization
Communication from the University of Nebraska.

Jing Wang, age 48, has served as Executive Vice President of Asia Pacific, Middle East and
Africa since January 2008. He previously served as Chairman, Qualcomm Asia Pacific from August 2006
to January 2008 and as Chairman, Qualcomm Greater China from March 2003 to August 2006. Mr. Wang
joined Qualcomm as Senior Vice President in February 2001. Mr. Wang holds a B.A. degree in
Literature from Anhui University, an LL.M from the People’s University of China, Department of Law,
and an LL.M from the University of Virginia School Of Law.



