ITEM 1.BUSINESS

General

National Oilwell Varco, Inc. (“NOV” or the “Company”), a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1995, is a leading worldwide provider in the
design, manufacture and sale of equipment and components used in oil and gas drilling, completion and production operations, and the provision of oilfield services to the upstream oil and gas industry. The Company conducts operations in
approximately 900 locations across six continents.

The Company’s principal executive offices are located at 7909 Parkwood Circle Drive, Houston,
Texas 77036, its telephone number is (713) 346-7500. Further information about the Company’s products and services can be found on its website at:http://www.nov.com. The Company’s annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports
on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments thereto, are available free of charge on its Internet website. These reports are posted on the website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). The Company’s Code of Ethics is also posted on its website.

The Company has a long tradition
of pioneering innovations which improve the cost-effectiveness, efficiency, safety and environmental impact of oil and gas operations. The Company’s common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “NOV”. The
Company operates through four reporting segments: Rig Systems, Rig Aftermarket, Wellbore Technologies and Completion & Production Solutions.

On
May 30, 2014, the Company completed the previously announced spin-off of its distribution business into an independent public company named NOW Inc., which trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “DNOW”. After the close
of the New York Stock Exchange on May 30, 2014, stockholders of record as of May 22, 2014 (the “Record Date”) received one share of NOW Inc. common stock for every four NOV common shares they held as of the Record Date. No
fractional shares of NOW Inc. common stock were distributed. The transfer agent aggregated any fractional shares into whole shares, sold those whole shares in the open market at prevailing rates and distributed the net cash proceeds, after deducting
any taxes required to be withheld and brokerage charges and commissions, pro rata to each holder who would otherwise have been entitled to receive fractional shares in the distribution. Our operating segments were realigned upon separation of NOW
Inc., and as a result, all prior periods are presented on this basis. Results of operations related to NOW Inc. have been classified as discontinued operations in all periods presented on Form 10-K.

Rig Systems

The Company’s Rig Systems segment makes
and supports the capital equipment and integrated systems needed to drill oil and gas wells on land and offshore. The segment designs, manufactures and sells land rigs, offshore drilling equipment packages, including installation and commissioning
services, and drilling rig components that mechanize and automate the drilling process and rig functionality.

Equipment and technologies in Rig Systems
include: substructures, derricks, and masts; cranes; pipe lifting, racking, rotating, and assembly systems; fluid transfer technologies, such as mud pumps; pressure control equipment, including blowout preventers; power transmission systems,
including drives and generators; and rig instrumentation and control systems.

Rig Systems supports land and offshore drillers. Demand for the
segment’s products depends on drilling contractors’ and oil and gas companies’ capital spending plans, specifically capital expenditures on rig construction and refurbishment.

Rig Aftermarket

The Company’s Rig Aftermarket
segment provides comprehensive aftermarket products and services to support land and offshore rigs, and drilling rig components manufactured by the Company’s Rig Systems segment.

The segment provides spare parts, repair, and rentals as well as technical support, field service and first well support, field engineering, and customer
training through a network of aftermarket service and repair facilities strategically located in major areas of drilling operations.






Rig Aftermarket supports land and offshore drillers. Demand for the segment’s products and services depends
on overall levels of oilfield drilling activity, which drives demand for spare parts, service, and repair for Rig Systems’ large installed base of equipment; and secondarily on drilling contractors’ and oil and gas companies’ capital
spending plans, specifically capital expenditures on rig refurbishments and re-certifications.

Wellbore Technologies

The Company’s Wellbore Technologies segment designs, manufactures, rents, and sells a variety of equipment and technologies used to perform drilling
operations, and offers services that optimize their performance, including: solids control and waste management equipment and services, drilling fluids, premium drill pipe, wired pipe, tubular inspection and coating services, instrumentation,
downhole tools, and drill bits.

Wellbore Technologies focuses on oil and gas companies and supports drilling contractors, oilfield service companies, and
oilfield equipment rental companies. Demand for the segment’s products and services depends on the level of oilfield drilling activity by oil and gas companies, drilling contractors, and oilfield service companies.

Completion & Production Solutions

The
Company’s Completion & Production Solutions segment integrates technologies for well completions and oil and gas production. The segment designs, manufactures, and sells equipment and technologies needed for hydraulic fracture
stimulation, including pressure pumping trucks and pumps, blenders, sanders, hydration units, injection units, flowline, manifolds and wellheads; well intervention, including coiled tubing units, coiled tubing, and wireline units and tools; onshore
production, including composite pipe, surface transfer and progressive cavity pumps, and artificial lift systems; and, offshore production, including floating production systems and subsea production technologies.

Completion & Production Solutions supports service companies and oil and gas companies. Demand for the segment’s products depends on the level
of oilfield completions and workover activity by oilfield service companies and drilling contractors, and capital spending plans by oil and gas companies and oilfield service companies.

The following table sets forth the contribution to our total revenues of our four reporting segments (in millions):



Years Ended December 31,201420132012Revenue:Rig Systems$9,848$8,450$7,077Rig Aftermarket3,2222,6922,138Wellbore Technologies5,7225,2115,184Completion & Production Solutions4,6454,3093,994Eliminations(1,997)(1,441)(1,199)Total Revenue$21,440$19,221$17,194

Sales from one segment to another generally are priced at estimated equivalent commercial selling prices; however, segments
originating an external sale are credited with the full profit to the Company. Eliminations include intercompany transactions conducted between the four reporting segments that are eliminated in consolidation. Intercompany transactions within each
reporting segment are eliminated within each reporting segment.

See Note 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K for financial information by segment and a geographical breakout of revenues and long-lived assets. We have also included a glossary of oilfield terms at the end of Item 1. “Business” of this Annual Report.

Influence of Oil and Gas Activity Levels on the Company’s Business

The oil and gas industry has historically experienced significant volatility. Demand for the Company’s products and services depends primarily upon the
general level of activity in the oil and gas industry worldwide, including the number of drilling rigs in operation, the number of oil and gas wells being drilled, the depth and drilling conditions of these wells, the volume of production, the
number of well completions and the level of well remediation activity. Oil and gas activity is in turn heavily influenced by, among other factors, oil and gas prices worldwide. High levels of drilling and well remediation generally spurs demand for
the Company’s products and services. Additionally, high levels of oil and gas activity increase cash flows available for oil and gas companies, drilling contractors, oilfield service companies, and manufacturers of oil country tubular goods
(“OCTG”) to invest in capital equipment that the Company sells.






In 2010, as the financial crisis of the preceding three years eased and oil prices recovered, order rates began
to improve across a broad array of rig equipment, with a particular focus on continued build out of the deepwater fleet. Each year 2011, 2012 and 2013 saw a further improvement in order rates as commodity prices remained at levels supporting
sustained capital spending by our customers. Global rig count increased 5% in 2014 compared to 2013, after falling by 3% in 2013 compared to 2012. During the second half of 2014 the global oil and gas industry entered a cyclical decline causing the
Company to experience a decline in new orders. Backlog for Rig Systems at December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, was $12.5 billion, $15.0 billion and $10.9 billion, respectively. Backlog for Completion & Production Solutions
at December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 was $1.8 billion, $1.6 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively.

The willingness of oil and gas operators to make
capital investments to explore for and produce oil and natural gas will continue to be influenced by numerous factors over which the Company has no control, including but not limited to: the ability of members of the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries (“OPEC”) to maintain oil price stability through voluntary production limits; the level of oil production by non-OPEC countries; supply and demand for oil and natural gas; general economic and political conditions;
costs of exploration and production; the availability of new leases and concessions; access to external financing; and governmental regulations regarding, among other things, environmental protection, climate change, taxation, price controls and
product allocations. The willingness of drilling contractors and well servicing companies to make capital expenditures for the type of specialized equipment the Company provides is also influenced by numerous factors over which the Company has no
control, including: the general level of oil and gas well drilling and servicing; rig day-rates; access to external financing; outlook for future increases in well drilling and well remediation activity; steel prices and fabrication costs; and
government regulations regarding, among other things, environmental protection, climate change, taxation, and price controls.

See additional discussion
on the current worldwide economic environment and related oil and gas activity levels in Item 1A. Risk Factors and Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Overview of Oil and Gas Well Construction Processes

Oil
and gas wells are usually drilled by drilling contractors using a drilling rig. A bit is attached to the end of a drill stem, which is assembled by the drilling rig and its crew from 30 or 45-foot joints of drill pipe and specialized drilling
components known as downhole tools. Using the conventional rotary drilling method, the drill stem is turned from the rotary table of the drilling rig by torque applied to the kelly, which is screwed into the top of the drill stem. Increasingly,
drilling is performed using a drilling motor, which is attached to the bottom of the drill stem and provides rotational force directly to the bit, or a top drive, a device suspended from the derrick that turns the entire drill stem, rather than such
force being supplied by the rotary table. The use of drilling motors and top drives permits the drilling contractor to drill directionally, including horizontally. The Company sells and rents drilling motors, drill bits, downhole tools and drill
pipe through Wellbore Technologies, and sells top drives through Rig Systems.

Heavy drilling fluids, or “drilling muds”, are pumped down the
drill stem and forced out through jets in the bit. The drilling mud returns to the surface through the space between the borehole wall and the drill stem, carrying with it the rock cuttings drilled out by the bit. The cuttings are removed from the
mud by a solids control system (which can include shakers, centrifuges and other specialized equipment) and disposed of in an environmentally sound manner. The solids control system permits the mud, which is often comprised of expensive chemicals,
to be continuously reused and re-circulated back into the hole.

Rig Systems sells the large “mud pumps” that are used to pump drilling mud
through the drill stem, down and back up the hole. Wellbore Technologies sells and rents solids control equipment; and provides solids control, waste management and drilling fluids services. Many operators internally coat the drill stem to improve
its hydraulic efficiency and protect it from corrosive fluids sometimes encountered during drilling, and inspect and assess the integrity of the drill pipe from time to time. Wellbore Technologies manufactures and sells drill pipe and provides drill
pipe inspection, coating, and “hard-banding” services.






The operations of the rig and the condition of the drilling mud are closely
monitored by various sensors, which measure operating parameters such as the weight on the rig’s hook, the incidence of pressure kicks, the operation of the drilling mud pumps, etc. Wellbore Technologies sells and rents drilling rig
instrumentation packages that perform these monitoring functions.

During drilling operations the drilling rig and related equipment and tools are subject
to severe stresses, pressures and temperatures, as well as a corrosive environment, and require regular repair and maintenance. Rig Aftermarket supplies spare parts and can dispatch field service engineers with the expertise to quickly repair and
maintain equipment, minimizing down time.

After the well has reached its total depth and the final section of casing has been set, the drilling rig is
moved off and the well is prepared to begin producing oil or gas in a process known as “well completion.” Well completion usually involves installing production tubing concentrically in the casing. Due to the corrosive nature of many
produced fluids, production tubing is often inspected and coated, services offered by Wellbore Technologies. Sometimes operators choose to use corrosion resistant composite materials or alloys, sold by Completion & Production Solutions.

From time to time, a producing well may undergo workover procedures to extend its life and/or increase its production rate. Workover rigs are used to
disassemble the wellhead, tubing and other completion components of an existing well in order to stimulate or remediate the well. Workover rigs are similar to drilling rigs in their capabilities to handle tubing, but are usually smaller and somewhat
less sophisticated. The Company offers a comprehensive range of workover rigs through Rig Systems. Tubing and sucker rods removed from a well during a well remediation operation are often inspected to determine their suitability to be reused in the
well, a service Wellbore Technologies provides.

Frequently, coiled tubing units or wireline units are used to accomplish certain well remediation
operations or well completions. Coiled tubing is a recent advancement in petroleum technology consisting of a continuous length of reeled steel tubing which can be injected concentrically into the production tubing all the way to the bottom of most
wells. It permits many operations to be performed without disassembling the production tubing, and without curtailing the production of the well. Wireline winch units are devices that utilize single-strand or multi-strand wires to perform well
remediation operations, such as lowering tools and transmitting data to the surface. The Completion & Production Solutions segment manufactures and sells various types of coiled tubing and wireline equipment and tools.






Rig Systems

The Company’s Rig Systems segment makes and supports the capital equipment and integrated systems needed to drill oil and gas wells on land and offshore.
The segment designs, manufactures, and sells land rigs, complete offshore drilling equipment packages, and drilling rig components that mechanize and automate many complex rig processes.

Equipment and technologies in Rig Systems include: power transmission systems, like drives and generators; substructures, derricks, and masts; pipe lifting,
racking, rotating, and assembly systems; pressure control equipment, including blowout preventers; cranes; and rig instrumentation and control systems.

Land Rig Packages. The Company designs, manufactures, assembles, upgrades, and supplies equipment sets to a variety of land drilling rigs,
including those specifically designed to operate in harsh environments such as the Arctic Circle and the desert. Our key land rig product names include theDrake Rig™, Ideal Rig™andRapid RigTM. The Company’s recent rig packages are designed to be safer and fast moving, to utilize AC technology, and to reduce manpower required to operate a rig.

Top Drives. The TDS™ Top Drive Drilling System, originally introduced by the Company in 1982, significantly altered the traditional drilling
process. The TDS rotates the drill stem from its top, rather than by the rotary table, with a large electric motor affixed to rails installed in the derrick that traverses the length of the derrick to the rig floor, eliminating the conventional
rotary table for drilling. Components of the TDS also are used to connect additional joints of drill pipe to the drill stem during drilling operations, enabling the use of three or four pre-connected joints of drill pipe at a time, compared to
traditional drilling with one joint of drill pipe. Additionally, the TDS facilitates horizontal and extended reach drilling.

Electric Rig Motors.The Company has helped lead the application of AC motor technology in the oilfield industry. The Company buys motors from third parties and builds them in its own facilities and is further developing motor technology, including the introduction of
permanent magnet drilling motors for use in top drives, cranes, mud pumps, winches, and drawworks.

Rotary Equipment. The alternative to using
a TDS to rotate the drill stem is to use a rotary table, which rotates the pipe at the floor of the rig. Rig Systems produces rotary tables as well as kelly and master bushings. In 1998, the Company introduced the Rotary Support Table for use on
rigs with a TDS. The Rotary Support Table is used in concert with the TDS to completely eliminate the need for the larger conventional rotary table.

Pipe Handling Systems. Pipe racking systems are used to handle drill pipe, casing and tubing on a drilling rig. Vertical pipe racking systems move
drill pipe and casing between the well and a storage (“racking”) area on the rig floor. Horizontal racking systems are used to handle tubulars while stored horizontally (for example, on the pipe deck of an offshore rig) and transport
tubulars up to the rig floor and into a vertical position for use in the drilling process.

Vertical pipe racking systems are used predominantly on
offshore rigs and are found on almost all floating rigs. Mechanical vertical pipe racking systems greatly reduce the manual effort involved in pipe handling. Pipe racking systems, introduced by the Company in 1985, provide a fully automated
mechanism for handling and racking drill pipe during drilling and tripping operations, spinning and torquing drill pipe, and automatic hoisting and racking of disconnected joints of drill pipe. These functions can be integrated via computer
controlled sequencing, and operated by a driller from an environmentally secure cabin. An important element of this system is the Iron Roughneck, which was originally introduced by the Company in 1976 and is an automated device that makes pipe
connections on the rig floor and requires less direct involvement of rig floor personnel in potentially dangerous operations. The Automated Roughneck is a microprocessor-controlled version of the Iron Roughneck.

Horizontal pipe transfer systems were introduced by the Company in 1993. They include the Pipe Deck Machine (“PDM”), which is used to manipulate and
move stored tubulars; the Pipe Transfer Conveyor (“PTC”), which transports sections of pipe to the rig floor; and a Pickup Laydown System (“PLS”), which raises the pipe to a vertical position for transfer to a vertical racking
system. These components may be employed separately, or incorporated together to form a complete horizontal racking system, known as the Pipe Transfer System (“PTS”).

Pipe Handling Tools. The Company’s pipe handling tools are designed to enhance the safety, efficiency and reliability of pipe handling
operations. Many of these tools have provided innovative methods of performing the designated task through mechanization of functions previously performed manually. Rig Systems manufactures various tools used to grip, hold, raise, and lower pipe,
and in the making up and breaking out of drill pipe, workstrings, casing and production tubulars including spinning wrenches, manual tongs, torque wrenches and kelly spinners.






Mud Pumps.Mud pumps are high pressure pumps located on the rig that force drilling mud down the drill
pipe, through the drill bit, and up the space between the drill pipe and the drilled formation (the “annulus”) back to the surface. These pumps, which generate pressures of up to 7,500 psi, must therefore be capable of displacing drilling
fluids thousands of feet down and back up the well bore. The conventional mud pump design, known as the triplex pump, uses three reciprocating pistons oriented horizontally. The Company has introduced the HEX™ Pump, which uses six pumping
cylinders, versus the three used in the triplex pump. Along with other design features, the greater number of cylinders reduces pulsations (or surges) and increases the output available from a given footprint. Reduced pulsation is desirable where
downhole measurement equipment is being used during the drilling process, as is often the case in directional drilling.

Hoisting Systems. Hoisting
systems are used to raise or lower the drill stem while drilling or tripping, and to lower casing into the wellbore. The drawworks, the heart of the hoisting system, is a large winch that spools off or takes in the drilling line, which is in turn
connected to the drill stem at the top of the derrick. The drawworks also plays an important role in keeping the weight on the drill bit at a desired level. This task is particularly challenging on offshore drilling rigs, which are subject to wave
motion. To address this, the Company has introduced the AHD™ Active Heave Drilling Drawworks which uses computer-controlled motors to compensate for the motion experienced in offshore drilling operations.

Cranes.The Company provides a comprehensive range of crane solutions, with purpose-built products for all segments of the oil and gas industry as well
as many other markets. The Company has a broad collection of crane brand names with international recognition, and a large staff of engineers specializing in the design of cranes and related equipment. The product range extends from small
cargo-handling cranes to the world’s largest marine cranes. In all, the Company provides over twenty crane product lines that include standard model configurations as well as custom-engineered and specialty cranes.

Motion Compensation Systems. Traditionally, motion compensation equipment is located on top of the drilling rig and serves to stabilize the bit on
the bottom of the hole, increasing drilling effectiveness of floating offshore rigs by compensating for wave and wind action. The AHD Drawworks, discussed above, was introduced to eliminate weight and improve safety, removing the compensator from
the top of the rig and integrating it into the drawworks system. In addition to the AHD Drawworks, the Company has introduced an Active Heave Compensation (“AHC”) System that goes beyond the capabilities of the AHD Drawworks to handle the
most severe weather. Additionally, the Company’s tensioning systems provide continuous axial tension to the marine riser pipe (larger diameter pipe which connects floating drilling rigs to the well on the ocean floor) and guide lines on
floating drilling rigs, tension leg platforms and jack-up drilling rigs.

Blowout Preventers. BOPs are devices used to seal the space between
the drill pipe and the borehole and, if necessary, to also shear the drill pipe itself to prevent blowouts (uncontrolled flows of formation fluids and gases to the surface). Rig Systems manufactures a wide array of BOPs used in various applications
from deepwater offshore vessels to land rigs. Ram and annular BOPs are back-up devices that are activated only if other techniques for controlling pressure in the wellbore are inadequate. When closed, these devices prevent normal drilling
operations. Ram BOPs seal the wellbore by hydraulically closing rams (thick heavy blocks of steel) against each other across the wellbore. Specially designed packers seal around specific sizes of pipe in the wellbore, shear pipe in the wellbore or
close off an open hole. Annular BOPs seal the wellbore by hydraulically closing a rubber packing unit around the drill pipe or kelly or by sealing against itself if nothing is in the hole.

In 1998, the Company introduced the NXTTMram type BOP which eliminates door bolts, providing
significant weight, rig-time, and space savings. Its unique features make subsea operation more efficient through faster ram configuration changes. In 2004, the Company introduced the LXTTMram
type of BOP, which features many of the design elements of the NXTTM, but is targeted at the land market. Over the past five years considerable focus has been placed on robustness and
reliability in the fundamental design of the equipment with extensive testing being performed in a new R&D facility opened in 2012. In 2013, the Company acquired the T3 BOP product line, further expanding its market offering of reliable,
field proven designs for land based drilling applications.

The ShearMaxTMline of low force BOP
shear rams released in 2010 add substantial tubular shearing capability to the Company’s line of pressure control equipment, including the capability to shear large drill pipe tool joints, previously unheard of in the industry. This innovative
shear blade design utilizes patented “Puncture Technology” to reduce the shearing pressures 50% or more and in some cases as much as five times lower. The ShearMax Blind shear provides a shear-and-seal design for drill pipe, while the
Casing and TJC shears address casing up to 16” OD and most tool joints up to 2” wall thickness, respectively.

Derricks and
Substructures.Drilling activities are carried out from a drilling rig. A drilling rig consists of one or two derricks; the substructure that supports the derrick(s); and the rig package, which consists of the various pieces of equipment
discussed above. Rig Systems designs, fabricates and services derricks used in both onshore and offshore applications, and substructures used in onshore applications. Rig Systems also works with shipyards in the fabrication of substructures for
offshore drilling rigs.






Offshore Drilling Equipment Packages.Rig Systems also provides the above major pieces of equipment in
fully integrated equipment packages for offshore drilling rigs. By purchasing an entire drilling equipment package customers reap the benefits of Rig Systems’ integrated package engineering and installation and commissioning expertise,
alleviating many of the potential problems of sourcing complex equipment that must work together from multiple vendors.

Customers and
Competition.Rig Systems sells directly to drilling contractors, rig fabricators, well servicing companies, pressure pumping companies, national oil companies, major and independent oil and gas companies, and also through distribution
companies. Demand for its products is strongly dependent upon capital spending plans by oil and gas companies and drilling contractors, and the level of oil and gas well drilling activity.

The products of Rig Systems are sold in highly competitive markets and its sales and earnings can be affected by competitive actions such as price changes,
new product development, or improved availability and delivery. The segment’s primary competitors are MHWirth; Aker Solutions; American Electric Technologies; American Block; AXON Energy Products; Bentec; Bomco; Canrig (a division of Nabors
Industries); Cavins Oil Well Tools; Cameron International; Den-Con Tool Company; Forum Energy Technologies; General Electric; Hitec Products; Honghua; Huisman; Liebherr; Parveen Industries; Omron Corporation; Rolls Royce; Siemens; Stewart &
Stevenson; Soilmec and Drillmec (a part of the Trevi Group); Seatrax; Tesco Corporation; Wärtsilä and Weatherford International. Management believes that the principal competitive factors affecting Rig Systems are performance, quality,
reputation, customer service, availability of spare parts and consumables, breadth of product line and price.






Rig Aftermarket

The Company’s Rig Aftermarket segment provides comprehensive aftermarket products and services to support a large installed base of land and offshore
rigs, and drilling rig components manufactured by the Company’s Rig Systems segment. The segment provides spare parts, repair, and rentals as well as technical support, field service and first well support, field engineering, and customer
training through a network of aftermarket service and repair facilities strategically located in major areas of drilling operations.

Spare PartsRig Aftermarket maintains an inventory of spare parts, manufactured by Rig Systems, across a global network of aftermarket service and repair facilities.

Technical SupportRig Aftermarket’s Technical Support Centers troubleshoot and resolve equipment needs for customers. Cross-disciplinary teams
work together with field service technicians and subject matter experts to keep customers’ rigs in operation and utilize web-based applications to record, manage, and resolve issues.

Field ServiceField service engineers actively support rig equipment and technologies on location. Based across a global network of aftermarket
service and repair facilities, field service engineers can be deployed to operating sites worldwide to resolve equipment issues, whether structural, mechanical, electrical, or software-related.

RepairRig Aftermarket overhauls, repairs, rebuilds, and recertifies equipment to quality assurance and OEM specifications using only OEM parts.

eHawk Remote SupportA subscription service available to customers, eHawk Support Centers provide fast issue response times. Using satellite and
computer technology, eHawk Support Centers can diagnose equipment status and work to handle issues remotely, reducing service personnel visits to the field. eHawk utilizes web-based applications to record, manage, and resolve issues.

Field EngineeringRig Aftermarket Field Engineering supports customers by providing rig-specific designs, modifications, and solutions as
needed. Services include rig surveys, proposal and design drawings, service manuals, and equipment installation.

Training Centers and Technical
CollegesRig Aftermarket Training Centers offering training for all equipment and technologies designed and manufactured by Rig Systems. Training centers offer a varied curriculum that incorporates hands-on experience, use of equipment
simulators, automated classrooms, and enhanced animations with cross-sectional cutouts.

Customers and Competition.Rig Aftermarket supports
land and offshore drillers. Demand for the segment’s products and services depends on overall levels of oilfield drilling activity, which drives demand for spare parts, service, and repair for Rig System’s large installed base of
equipment; and secondarily on drilling contractors’ and oil and gas companies’ capital spending plans, specifically capital expenditures on rig refurbishments and re-certifications.

The products of Rig Aftermarket are sold in highly competitive markets and its sales and earnings can be affected by competitive actions such as price
changes, new product development, or improved availability and delivery. The segment’s primary competitors are MHWirth; American Electric Technologies; American Block; AXON Energy Products; Bentec; Bomco; Canrig (a division of Nabors
Industries); Cavins Oil Well Tools; Cameron International; Den-Con Tool Company; Forum Energy Technologies; General Electric; Hitec Products; Honghua; Huisman Liebherr; Parveen Industries; Omron Corporation; Rolls Royce; Siemens; Stewart &
Stevenson; Soilmec and Drillmec (a part of the Trevi Group); Seatrax; Sparrows Offshore; Subsea Solutions; Tesco Corporation; Wärtsilä and Weatherford International. Management believes that the principal competitive factors affecting Rig
Aftermarket are performance, quality, reputation, customer service, availability of spare parts and consumables, breadth of product line and price.






Wellbore Technologies

The Company’s Wellbore Technologies segment designs, manufactures, rents and sells a variety of equipment and technologies used to perform drilling
operations, and offers services that optimize their performance, including: solids control and waste management equipment and services, drilling fluids, premium drill pipe, wired pipe, tubular inspection and coating services, instrumentation,
downhole tools, and drill bits.

The Wellbore Technologies segment focuses on oil and gas companies and supports drilling contractors, oilfield service
companies, and oilfield rental companies. Demand for Wellbore Technologies’ products and services primarily depends on the level of oilfield drilling activity by oil and gas companies, drilling contractors, and oilfield service companies.

Drill Pipe Products.The Company designs, manufactures, and sells a full range of proprietary and API drill stem products used for the drilling of oil
and gas wells. A drilling rig typically carries an inventory of 10,000 to 30,000 feet of drill pipe, which is consumed over time by the drilling process.

During the drilling process, motors mounted on the rig rotate the drill pipe, bottom-hole assembly, and drill bit. In addition to driving the drill bit, drill
pipe serves as the conduit for drilling fluids. The Company offers a broad line of premium drilling products designed for the drilling of extended reach, directional, horizontal, deepwater, and ultra-deep wells in both international and domestic
markets.

Voest-Alpine Tubulars (“VAT”). VAT is a joint venture between the Company and the Austrian based Voest-Alpine
Group. The Company has a 50.01% investment in the joint venture which is located in Kindberg, Austria. VAT owns a tubular mill with an annual capacity of approximately 380,000 metric tons and is the primary supplier of green tubes for our
U.S. based production. VAT is accounted for under the equity-method of accounting due to the minority owner having substantive participating rights.

Tubular Coating. The Company develops, manufactures and applies its proprietary tubular coatings, known as Tube-Kote®coatings, to new and used downhole tubulars and line pipe. Tubular coatings help prevent corrosion, which extends the life of tubular assets, and reduces expensive interruptions in production. In
addition, coatings are designed to increase the fluid flow rate up to 25%.

Tubular Inspection.Newly manufactured pipe may have serious defects
that are not detected at the mill, and pipe can be damaged during handling prior to use at the well site. Exploration and production companies have new tubulars inspected before they are placed in service to reduce the risk of tubular failures
during drilling, completion, or production. Used tubulars are inspected to detect service-induced flaws.

Tubular inspection techniques include
electromagnetic, ultrasonic, magnetic flux leakage and gamma ray. Inspection services are provided by mobile units at the wellhead as used tubing is removed from a well, and at fixed site locations.

Mill Systems and Sales.The Company engineers and fabricates inspection equipment for steel mills, which it sells and rents. The equipment is used for
quality control purposes to detect defects in the pipe during the high-speed manufacturing process. Each piece of mill inspection equipment is designed to customer specifications and is installed and serviced by the Company.

Machining Services.The Company offers a variety of machining services including: thread repair, tool joint rebuilding and sub manufacturing, providing
a “one-stop-shop” concept for its drill pipe customers.

Drilling and Intervention.The Company combines a wide array of drilling and
intervention tools with drilling, coring, borehole enlargement and other services. The broad spectrum of bottom hole assembly (“BHA”) components offered is the result of the strategic consolidation of key acquisitions.

The Company manufactures fixed cutter and roller cone drill bits and services its customer base in virtually every significant oil and gas producing region of
the world.

The Company designs, manufacturers and services a wide array of downhole motors which are capable of achieving higher rotary velocities than
can generally be achieved using conventional surface rotary equipment. The AGITATOR™ oscillation tool improves weight transfer to the bit and increases the boundaries of extended reach and horizontal drilling.

Through its Coring Services business line, the Company enables the extraction of actual rock samples from a drilled well bore and allows geologists to examine
the formations at the surface.

The Company is well positioned to address the sustained growth of intervention and well workovers with a comprehensive
offering of leading fishing and thru-tubing tools. We sell and rent tools to perform retrieval of stuck tools and remove debris, mill bridge plugs and other devices and manipulate well flow control.






Dynamic Drilling Solutions.The Company’s Dynamic Drilling Solutions combines product lines that
are focused on instrumentation, eTools, data-driven solutions, managed pressure drilling, and drilling automation and optimization. Dynamic Drilling Solutions generates, collects, aggregates, communicates, and analyzes drilling data to provide
our customers effective solutions for their well environments.

Instrumentation.The Company’s Instrumentation business provides drilling rig
operators real time measurement and monitoring of critical parameters required to improve rig safety and efficiency. The Company’s measurement and monitoring systems combine leading hardware and software technologies into an integrated drilling
rig package. Access of drilling data is provided to offsite locations, enabling company personnel to monitor drilling operations through a secure link.

Directional Sensors, Steering Tools, Magnetic Multi-shot Tools and Electromagnetic Measurement-While-Drilling Systems are offered by the Company. These
directional eTools provide measurements and store the data in memory or use a telemetry pathway to transmit downhole data to the surface. At the surface this data is analyzed to optimize well trajectory and improve the drilling rate-of-penetration.

Managed Pressure Drilling equipment and support services enable improved kick detection and help manage wellbore pressures during drilling to permit
accessing reserves in certain areas using chokes, manifolds, rotating control devices, continuous circulation systems, downhole sensors and optimized control systems.

Solids Control and Waste Management. The Company offers highly-engineered equipment, and services to separate and manage drill cuttings produced by the
drilling process (“Solids Control”). Drill cuttings are usually contaminated with petroleum or drilling fluids, and must be disposed of in an environmentally sound manner. Wellsite Services manufactures state-of-the-art patented solids
control equipment. Upon the separation of the drill cuttings Wellsite Services provides waste management, including transport and storage.

Fluids
Services.The Company is engaged in the provision of drilling fluid systems, drilling fluid products, completion fluids and other related services. Drilling fluids are used to maintain well bore stability while drilling, control downhole
pressure, lubricate and cool the drill bit, suspend and release cuttings, and transmit hydraulic energy to drilling tools and bit. Wellsite Services provides water and oil based drilling fluids

Portable Power.The Portable Power division provides rental generators, lighting and other accessories for use in the upstream oil and gas industry,
refinery and petrochemical operations, construction sites, events, disaster relief and other industries.

NOV IntelliServ.NOV IntelliServ is a
joint venture between the Company and Schlumberger, Ltd. in which the Company holds a 55% interest and maintains operational control. NOV IntelliServ manufactures wellbore data transmission products used to deliver high-speed communication up
and down the drill string.

Customers and Competition.Customers for Wellbore Technologies include major and independent oil and gas
companies, national oil companies, drilling and workover contractors, oilfield equipment and product distributors and other manufacturers, oilfield service companies, steel mills, and other industrial companies. The Company’s competitors
include: Baker Hughes; Drill Pipe Masters; Frank’s International; Future Pipe; Halliburton; Hanwei; Hilong; Patterson Tubular Services; Precision Tube; ShawCor; Schlumberger; Superior Energy Services; Texas Steel Conversion;
Vallourec & Mannesmann and Weatherford International, along with a number of smaller regional competitors.






Completion & Production Solutions

The Company’s Completion & Production Solutions segment integrates technologies for well completions and oil and gas production. The segment
designs, manufactures, and sells equipment and technologies needed for hydraulic fracture stimulation, including pressure pumping trucks and pumps, blenders, sanders, hydration units, injection units, flowline, manifolds and wellheads; well
intervention, including coiled tubing units, coiled tubing, and wireline units and tools; offshore production, including composite pipe, process equipment, floating production systems and subsea production technologies; and, onshore production
including surface transfer and progressive cavity pumps, positive displacement reciprocating pumps, pressure vessels, and artificial lift systems.

Completion & Production Solutions primarily supports service companies and oil and gas companies. Demand for Completion & Production
Solutions’ products depends on the level of oilfield completions and workover activity by oilfield service companies and drilling contractors and capital spending plans by oil and gas companies and oilfield service companies.

Coiled Tubing Equipment. Coiled tubing consists of flexible steel tubing manufactured in a continuous string and spooled on a reel. It can extend
several thousand feet in length and is run in and out of the wellbore at a high rate of speed by a hydraulically operated coiled tubing unit. A coiled tubing unit is typically mounted on a truck, semi-trailer or skid (steel frames on which portable
equipment is mounted to facilitate handling with cranes for offshore use) and consists of a hydraulically operated tubing reel or drum, an injector head which pushes or pulls the tubing in or out of the wellbore, and various power and control
systems. Coiled tubing is typically used with sophisticated pressure control equipment which permits the operator to perform workover operations on a live well. The Completion & Production Solutions segment manufactures and sells both
coiled tubing units and the ancillary pressure control equipment used in these operations. Currently, most coiled tubing units are used in well remediation and completion applications. The Company believes that advances in the manufacturing process
of coiled tubing, tubing fatigue protection and the capability to manufacture larger diameter and increased wall thickness coiled tubing strings have resulted in increased uses and applications for these products. For example, some well operators
are now using coiled tubing in drilling applications such as slim-hole re-entries of existing wells.

Wireline Equipment. The Company’s
wireline products include wireline drum units, which consist of a spool or drum of wireline cable, mounted in a mobile vehicle or skid, which works in conjunction with a source of power (an engine mounted in the vehicle or within a separate
“power pack” skid). The wireline drum unit is used to spool wireline cable into or out of a well, in order to perform surveys inside the well, sample fluids from the bottom of the well, retrieve or replace components from inside the well,
or to perform other well remediation or survey operations. The wireline used may be “slick line”, which is conventional single-strand steel cable used to convey tools in or out of the well, or “electric line”, which contains an
imbedded single-conductor or multi-conductor electrical line which permits communication between the surface and electronic instruments attached to the end of the wireline at the bottom of the well. Wireline units are usually used in conjunction
with a variety of pressure control equipment which permits safe access into wells while they are flowing and under pressure at the surface. The Company engineers and manufactures a broad range of pressure control equipment for wireline operations,
including wireline blowout preventers, strippers, packers, lubricators and grease injection units. Additionally, the Company makes wireline rigging equipment such as mast trucks, and skidded masts for offshore rig-up.

Stimulation Equipment. The Company’s stimulation products include fracturing pumps, acid units, frac blenders, frac control systems, sand
handling systems, combo units, hydration and chemical additive systems as well as services and parts. Additionally, the Company sells, services, and rents wellheads, frac trees, portable flow line, and well testing equipment.

Turret Mooring Systems.The Company designs and manufacturers Turret Mooring Systems and Spread Moored Systems, and other products for Floating
Production, Storage and Offloading (“FPSOs”) and other offshore vessels and terminals. A turret mooring system consists of a geostatic part attached to the seabed and a rotating part integrated in the hull of the FPSO, which are
connected and allow the ship to weathervane (rotate) around the turret during production.

Flexible Pipe Systems.The Company designs and
manufactures flexible pipe products and systems for the offshore oil and gas industry, including products associated with FPSO’s and other offshore production platforms, as well as subsea production systems including flexible risers, flowlines
and jumpers. The product range consists of flexible pipe solutions from 2” – 16”, designed to operate under very demanding offshore conditions in all parts of the world. The products remain flexible even under very high working
pressure, up to 1,000 bars, and at the same time they are able to withstand working temperatures from minus 50° centigrade up to +130° centigrade. Flexible pipe systems are superior to other pipe solutions in respect of flexibility, ability
to withstand different design conditions and capability to convey challenging mixtures of liquid and gaseous fluids. The Company’s products are qualified for use in water depths down to 2,000 meters. The Company also supplies a wide range of
additional equipment such as accessories and steel structures required in a given system configuration.






Fiberglass & Composite Tubulars.The Company designs, manufactures and markets filament-wound and
molded fiberglass pipe and fittings as well as spoolable fiberglass pipe. These products are used by a wide range of petroleum, petrochemical and other industrial fluid and gas processing industries; for service station piping systems; aboard marine
vessels, FPSOs and offshore oil platforms; and, are marketed as an alternative to metallic piping systems which ultimately fail under corrosive operating conditions. Some producers manage the corrosive fluids found in oil and gas fields by utilizing
composite or fiberglass tubing, casing and line pipe in their operations. The Company is a provider of high pressure fiberglass tubulars used in oilfield applications to prevent corrosion. The Company manufactures fiberglass pipe under the
Star™ brand, and was the first manufacturer of high-pressure fiberglass pipe to be licensed by API in 1992. Fiberspar, which is now part of the Company’s fiberglass business, manufactures and sells fiberglass-reinforced spoolable pipe to
the oil and gas industry. This fiberglass-reinforced spoolable pipe provides a reliable, corrosion-resistant, cost-effective solution for tubulars used during the production and transportation of oil and gas.

XL Systems.The Company’s XL Systems product line offers the customer an integrated package of large-bore tubular products and services for
offshore or deep onshore wells. This product line includes the Company’s proprietary line of wedge thread connections on large-bore tubulars and related engineering and design services. The Company provides this product line for drive pipe, jet
strings and conductor casing. The Company produces large-bore tubulars with a high-strength, high-fatigue Viper™ weld-on connector for use in deep-water and other environments where an extremely robust connector is needed. The Company also
offers service personnel in connection with the installation of all of these products.

Process and Production Technologies.The Company serves its
customers in various industrial and oil and gas markets by designing, manufacturing and distributing key products including pumping technologies (reciprocating, multistage surface, and progressive cavity pumps), process equipment (dynamic oil
recovery, water treatment, sand handling, separation and crude / gas handling), artificial lift solutions (stuffing boxes, drive heads, PCP, control boxes, polished rod accessories, and hydraulic pumping units), mixing and agitation equipment, heat
exchangers, pipeline products (closures, expanding gate valves, and plug valves) and general oilfield products (critical service hookups, pumping tees, and production BOP’s). These products are used by a highly diversified customer base
with presence in oil and gas and industrial markets, which include waste water treatment, mining, chemical processing, paper and pulp, agriculture, food and beverage, among others. The group supports its international market and customer base
through a mixed channel to market model, which includes both direct sales and separate partnership relationships.

Pumps & Expendables.
The Company designs, manufactures, and sells pumps and expendables that are used in oil and gas drilling operations, well service operations, production applications, as well as industrial applications. These pumps include reciprocating positive
displacement piston and plunger pumps and high pressure mud pumps. These pumps are sold as individual units and unitized packages with drivers, controls and piping. The Company also manufactures fluid end expendables (liners, valves, pistons, and
plungers). The Company offers popular industry brand names including: Wheatley, Gaso, National, Oilwell, MSW, and Omega reciprocating pumps.

Customers
and Competition.The primary customers for the products and services offered by the Completion & Productions Solutions segment include well servicing companies, major and independent oil and gas companies, and national oil
companies. Competitors include: Cameron International; Circor International; Corpro (a division of ALS); Dover; Drilquip; FMC Technologies; Forum Energy Technologies; GE Oil & Gas; Modec; SBM Offshore; Stewart & Stevenson; Technip;
Roper Industries; and Weir Group. There are also a large number of regional competitors and, in addition, the Completion & Production Solutions segment sells its products and services into highly competitive markets. Management believes
that on-site support is becoming an important competitive element in this market, and that the principal competitive factors affecting the business are performance, quality, reputation, customer service, product availability and technology, breadth
of product line and price.






2014 Dispositions, Acquisitions and Other Investments

On May 30, 2014, the Company completed the previously announced spin-off of its distribution business into an independent public company named NOW Inc.,
which trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “DNOW”. After the close of the New York Stock Exchange on May 30, 2014, stockholders of record as of May 22, 2014 (the “Record Date”) received one share of
NOW Inc. common stock for every four NOV common shares they held as of the Record Date. No fractional shares of NOW Inc. common stock were distributed. The transfer agent aggregated any fractional shares into whole shares, sold those whole shares in
the open market at prevailing rates and distributed the net cash proceeds, after deducting any taxes required to be withheld and brokerage charges and commissions, pro rata to each holder who would otherwise have been entitled to receive fractional
shares in the distribution. Our operating segments were realigned upon separation of NOW Inc., and as a result, all prior periods are presented on this basis. Results of operations related to NOW Inc. have been classified as discontinued operations
in all periods presented on Form 10-K.

During 2014, the Company made the following acquisitions:



AcquisitionFormOperating SegmentDate of TransactionIndustrial Rentals, LLCAssetWellbore TechnologiesMarch 2014Precision Coatings GroupAssetWellbore TechnologiesApril 2014NC Machine and Fabrication, Inc.AssetCompletion & Production SolutionsMay 2014Devin International, Inc. and Greene’s EnergiaServicos do Brasil, Ltda.StockCompletion & Production SolutionsJune 2014Condor Engineering and Manufacturing, LLCAssetCompletion & Production SolutionsJuly 2014Halliburton’s Surface Safety ValvesAssetCompletion & Production SolutionsAugust 2014Bakker Pipe-En Repair Shop Coevorden BV and GebrBakker Coevorden BVStockWellbore TechnologiesSeptember 2014J&M Machine, LLCAssetWellbore TechnologiesOctober 2014Artex Group, LLCAssetCompletion & Production SolutionsDecember 2014Profab Engineering, Pte. Ltd., Profab Services,Pte. Ltd. And PT Profab IndonesiaStockCompletion & Production SolutionsDecember 2014

The Company paid an aggregate purchase price of $291 million, net of cash acquired for acquisitions in 2014.

Seasonal Nature of the Company’s Business

Historically, activity levels of some of the Company’s segments have followed seasonal trends to some degree. In general, Rig Systems and Rig Aftermarket
have not experienced significant seasonal fluctuation, although orders for new equipment and aftermarket spare parts may be modestly affected by holiday schedules. There can be no guarantee that seasonal effects will not influence future sales in
these segments.

In Canada, Wellbore Technologies and Completion & Production Solutions typically realized high first quarter activity levels, as
operators take advantage of the winter freeze to gain access to remote drilling and production areas. In past years, certain Canadian businesses within Wellbore Technologies and Completion & Production Solutions have declined during the
second quarter due to warming weather conditions which resulted in thawing, softer ground, difficulty accessing drill sites, and road bans that curtailed drilling activity (“Canadian Breakup”). However, these segments have typically
rebounded in the third and fourth quarter. Wellbore Technologies and Completion & Production Solutions activity in both the U.S. and Canada sometimes increases during the third quarter and then peaks in the fourth quarter as operators spend
the remaining drilling and/or production capital budgets for that year. Wellbore Technologies and Completion & Production Solutions revenues in the Rocky Mountain region sometimes decline in the late fourth quarter or early first quarter
due to harsh winter weather. The Company’s fiberglass and composite tubulars business in China has typically declined in the first quarter due to the impact of weather on manufacturing and installation operations, and due to business slowdowns
associated with the Chinese New Year.

The Company anticipates that the seasonal trends described above will continue. However, there can be no guarantee
that spending by the Company’s customers will continue to follow patterns seen in the past, or remain the same as in prior years.






Marketing and Distribution Network

Substantially all of Rig Systems’ capital equipment and Rig Aftermarket’s spare parts sales, and a large portion of our smaller pumps and parts
sales, are made through our direct sales force and distribution service centers. Sales to foreign oil companies are often made with or through agent or representative arrangements. Products within Wellbore Technologies and Completion &
Production Solutions are rented and sold worldwide through our own sales force and through commissioned representatives.

The Company’s Rig Systems
and Rig Aftermarket segments’ customers include drilling contractors, shipyards and other rig fabricators, well servicing companies, pressure pumpers, national oil companies, major and independent oil and gas companies, supply stores, and
pipe-running service providers. Rig Systems supports land and offshore drillers. Demand for Rig Systems products depends on drilling contractors’ and oil and gas companies’ capital spending plans, specifically capital expenditures on rig
construction and refurbishment. Rig Aftermarket supports land and offshore drillers. Demand for Rig Aftermarket products and services primarily depends on overall levels of oilfield drilling activity, which drives demand for spare parts, service,
and repair for Rig System’s large installed base of equipment; and secondarily on drilling contractors’ and oil and gas companies’ capital spending plans, specifically capital expenditures on rig refurbishment and re-certification.
Rig Systems and Rig Aftermarket purchases can represent significant capital expenditures, and are often sold as part of a rig fabrication or major rig refurbishment package. Sometimes these packages cover multiple rigs, and often the Company bids
jointly with other related product and services providers, such as rig fabrication yards and rig design firms.

Wellbore Technologies’ customers are
predominantly oil and gas companies, drilling contractors, oilfield service companies, and oilfield rental companies. Demand for the Company’s Wellbore Technologies segment products and services primarily depends on the level of oilfield
drilling activity by oil and gas companies, drilling contractors, and oilfield service companies.

Completion & Production Solutions’
customers are predominantly service companies and oil and gas companies. Demand for the Company’s Completion & Production Solutions segment products depends on the level of oilfield completions and workover activity by oilfield service
companies and drilling contractors and capital spending plans by oil and gas companies and oilfield service companies.

The Company’s foreign
operations, which include significant operations in Canada, Europe, the Far East, the Middle East, Africa and Latin America, are subject to the risks normally associated with conducting business in foreign countries, including foreign currency
exchange risks and uncertain political and economic environments, which may limit or disrupt markets, restrict the movement of funds or result in the deprivation of contract rights or the taking of property without fair compensation.
Government-owned petroleum companies located in some of the countries in which the Company operates have adopted policies (or are subject to governmental policies) giving preference to the purchase of goods and services from companies that are
majority-owned by local nationals. As a result of such policies, the Company relies on joint ventures, license arrangements and other business combinations with local nationals in these countries. In addition, political considerations may disrupt
the commercial relationship between the Company and such government-owned petroleum companies. Although the Company has not experienced any material problems in foreign countries arising from nationalistic policies, political instability, economic
instability or currency restrictions, there can be no assurance that such a problem will not arise in the future. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding geographic revenue information.

Research and New Product Development and Intellectual Property

The Company believes that it has been a leader in the development of new technology and equipment to enhance the safety and productivity of drilling and well
servicing processes and that its sales and earnings have been dependent, in part, upon the successful introduction of new or improved products. Through its internal development programs and certain acquisitions, the Company has assembled an
extensive array of technologies protected by a substantial number of trade and service marks, patents, trade secrets, and other proprietary rights.

As of
December 31, 2014, the Company held a substantial number of United States patents and had additional patent applications pending. As of this date, the Company also had foreign patents and patent applications pending relating to inventions
covered by the United States patents. Additionally, the Company maintains a substantial number of trade and service marks and maintains a number of trade secrets. Expiration dates of such patents range from 2015 to 2034. The Company does not expect
significant adverse effects as patents expire.

Although the Company believes that this intellectual property has value, competitive products with
different designs have been successfully developed and marketed by others. The Company considers the quality and timely delivery of its products, the service it provides to its customers and the technical knowledge and skills of its personnel to be
as important as its intellectual property in its ability to compete. While the Company stresses the importance of its research and development programs, the technical challenges and market uncertainties associated with the development and successful
introduction of new products are such that there can be no assurance that the Company will realize future revenues from new products.






Manufacturing and Service Locations

The manufacturing processes for the Company’s products generally consist of machining, welding and fabrication, heat treating, assembly of manufactured
and purchased components and testing. Most equipment is manufactured primarily from alloy steel. The availability and price of alloy steel castings, forgings, purchased components and bar stock is critical to the production and timing of shipments.

Rig Systems provides drilling rig components, as well as complete land drilling rigs, and offshore drilling equipment packages. The primary manufacturing
facilities are located in Houston, Galena Park, Sugar Land and Pampa, Texas; McAlester, Oklahoma; Orange, California; Edmonton, Canada; Kristiansand, Stavanger, Sogne, Oslo and Molde, Norway; Etten-Leur, the Netherlands; Carquefou, France; Mexicali,
Mexico; Shanghai, China; and Ulsan, South Korea.

Rig Aftermarket provides comprehensive aftermarket products and services to support land rigs and
offshore rigs, and drilling rig components manufactured by Rig Systems. Primary facilities are located in Houston, Texas; Lafayette, and New Iberia, Louisiana; Aberdeen and Montrose, Scotland; Singapore; Dubai, UAE; Port Elizabeth and Cape Town,
South Africa; Macae, Brazil and Luanda, Angola.

Wellbore Technologies engineers, manufactures and assembles equipment and products which it rents and
sells to customers, and which it uses in providing services. Downhole manufactures at facilities in Houston and Conroe, Texas; Stonehouse and Manchester, U.K; Dubai, UAE; Macaé, Brazil and Singapore. Drill Pipe manufactures at facilities in
Navasota, Texas; Veracruz, Mexico; Singapore; Jiangyan and Tianjin, China; Batam Island, Indonesia and Abu Dhabi, UAE. Tuboscope manufactures tubular inspection and coating products for internal use and for resale in Houston, Texas, it also
renovates and repairs equipment at its manufacturing facilities in Houston, Celle, Germany and Buenos Aires, Argentina. Well Site Services manufactures the Brandt Solids Control product line in Conroe, Texas and Aberdeen, Scotland, and produces
shale shaker screens for use in solids / fluid separation process in facilities located in Conroe; Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; New Iberia, Louisiana; Leduc, Canada and Victoria, Brazil. IntelliServ buys drill pipe from Grant Prideco’s Navasota,
Texas facility and ships it to their facility in Provo, Utah where coax cable is installed. IntelliServ’s engineering team is located at the facility in Provo. Dynamic Drilling Solutions manufactures instrumentation and Etools from Cedar
Park, Austin and Stafford, Texas and Andoversford, U.K.

Completion & Productions Solutions integrates technologies for well completions and oil
and gas production. Pumps and production process equipment are manufactured at facilities in Houston, Odessa and San Angelo, Texas; Harvey, Louisiana; McAlester and Tulsa, Oklahoma; Manchester and Newcastle, England; Melbourne, Australia; Dubai,
UAE: and Buenos Aires, Argentina. Fiberglass and composite tubulars and fittings are manufactured at facilities in Houston, San Antonio, Burkburnett and Mineral Wells, Texas; Little Rock, Arkansas; Tulsa, Oklahoma; Wichita, Kansas; Geldermalsen, the
Netherlands; Betim, Brazil; Johor, Malaysia; Singapore and Harbin and Suzhou, China. The Company’s well intervention and stimulation equipment business brings together engineering and manufacturing divisions in the areas of coiled tubing,
nitrogen pumping, snubbing, pressure control, fracturing, cementing, wireline, and associated engineering services. These products are manufactured in Anderson, Houston and Ft Worth Texas; Lafayette, Louisiana; Duncan, Oklahoma; Aberdeen, Newcastle,
and Great Yarmouth, UK; Calgary, Canada; Dubai, UAE; Singapore; Perth, Australia; Minsk, Belarus; and Nievwpoort, NL; Flexible pipe for subsea applications is manufactured in Denmark and Brazil. Certain of the Company’s manufacturing facilities
and certain of the Company’s products have various certifications, including, ISO 9001, API, APEX and ASME.

Raw Materials

The Company believes that materials and components used in its servicing and manufacturing operations and purchased for sales are generally available from
multiple sources. The prices paid by the Company for its raw materials may be affected by, among other things, energy, steel and other commodity prices; tariffs and duties on imported materials; and foreign currency exchange rates. The Company has
experienced rising, declining and stable prices for mild steel and standard grades in line with broader economic activity and has generally seen specialty alloy prices continue to rise, driven primarily by escalation in the price of the alloying
agents. The Company has generally been successful in its effort to mitigate the financial impact of higher raw materials costs on its operations by applying surcharges to, and adjusting prices on, the products it sells. Furthermore, the Company
continues to expand its supply base throughout the world to address its customers’ needs. For 2012 through 2014, the Company witnessed flat to slight increases in steel pricing which was somewhat mitigated by improved sourcing and supply chain
practices. The Company anticipates flat to moderate decreases in steel pricing in 2015. Higher prices and lower availability of steel and other raw materials the Company uses in its business may adversely impact future periods.






Backlog

The
Company monitors its backlog of orders within its Rig Systems and Completion & Production Solutions segments to guide its planning. Backlog includes orders which typically require more than three months to manufacture and deliver.

Backlog measurements are made on the basis of written orders which are firm, but may be defaulted upon by the customer in some instances. Most require
reimbursement to the Company for costs incurred in such an event. There can be no assurance that the backlog amounts will ultimately be realized as revenue, or that the Company will earn a profit on backlog work. Backlog for Rig Systems at
December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, was $12.5 billion, $15.0 billion and $10.9 billion, respectively. Backlog for Completion & Production Solutions at December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 was $1.8 billion, $1.6 billion
and $1.3 billion, respectively.

Employees

At
December 31, 2014, the Company had a total of 63,642 employees, of which 9,102 were temporary employees. Approximately 741 employees in the U.S. are subject to collective bargaining agreements. Additionally, certain of the Company’s
employees in various foreign locations are subject to collective bargaining agreements. The Company believes its relationship with its employees is good.






