Item 1. Business

Overview

Fiserv, Inc. is a leading global provider of financial services technology. We
are publicly traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market and part of the S&P 500 Index. We serve approximately 16,000 clients worldwide, including banks, thrifts, credit unions, investment management firms, leasing and finance companies,
retailers, merchants and government agencies. We provide account processing systems; electronic payments processing products and services, such as electronic bill payment and presentment, card-based transaction processing and network services, ACH
transaction processing, account-to-account transfer products and person-to-person payments; Internet and mobile banking systems; and related services including document and payment card production and distribution, check processing and imaging,
source capture systems, and lending and risk management products and services. The majority of the services we provide are necessary for our clients to operate their business and are, therefore, non-discretionary in nature. Our operations are
principally located in the United States where we operate data and transaction processing centers, develop software, perform item processing and check imaging, and provide technology support. We also own a 49% interest in StoneRiver Group, L.P.
(“StoneRiver”), which is comprised of our former insurance businesses.

In 2011, we had $4.3 billion in total revenue, $953 million
in net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations and income from continuing operations of $491 million. Processing and services revenue, which in 2011 represented 82% of our consolidated revenue, is primarily generated from
account- and transaction-based fees under contracts that generally have terms of three to five years, and we have had high contract renewal rates with our clients. In 2011, 2010 and 2009, our international operations contributed 7%, 6% and 5% of
total revenue, respectively.

We have grown our business by developing highly specialized services and product enhancements, adding new
clients, and acquiring businesses that complement ours. In 2007, we acquired CheckFree Corporation







(“CheckFree”), the leading provider of electronic bill payment processing and presentment services and Internet banking solutions. The acquisition was the largest in our history, has
enabled us to deliver a wide range of integrated products and services, and has created new opportunities for growth.

We originally
incorporated in Delaware in 1984, and reincorporated as a Wisconsin corporation in 1992. Our headquarters are located at 255 Fiserv Drive, Brookfield, Wisconsin 53045, and our telephone number is (262) 879-5000.

The Markets We Serve

General

The market for products and services offered by financial institutions is experiencing continuous change. The financial industry
regularly introduces and implements new payment, deposit, lending, investment and risk management products, and the distinctions among the products and services traditionally offered by different types of financial institutions continue to narrow as
they seek to serve the same ultimate customers.

The growing volume and types of payment transactions and the increased focus on new channels
such as Internet banking and mobile banking have increased the data and transaction processing needs of financial institutions. We believe that financial institutions will need to continue to invest significant capital and human resources to process
transactions, manage information and offer innovative new services to their customers in this rapidly evolving and competitive environment. We believe that economies of scale in developing and maintaining the infrastructure, technology, products,
services and networks necessary to be competitive in such an environment are essential to justify these investments.

The number of financial
institutions in the United States has declined steadily at a cumulative annual rate of approximately three percent per year since 1985. Despite this consolidation, the number of customers and accounts, and the amount of deposits serviced by the
financial industry as a whole, has increased over the same period. Transaction growth, particularly in electronic payment transactions, has also continued to increase. In addition, our revenue is diversified and our focus on long-term client
relationships and recurring, transaction-oriented products and services has reduced the impact that consolidation has had on us. We also have clients that span the entire range of financial institutions in terms of asset size, and our 50 largest
financial institution clients represent less than 25% of our annual revenue.In recent years, many of our financial institution clients have finalized their spending decisions later in the year. As a result, we have seen, and expect to
continue to see, a larger percentage of our annual revenue occurring in the second half of the year.

We anticipate that demand for products
that facilitate customer interaction with financial institutions, including electronic transactions through the Internet or mobile devices, sometimes referred to as “digital channels,” will continue to increase, which should translate to
revenue opportunities for us. As a result, we believe that our sizable and diverse client base, combined with our position as a leading provider of non-discretionary, recurring revenue-based products and services, gives us a solid foundation for
growth. In addition, we believe that the integration of our products and services creates a compelling value proposition for our clients. Our operations are reported in the Payments and Industry Products (“Payments”) and Financial
Institution Services (“Financial”) business segments.

Payments

The businesses in our Payments segment provide financial institutions and other companies with the products and services required to process electronic
payment transactions and to offer their customers access to financial services through digital channels. Financial institutions and other companies have increasingly relied on third-party providers for those products and services, either on a
licensed software or outsourced basis, as an increasing number of payment transactions are completed electronically and as our clients’ customers seek the







convenience of 24-hour digital access to their financial accounts. Within the Payments segment, we primarily provide electronic bill payment and presentment services, debit and other card-based
payment products and services, Internet and mobile banking software and services, and other electronic payments software and services including account-to-account transfers and person-to-person payments. Our businesses in this segment also provide
investment account processing services for separately managed accounts, card and print personalization services, and fraud and risk management products and services.

Financial

The businesses in our Financial segment provide financial institutions
with the products and services they need to run their operations. Many financial institutions that previously developed their own software systems and maintained their own data processing operations now license software from third-parties or
outsource their data processing requirements by contracting with third-party processors. This has allowed them to reduce costs and enhance their products, services, capacity and capabilities. The licensing of software reduces the need for costly
technical expertise within a financial institution, and outsourcing through the utilization of service bureaus or facilities or resource management capabilities reduces the infrastructure and other costs required to operate systems internally.
Within the Financial segment, we provide banks, thrifts and credit unions with account processing services, item processing and source capture services, loan origination and servicing products, cash management and consulting services, and other
products and services that support numerous types of financial transactions.

Our Strategy

Our vision is to be a global leader in transaction-based technology solutions. Our mission is to provide integrated technology and services solutions
that enable best-in-class results for our clients. We are focused on operating businesses where we have: deep industry expertise that enables us to serve the market with high effectiveness; a strong competitive position, currently or via a clear
path in the foreseeable future; long-term, trusted client relationships which are based on recurring services and transactions; differentiated solutions that deliver value to our clients through integration and innovation; and strong management to
execute strategies in a disciplined manner. Consistent with this focus, we continue to operate our business in accordance with the following strategic framework:



•Portfolio Management. We expect to acquire businesses when we identify: a compelling strategic need, such as a product, service or technology
that helps fill a specific market requirement; an opportunity to change market dynamics; a way to achieve business scale; or similar considerations. We expect to divest businesses that are not in line with our market, product or financial
strategies.



•Client Relationship Value. We plan to increase the number and breadth of our client relationships by, among other matters: continuing to
integrate our products, services and sales groups; combining products and services to deliver enhanced, integrated value propositions; and improving the quality of our client service and support.



•Operational Effectiveness. We believe we can improve the quality of our client delivery while reducing our costs by using the opportunities
created by our size and scale. For example, we are using our consolidated buying power and shared utility structures to provide cost savings.



•Capital Discipline. We intend to make capital allocation decisions that offer the best prospects for our long-term growth and profitability,
which may include, among other matters, internal investment, repayment of debt, repurchases of our own shares or acquisitions.



•Innovation. Finally, we seek to be an innovation leader in all of our key markets, leveraging our assets and capabilities to be at the forefront
of our industry.

Principal Solutions and Services

Financial information regarding our business segments is included in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements on page 52.







Payments

Electronic Banking

Our electronic banking business is comprised of electronic bill
payment and presentment services, biller services, digital channel services, and other electronic payments services such as person-to-person payments and account-to-account transfers.

Electronic bill payment and presentment

Our principal electronic bill payment and presentment product,
CheckFree®RXP®, allows our clients’ customers: to manage household bills via an easy-to-use, online tool; to view relevant billing and payment information; to pay and manage
all of their bills in one place; to experience the same speed of payment they would normally have at a biller’s site; and to make convenient next-day payments to many of the companies with which they do business. We use our systems to process
the vast majority of the payment transactions that we handle, which enables us to improve our economies of scale. Once a consumer has accessed the system through a financial institution, he or she can elect to pay an electronic bill delivered by us
or can instruct the system to pay any individual or company within the U.S.

Biller

Our biller business provides expedited bill payment processing and electronic bill distribution services to companies that deliver substantial volumes of
bills to their customer base. We believe that consumers will continue to shift their financial transactions from traditional, paper-based methods to electronic methods if they have easy-to-access, easy-to-use, secure and cost-effective methods of
receiving and paying their bills electronically. Consumers access our electronic billing and payment systems by accessing a financial institution’s or a biller’s webpage, via www.mycheckfree.com or by using an application on a mobile
device. Additionally, consumers can make bill payments, including emergency or expedited payments, via the Internet or phone or at our nationwide walk-in bill payment locations. These diverse services allow customers of our clients to pay bills
wherever, whenever and however they feel most comfortable. Furthermore, because our biller clients are able to receive all of these services from us, we can eliminate the operational complexity and expense of supporting multiple vendor systems or
in-house developed systems. Our electronic biller services business also offers a host of club management and electronic financial transaction services within the health and fitness industry.

Digital channels

Our principal online consumer and business banking products for larger financial institutions are Corillian Online®and Corillian®Business
Online, platforms upon which we have built a number of software applications to support multiple lines of banking businesses. Using universal standards, Corillian Online and Corillian Business Online have been designed to be highly scalable to meet
the evolving needs of our clients. This structure enables our clients to deploy new services by adding and integrating applications, such as electronic bill payment and online banking solutions, to any Internet connected point-of-presence.

Our Mobiliti™product provides a variety of mobile banking and payments services, including balance inquiry, transaction history, bill payment, person-to-person payments and
transfers through a mobile device to our clients and their customers. It enables financial institutions to reach more consumers than via other mobile technologies because it supports all three mobile access modes: browser, application and text. In
the first quarter of 2011, we acquired Mobile Commerce Ltd. (“M-Com”), an international mobile banking and payments provider, to enhance our mobile and payment capabilities.

Person-to-person payments and other electronic transactions

In 2010, we introduced ZashPay®, a person-to-person payments service that enables the secure, electronic movement of money to and from U.S.-based bank accounts, typically within one to three
business days. Using







our existing bill payment network, a payment is originated directly from the sender’s bank account and is transmitted directly into the recipient’s bank account, utilizing the same
secure processes as an online banking transaction. ZashPay can be accessed via a Fiserv website, www.zashpay.com, or through the websites of participating financial institutions.

In September 2011, we acquired CashEdge, Inc. (“CashEdge”), a leading provider of consumer and business payments solutions
such as account-to-account transfer, account opening and funding, data aggregation, small business invoicing and payments and person-to-person payments. CashEdge’s person-to-person payments solution, Popmoney®, adds complementary and advanced features to our existing offering and expands the reach of our network of financial
institutions, consumers and small businesses that use the service. As of December 31, 2011, nearly 1,400 financial institutions have agreed to offer our person-to-person payments services.

Card Services

Our card services business is a leader in electronic funds transfer and provides a total payments solution through a variety of products and services. We offer ATM and point of sale PIN-based debit
transaction processing, signature debit processing, ATM driving and monitoring, private label and bankcard credit card processing, electronic benefits transfer switching, prepaid program development and management, and national and regional network
access. We own the ACCEL/Exchange®network and operate approximately 19,000 ATMs. Comprehensive integration with
our account processing products and services allows us to reduce costs and increase efficiencies for our clients through enterprise offerings in areas such as risk management and loyalty rewards. Our card services business has more than 4,300
clients including banks and credit unions of all asset sizes, resellers (via both business alliance and remarketer agreements), finance companies, independent sales organizations and merchant acquirers across the U.S. In 2011, we processed more than
10 billion debit and credit transactions, making us one of the largest financial transaction processors in the nation.

Output Solutions

Our
output solutions business provides clients with: electronic document management through our electronic document delivery products and services; card manufacturing, personalization and mailing; statement production and mailing; design and fulfillment
of direct mail solutions; forms distribution; laser printing and mailing; and office supplies.

Investment Services

We provide products and services to over 325 financial service organizations—including broker dealers, global asset managers,
investment advisors, banks and insurance companies—delivering financial planning, portfolio management, enhanced trading capabilities, models management, performance measurement, reporting services, billing, and post-trade processing
automation. Our fee-based investment management clients are typically sponsors or managers in the managed accounts and wealth management market that offer a variety of managed account programs to investors. We also support global institutional asset
managers and asset servicers which manage investments of institutions and high-net worth individuals. Our primary product is a real-time portfolio management and trading system used by nine of the top ten largest brokerage firms, based on assets
under management, and eight of the top ten largest asset managers offering managed accounts. Our market leading platform was used for more than 3.4 million accounts as of December 31, 2011. In addition, our acquisition of
AdviceAmerica, Inc. (“AdviceAmerica”) in 2010 extended our capabilities into front-office applications such as financial planning, customer relationship management and proposal tools that support the growing needs of financial advisors.

Risk Management

Our risk management business provides financial crime, compliance, anti-money laundering, fraud prevention, market surveillance and employee fraud detection products and services. Our offerings include
Fraud Risk Manager™, Fraud Detection SystemSM, FraudLink®and FraudGuard®.







Financial

We provide products and services to meet the financial technology needs of banks, credit unions, thrifts and leasing and finance companies. Many of the products and services that we provide are sold as an
integrated system to our clients and include account, item and lending processing as well as solutions from our Payments segment such as electronic bill payment and presentment, Internet and mobile banking, debit processing and network services and
person-to-person payments.

Account Processing

We provide integrated account servicing and management capabilities to our bank, thrift and credit union clients, as well as complementary value-added products and services. Account processing solutions
are the principal systems that enable a bank to operate and include systems that process customer deposit and loan accounts, an institution’s general ledgers, central information files and other financial information. These solutions also
include extensive security, report generation and other features that financial institutions need to process transactions for their depositors and other customers, as well as to comply with applicable regulations. Account processing solutions are
offered through online data transmission connections to our account processing centers, historically called “data centers” or “service bureaus,” as stand-alone licensed software for installation on client-owned computer systems,
or via a combination of both. More than one in every three financial institutions in the U.S. uses a Fiserv account processing system.

Although many of our clients contract to obtain all or a majority of their data processing requirements from us, the modular design of many of our software solutions allows clients to start with one
application and, as needed, add applications and features developed by us or by third parties. We support a broad range of terminals and other client-owned peripheral devices manufactured by a variety of vendors, which reduces a new client’s
initial conversion expenses, enhances existing clients’ ability to change equipment, and broadens our market. The principal account processing solutions used by our bank and thrift clients are Premier®, Precision®, Cleartouch®and Signature®. The Signature system is available both domestically and internationally. The principal account processing solutions
primarily used by our credit union clients are Acumen®, Advantage™, CharlotteSM, CubicsPlus®, CUSA®, DataSafe®, Galaxy®, OnCU®, Portico®, Reliance®, Spectrum®and XP2®.

Item Processing and Source Capture

Our item processing business
offers products and services to financial institutions and intermediaries. Our image-enabled solutions are offered as in-house or service bureau offerings to thousands of account processing and non-account processing clients. Our remote deposit
capture solutions are branded as Source Capture Solutions®and are offered on a common web platform. They
include ATM Source Capture™, Branch Source Capture™, Consumer Source Capture™,
Merchant Source Capture™, Mobile Source Capture™, Regional Source Capture™,
Remittance Coupon Source Capture™and Teller Source Capture™. Through the Fiserv Clearing Network, we provide complete check clearing and image exchange services. Other solutions include image archive with online retrieval,
in-clearings, exceptions and returns, statements and fraud detection. We also provide consulting services, business operations services and related software products that facilitate the transformation of our clients’ payments environments from
paper-based to electronic.

Lending Solutions

Our lending business offers products and services to financial institutions and intermediaries, including: loan origination systems, consumer and commercial lease and loan servicing products, and default
mitigation and business process outsourcing services; a mortgage loan servicing platform and loan origination and tracking systems; and portfolio analytical services.







Corporate Transactions

As noted above, in 2011, we acquired CashEdge and M-Com; in 2010, we acquired AdviceAmerica; and in 2009, we completed the sale of our loan fulfillment services business (“Fiserv LFS”) and the
sale of the balance of our investment support services business (“Fiserv ISS”).

Servicing the Market

The markets for our account and transaction processing services have specific needs and requirements, with strong emphasis placed by clients on
flexibility, quality, comprehensiveness and integration of product lines, service reliability, timely introduction of new products and features, cost effectiveness and service excellence. We believe that our financial strength and primary focus on
the financial services industry enhances our ability to meet these needs and service our clients. In addition, we believe that our dedication to providing excellent client service and support no matter the size of the client and our commitment of
substantial resources to training and technical support helps us to retain clients. For example, we conduct client training in technology centers where we maintain fully equipped demonstration and training facilities that contain equipment used in
the delivery of our services. We also provide on-site training services and online education to clients.

Product Development

To meet the changing technology needs of our clients, we continually develop, maintain and enhance our products and systems. In each of
2011, 2010 and 2009, product development expenditures represented approximately 9% of our total revenue. Our network of development and technology centers apply the expertise of multiple teams to design, develop and maintain specialized processing
systems. Our account processing systems are designed to meet the preferences and diverse requirements of the international, national, regional or local market-specific financial service environments of our clients. In developing our products, we
stress interaction with and responsiveness to the needs of our clients, including customization of software to meet client needs. We have adopted web services and service-oriented architecture principles in our software development practices so that
we and our clients can benefit from the efficient development of technology. We provide products and services that are designed, developed, maintained and enhanced according to each client’s goals regarding, among other things, service quality,
business development, asset and liability mix, and local market positioning.

Intellectual Property

We regard our software, transaction processing services and related products as proprietary, and utilize a combination of patent, copyright, trademark
and trade secret laws, internal security practices and employee and third party non-disclosure agreements to protect our intellectual property assets. The majority of our patents cover various electronic billing and payment innovations, other
financial software products or services, or aspects of our separately managed accounts services. We continue, where appropriate, to seek and secure patents with respect to our technology. We believe that we possess all proprietary rights necessary
to conduct our business.

Competition

The market for technology products and services in the financial industry is highly competitive. Our principal competitors include other vendors of financial services technology, data processing
affiliates of large companies, large computer hardware manufacturers and processing centers owned and operated as user cooperatives. In addition, certain existing and potential financial institution clients may have the ability to create their own
in-house systems. Some of these competitors possess substantially greater financial, sales and marketing resources than we do and have substantial flexibility in competing with us, including through the use of integrated product offerings and
through pricing. Competitive factors for our business include product quality, service reliability, product line comprehensiveness and integration, timely introduction of new products and







features, and price. We believe that we compete favorably in each of these categories. We expect competition to continue to increase as new companies enter our markets and existing competitors
expand their product lines and services. There has been significant consolidation among providers of information technology products and services to financial institutions, and we believe this consolidation will continue in the future. Additional
information about the markets in which we compete is provided in the segment discussion below.

Payments

Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. (“FIS”), Jack Henry and Associates, Inc. (“Jack Henry”) and Online Resources Corporation
compete with us most directly in our bill payment business. Western Union is our primary competitor in our biller-direct bill payment and walk-in payments businesses. A number of other companies compete with us in our card-based payment transaction
processing business, including First Data Corporation, MasterCard Incorporated and Visa, Inc. Certain existing and potential financial institution and biller clients also have the ability to develop and use their own in-house systems instead of our
products and services. And many companies that provide outsourced Internet finance solutions are consolidating, creating larger competitors with greater resources and broader product lines. Our investment services business competes primarily with
providers of portfolio accounting software and outsourced services and with in-house solutions developed by large financial institutions.

Financial

Our products and
services in the Financial segment compete in several different market segments and geographies, including with large, diversified software and service companies and independent suppliers of software products. This competition is intensified by the
efforts of vendors and consultants who encourage clients to establish client-operated data centers and the design and implementation of customized software solutions. We also compete with vendors that offer similar transaction processing products
and services to financial institutions, including FIS, Jack Henry and Open Solutions, Inc.

Government Regulation

Fiserv and its subsidiaries are generally not directly subject to federal or state regulations specifically applicable to financial institutions such as
banks, thrifts and credit unions. However, as a provider of services to these financial institutions, our operations are examined on a regular basis by state regulatory authorities and representatives of the Federal Financial Institutions
Examination Council, which is a formal interagency body empowered to prescribe uniform principles, standards and report forms for the federal examination of financial institutions and to make recommendations to promote uniformity in the supervision
of financial institutions. Because we use the Federal Reserve’s ACH network to process many of our transactions, we are subject to the Federal Reserve Board’s rules with respect to its ACH network. In addition, independent auditors
annually review many of our operations to provide internal control evaluations for our clients, auditors and regulators.

In addition, in
conducting our electronic commerce business, including our walk-in bill payment, prepaid card, online bill payment and Popmoney and ZashPay personal payment services, we are subject to various federal and state laws and regulations relating to the
electronic movement of money. In order to comply with our obligations under applicable laws, we are required, among other matters, to comply with annual reporting and licensing requirements, to implement operating policies and procedures to protect
the privacy and security of our clients’ information, and to undergo periodic audits and examinations.

In 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall
Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act was enacted (the “Dodd-Frank Act”). The Dodd-Frank Act introduced substantial reforms to the supervision and operation of the financial services industry, including introducing changes that: affect
the oversight and supervision of financial institutions; provide for a new resolution procedure for large financial companies; create a new agency responsible for







implementing and enforcing compliance with consumer financial laws; introduce more stringent regulatory capital requirements; and implement changes to corporate governance and executive
compensation practices. It also calls for a number of studies to be conducted and requires significant rule-making. The Dodd-Frank Act has generated, and will continue to generate, numerous new regulations that will impact the financial industry. It
is too early, however, to fully determine the overall impact of this complex legislation on us or our clients over the long term.

Employees

We have approximately 20,000
employees, many of whom are specialists in our information management centers and related product and service businesses. This service support network includes employees with backgrounds in computer science and the financial industry, often
complemented by management and other employees with direct experience in banks, thrifts, credit unions and other financial services environments. Our employees provide expertise in: programming, software development, modification and maintenance;
computer operations, network control and technical support; client services and training; business process outsourcing; item and mortgage processing; system conversions; sales and marketing; and account management.

None of our employees in the U.S. are represented by a union, and there have been no work stoppages, strikes or, to our knowledge, attempts to organize.
The service nature of our business makes our employees an important corporate asset. Although the market for qualified personnel is competitive, we have not experienced significant difficulty with hiring or retaining our staff of top industry
professionals. In assessing potential acquisition candidates, we emphasize the quality and stability of the prospective company’s employees.

Available Information

Our website address is www.fiserv.com. We are not including the
information provided on our website as a part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We make available free of charge (other than an investor’s own Internet access charges) through our website our annual
reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the Securities and
Exchange Commission.



