Item 1.  Business

Overview

Fiserv, Inc. is a leading global provider of financial services technology. We are publicly traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market and part of the
S&P 500 Index. We serve approximately 16,000 clients worldwide, including banks, thrifts, credit unions, investment management firms, leasing and finance companies, retailers, merchants and government agencies. We provide account processing
systems; electronic payments processing products and services, such as electronic bill payment and presentment, card-based transaction processing and network services, ACH transaction processing, account-to-account transfer products and
person-to-person payments; internet and mobile banking systems; and related services including document and payment card production and distribution, check processing and imaging, source capture systems, and lending and risk management products and
services. The majority of the services we provide are necessary for our clients to operate their business and are, therefore, non-discretionary in nature. Our operations are principally located in the United States where we operate data and
transaction processing centers, develop software, perform item processing and check imaging, and provide technology support. We also own a 49% interest in StoneRiver Group, L.P. (“StoneRiver”), which is comprised of our former insurance
services businesses.

In 2012, we had $4.5 billion in total revenue, $835 million in net cash provided by operating activities from continuing
operations and income from continuing operations of $597 million. Processing and services revenue, which in 2012 represented 83% of our consolidated revenue, is primarily generated from account- and transaction-based fees under contracts that
generally have terms of three to five years. We also have had high contract renewal rates with our clients. Our international operations contributed 7% of total revenue in each of 2012 and 2011and 6% in 2010.






We have grown our business by developing highly specialized services and product enhancements, adding new
clients, and acquiring businesses that complement ours, including leading providers of electronic bill payment processing and presentment services, internet and mobile banking solutions, and person-to-person payments, which has enabled us to deliver
a wide range of integrated products and services and has created new opportunities for growth.

We originally incorporated in Delaware in 1984
and reincorporated as a Wisconsin corporation in 1992. Our headquarters are located at 255 Fiserv Drive, Brookfield, Wisconsin 53045, and our telephone number is (262) 879-5000.

Corporate Transactions

On January 14, 2013, we acquired Open
Solutions Inc. (“Open Solutions”), a provider of account processing technology for financial institutions. Open Solutions serves over 3,300 clients worldwide, including more than 800 account processing clients located primarily in the
United States and Canada. Open Solutions’ primary account processing product, DNATM, is designed to enable financial institutions to more easily add and customize ancillary solutions using its applications feature. This acquisition advances Fiserv’s go-to-market strategies by
adding a number of products and services and by expanding the number of account processing clients to which we can provide a broad array of our add-on solutions. As noted below, in 2011, we acquired CashEdge, Inc. (“CashEdge”) and Mobile
Commerce Ltd. (“M-Com”), and in 2010, we acquired AdviceAmerica, Inc. (“AdviceAmerica”).

The Markets We Serve

General

The
market for products and services offered by financial institutions is experiencing continuous change. The financial industry regularly introduces and implements new payment, deposit, lending, investment and risk management products, and the
distinctions among the products and services traditionally offered by different types of financial institutions continue to narrow as they seek to serve the same ultimate customers.

The growing volume and types of payment transactions and the increased focus on new channels such as internet banking and mobile banking have increased the data and transaction processing needs of
financial institutions. We expect that financial institutions will continue to invest significant capital and human resources to process transactions, manage information and offer innovative new services to their customers in this rapidly evolving
and competitive environment. We believe that economies of scale in developing and maintaining the infrastructure, technology, products, services and networks necessary to be competitive in such an environment are essential to justify these
investments.

Our revenue is diversified, and our focus on long-term client relationships and recurring, transaction-oriented products and
services has reduced the impact that consolidation in the financial services industry has had on us. We also have clients that span the entire range of financial institutions in terms of asset size, and our 50 largest financial institution clients
represent less than 25% of our annual revenue. In addition, we believe that the products and services that we provide can assist financial institutions with the regulatory and economic challenges that they currently face by providing, among other
things, opportunities to reduce their costs, innovative products and services, and new sources of revenue.

We anticipate that demand for
products that facilitate customer interaction with financial institutions, including electronic transactions through the internet or mobile devices, sometimes referred to as “digital channels,” will continue to increase, which we expect to
create revenue opportunities for us. As a result, we believe that our sizable and diverse client base, combined with our position as a leading provider of non-discretionary, recurring revenue-based products and services, gives us a solid foundation
for growth. In addition, we believe that the integration of our products and services creates a compelling value proposition for our clients. Our operations are reported in the Payments and Industry Products (“Payments”) and Financial
Institution Services (“Financial”) business segments.






Payments

The businesses in our Payments segment provide financial institutions and other companies with the products and services required to process electronic payment transactions and to offer their customers
access to financial services through digital channels. Financial institutions and other companies have increasingly relied on third-party providers for those products and services, either on a licensed software or outsourced basis, as an increasing
number of payment transactions are completed electronically and as our clients’ customers seek the convenience of 24-hour digital access to their financial accounts. Within the Payments segment, we primarily provide electronic bill payment and
presentment services, debit and other card-based payment products and services, internet and mobile banking software and services, and other electronic payments software and services, including account-to-account transfers and person-to-person
payments. Our businesses in this segment also provide investment account processing services for separately managed accounts, card and print personalization services, and fraud and risk management products and services.

Financial

The businesses in our
Financial segment provide financial institutions with the products and services they need to run their operations. Many financial institutions that previously developed their own software systems and maintained their own data processing operations
now license software from third-parties or outsource their data processing requirements by contracting with third-party processors. This has allowed them to reduce costs and enhance their products, services, capacity and capabilities. The licensing
of software reduces the need for costly technical expertise within a financial institution, and outsourcing through the utilization of service bureaus or resource management capabilities reduces the infrastructure and other costs required to operate
systems internally. Within the Financial segment, we provide banks, thrifts and credit unions with account processing services, item processing and source capture services, loan origination and servicing products, cash management and consulting
services, and other products and services that support numerous types of financial transactions.

Our Strategy

Our vision is to be a global leader in transaction-based technology solutions. Our mission is to provide integrated technology and services solutions
that enable best-in-class results for our clients. We are focused on operating businesses where we have: deep industry expertise that enables us to serve the market with high effectiveness; a strong competitive position, currently or via a clear
path in the foreseeable future; long-term, trusted client relationships which are based on recurring services and transactions; differentiated solutions that deliver value to our clients through integration and innovation; and strong management to
execute strategies in a disciplined manner. Consistent with this focus, we continue to operate our business in accordance with the following strategic framework:



•Portfolio Management. We expect to acquire businesses when we identify: a compelling strategic need, such as a product, service or technology
that helps meet client demand; an opportunity to change industry dynamics; a way to achieve business scale; or similar considerations. We expect to divest businesses that are not in line with our market, product or financial strategies.



•Client Relationship Value. We plan to increase the number and breadth of our client relationships by, among other actions: continuing to
integrate our products, services and sales groups; combining products and services to deliver enhanced, integrated value propositions; and improving the quality of our client service and support.



•Operational Effectiveness. We believe we can improve the quality of our client delivery while reducing our costs by using the opportunities
created by our size and scale. For example, we are using our consolidated buying power and shared utility structures to create cost savings.






•Capital Discipline. We intend to make capital allocation decisions that offer the best prospects for our long-term growth and profitability,
which may include, among other matters, internal investment, repayment of debt, repurchases of our own shares or acquisitions.



•Innovation. Finally, we seek to be an innovation leader, utilizing our assets and capabilities to be at the forefront of our industry.

Principal Solutions and Services

Financial information regarding our business segments is included in Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements on page 53.

Payments

Electronic Banking

Our electronic banking business is comprised of electronic bill payment and presentment services, biller services, digital channel services, and other
electronic payments services such as person-to-person payments and account-to-account transfers.

Electronic bill payment
and presentment

Our principal electronic bill payment and presentment product, CheckFree®RXP®, allows our clients’ customers: to manage household bills via an easy-to-use, online tool; to view billing and payment information; to pay and manage all of
their bills in one place; to experience the speed of payment they might have at a biller’s site; and to make convenient next-day payments to many of the companies with which they do business. We use our systems to process the vast majority of
the payment transactions that we handle, which enables us to improve our economies of scale. Once a consumer has accessed the system through a financial institution, he or she can elect to pay an electronic bill delivered by us or can instruct the
system to pay any individual or company within the U.S.

Biller

Our biller business provides electronic billing and payment services to companies that deliver substantial volumes of bills to their customer base, such
as utilities, telephone and cable companies, and insurance providers, enabling our biller clients to reduce costs, collect payments faster, and provide customers flexible, easy-to-use ways to view and pay their bills. We believe that consumers will
continue to shift their financial transactions from traditional, paper-based methods to electronic methods if they have easy-to-access, easy-to-use, secure and cost-effective methods of receiving and paying their bills electronically. Consumers use
our electronic billing and payment systems by viewing or paying a bill through a financial institution’s bill pay application, use of a biller’s website, mobile application or automated phone system, www.mycheckfree.com or by paying in
person at one of our 25,000 nationwide walk-in payment locations at retail stores operated by our partners. These diverse services allow our clients’ customers to view and pay bills wherever, whenever and however they feel most comfortable.
Furthermore, because our biller clients are able to receive all of these services from us, we can eliminate the operational complexity and expense of supporting multiple vendor systems or in-house developed systems.

Digital channels

Our principal online consumer and business banking products for larger financial institutions are Corillian Online®and Corillian®Business
Online. Both built on the Corillian platforms, these software applications support multiple lines of banking businesses. Using universal standards, Corillian Online and Corillian Business Online have been designed to be highly scalable to meet the
evolving needs of our clients. This structure enables our clients to deploy new services by adding and integrating applications, such as electronic bill payment, person-to-person payments and online banking solutions, to any internet connected
point-of-presence.






Our MobilitiTMproduct provides a variety of mobile banking and payments services, including balance inquiry, transaction history,
bill payment, person-to-person payments and transfers through a mobile device to our clients and their customers. It enables financial institutions to reach more consumers than via other mobile technologies because it supports all three mobile
access modes: mobile browser, downloaded application for smart phones and tablets, and text message. In the first quarter of 2011, we acquired M-Com, an international mobile banking and payments provider, which has enhanced our mobile and payment
capabilities.

Person-to-person payments and other electronic transactions

In September 2011, we acquired CashEdge, a leading provider of consumer and business payments solutions such as account-to-account
transfer, account opening and funding, data aggregation, small business invoicing and payments, and person-to-person payments. CashEdge’s person-to-person payments solution, Popmoney®, brought complementary and advanced features to our legacy person-to-person payments solution, ZashPay®, and expanded the reach of our network of financial institutions, consumers and small businesses that use the service. In 2012, we combined ZashPay and Popmoney into
an enhanced offering under the Popmoney brand. Popmoney can be accessed through a Fiserv website, www.popmoney.com, through Fiserv’s mobile applications for iPhone®and AndroidTM, or through the websites and mobile banking applications of participating financial institutions. As of December 31, 2012, over 1,800 financial institutions have agreed to offer our
person-to-person payments services.

Card Services

Our card services business is a leader in electronic funds transfer and provides a total payments solution through a variety of products and services. We offer ATM and point of sale PIN-based debit
transaction processing, signature debit processing, ATM driving and monitoring, private label and bankcard credit card processing, electronic benefits transfer switching, prepaid program development and management, and national and regional network
access. We own the ACCEL/Exchange®network and drive approximately 21,000 ATMs. Comprehensive integration with
our account processing products and services allows us to reduce costs and increase efficiencies for our clients through enterprise offerings in areas such as risk management and loyalty rewards. Our card services business has more than 4,300
clients, including banks and credit unions of all asset sizes, resellers, finance companies, independent sales organizations and merchant acquirers across the U.S. In 2012, we processed more than 11 billion debit and credit transactions, making us
one of the largest financial transaction processors in the nation.

Output Solutions

Our output solutions business provides clients with: electronic document management through our electronic document delivery products and services; card
manufacturing, personalization and mailing; statement and coupon book production and mailing; design and fulfillment of direct mail solutions; forms distribution; laser printing and mailing; branded merchandise; and office supplies.

Investment Services

We provide
products and services to over 325 financial service organizations—including broker dealers, global asset managers, investment advisors, banks and insurance companies—delivering financial planning, portfolio management, enhanced trading
capabilities, models management, performance measurement, reporting services, billing, and post-trade processing automation. Our fee-based investment management clients are typically sponsors or managers in the managed accounts and wealth management
market that offer a variety of managed account programs to investors. We also support global institutional asset managers and asset servicers which manage investments of institutions and high-net worth individuals. Our primary product is a real-time
portfolio management and trading system used by nine of the top ten largest brokerage firms, based on assets under management, and each of the top ten largest asset managers offering managed accounts. Our market leading






platform was used for more than 3.8 million accounts as of December 31, 2012. In addition, our acquisition of AdviceAmerica in 2010 extended our capabilities into front-office
applications such as financial planning, customer relationship management and proposal tools that support the growing needs of financial advisors.

Risk Management

Our risk management business provides financial
crime, compliance, anti-money laundering, fraud prevention, market surveillance and employee fraud detection products and services. Our offerings include Fraud Risk ManagerTM, Fraud Detection SystemSM, FraudLink®and FraudGuard®. We also
provide solutions that align the measurements, processes and systems for institutions to execute on business plans, decisions and budgets, in addition to solutions that promote business efficiency through transaction matching, account reconciliation
and exception management.

Financial

We provide products and services to meet the financial technology needs of banks, credit unions, thrifts and leasing and finance companies. Many of the products and services that we provide are sold as an
integrated system to our clients and include account, item and lending processing as well as solutions from our Payments segment such as electronic bill payment and presentment, internet and mobile banking, debit processing and network services and
person-to-person payments.

Account Processing

We provide account servicing and management capabilities to our bank, thrift and credit union clients, as well as a complete range of integrated, value-added banking products and services. Account
processing solutions are the principal systems that enable a financial institution to operate and include systems that process customer deposit and loan accounts, an institution’s general ledgers, central information files and other financial
information. These solutions also include extensive security, report generation and other features that financial institutions need to process transactions for their customers, as well as to comply with applicable regulations. Account processing
solutions are offered through online data transmission connections to our account processing centers, historically called “data centers” or “service bureaus,” as stand-alone licensed software for installation on client-owned
computer systems, or via some combination of both. More than one in every three financial institutions in the U.S. uses a Fiserv account processing system.

Although many of our clients contract to obtain all or a majority of their data processing requirements from us, the modular design of many of our software solutions allows clients to start with one
application and, as needed, add applications and features developed by us or by third parties. We support a broad range of terminals and other client-owned peripheral devices manufactured by a variety of vendors, which reduces a new client’s
initial conversion expenses, enhances existing clients’ ability to change equipment, and broadens our market. The principal account processing solutions used by our bank and thrift clients are Cleartouch®, Precision®, Premier®, Signature®and TotalPlusTM. The Signature system is available both domestically and internationally. The principal account processing solutions
primarily used by our credit union clients are Acumen®, AdvantageTM, CharlotteSM, CubicsPlus®, CUnifyTM, CUSA®,
DataSafe®, Galaxy®, OnCU®, Portico®, Reliance®, Spectrum®and XP2®. In connection with the acquisition of Open Solutions, we also acquired an account processing platform, DNA, which
is a real-time account processing platform that serves banks, thrifts and credit unions.

Item Processing

Our item processing business offers products and services to financial institutions and intermediaries. Through the Fiserv Clearing Network, we provide
complete check clearing and image exchange services. Other solutions






include image archive with online retrieval, in-clearings, exceptions and returns, statements and fraud detection. We also provide consulting services, business operations services and related
software products that facilitate the transformation of our clients’ payments environments from paper-based to electronic.

Lending
and Global Payment Solutions

Our lending business offers products and services to financial institutions and
intermediaries, including: loan originations, servicing and default systems for auto, consumer, real estate and business lending; along with a full complement of services such as customization, business process outsourcing, education, and consulting
and implementation services. Our global payment solutions business provides solutions for ACH, treasury management, check capture, case management and resolution, float management, and enterprise content management to the financial services
industry. Our remote deposit capture solutions are branded as Source Capture Solutions®and are offered on a
common web platform.

Servicing the Market

The markets for our account and transaction processing services have specific needs and requirements, with strong emphasis placed by clients on flexibility, quality, comprehensiveness and integration of
product lines, service reliability, timely introduction of new products and features and cost effectiveness. We believe that our financial strength and primary focus on the financial services industry enhances our ability to meet these needs and
service our clients. In addition, we believe that our dedication to providing excellent client service and support no matter the size of the client and our commitment of substantial resources to training and technical support helps us to retain
clients. For example, we conduct client training in technology centers where we maintain fully equipped demonstration and training facilities that contain equipment used in the delivery of our services. We also provide on-site training services and
online education to clients.

Product Development

To meet the changing technology needs of our clients, we continually develop, maintain and enhance our products and systems. In each of 2012, 2011 and 2010, product development expenditures represented
approximately 9% of our total revenue. Our network of development and technology centers apply the expertise of multiple teams to design, develop and maintain specialized processing systems. Our account processing systems are designed to meet the
preferences and diverse requirements of the international, national, regional or local market-specific financial service environments of our clients. In developing our products, we stress interaction with and responsiveness to the needs of our
clients, including customization of software to meet client needs. We have adopted web services and service-oriented architecture principles in our software development practices so that we and our clients can benefit from the efficient development
of technology. We provide products and services that are designed, developed, maintained and enhanced according to each client’s goals regarding, among other things, service quality, business development, asset and liability mix, and local
market positioning.

Intellectual Property

We regard our software, transaction processing services and related products as proprietary, and we utilize a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, internal security practices
and employee and third party non-disclosure agreements to protect our intellectual property assets. The majority of our patents cover various electronic billing and payment innovations, other financial software products or services, or aspects of
our separately managed accounts services. We continue, where appropriate, to seek and secure patents with respect to our technology. We believe that we possess all proprietary rights necessary to conduct our business.

Competition

The market for technology
products and services in the financial industry is highly competitive. Our principal competitors include other vendors of financial services technology, data processing affiliates of large companies,






large computer hardware manufacturers and processing centers owned and operated as user cooperatives. In addition, certain existing and potential financial institution clients may have the
ability to create their own in-house systems. Some of these competitors possess substantially greater financial, sales and marketing resources than we do and have substantial flexibility in competing with us, including through the use of integrated
product offerings and through pricing. Competitive factors for our business include product quality, service reliability, product line comprehensiveness and integration, timely introduction of new products and features, and price. We believe that we
compete favorably in each of these categories. We expect competition to continue to increase as new companies enter our markets and existing competitors expand their product lines and services. Additional information about the markets in which we
compete is provided in the segment discussion below.

Payments

Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. (“FIS”), Jack Henry and Associates, Inc. (“Jack Henry”) and Online Resources Corporation compete with us most directly in our bill payment
business. Western Union is our primary competitor in our biller-direct bill payment and walk-in payments businesses. A number of other companies compete with us in our card-based payment transaction processing business, including First Data
Corporation, Total System Services, Inc., MasterCard Incorporated and Visa, Inc. Certain existing and potential financial institution and biller clients also have the ability to develop and use their own in-house systems instead of our products and
services. And, many companies that provide outsourced internet finance solutions are consolidating, creating larger competitors with greater resources and broader product lines. Our investment services business competes primarily with providers of
portfolio accounting software and outsourced services and with in-house solutions developed by large financial institutions.

Financial

Our products and services in the Financial segment compete in several different market segments and geographies, including with
large, diversified software and service companies and independent suppliers of software products. This competition is intensified by the efforts of vendors and consultants who encourage clients to establish client-operated data centers and the
design and implementation of customized software solutions. We also compete with vendors that offer similar transaction processing products and services to financial institutions, including FIS, Jack Henry and Harland Financial Solutions, Inc.

Government Regulation

Fiserv and its subsidiaries are generally not directly subject to federal or state regulations specifically applicable to financial institutions such as
banks, thrifts and credit unions. However, as a provider of services to these financial institutions, our operations are examined on a regular basis by state regulatory authorities and representatives of the Federal Financial Institutions
Examination Council, which is a formal interagency body empowered to prescribe uniform principles, standards and report forms for the federal examination of financial institutions and to make recommendations to promote uniformity in the supervision
of financial institutions. Because we use the Federal Reserve’s ACH network to process many of our transactions, we are subject to the Federal Reserve Board’s rules with respect to its ACH network. In addition, independent auditors
annually review many of our operations to provide internal control evaluations for our clients, auditors and regulators.

In addition, in
conducting our direct-to-consumer electronic commerce business, including our walk-in bill payment, prepaid card services, online bill payment and Popmoney personal payment services, we are subject to various federal and state laws and regulations
relating to the electronic movement of money. In order to comply with our obligations under applicable laws, we are required, among other matters, to comply with annual reporting and licensing requirements, to implement operating policies and
procedures to protect the privacy and security of our clients’ information, and to undergo periodic audits and examinations.

In 2010,
the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) was enacted. The Dodd-Frank Act introduced substantial reforms to the supervision and operation of the financial services






industry, including introducing changes that: affect the oversight and supervision of financial institutions; provide for a new resolution procedure for large financial companies; introduce more
stringent regulatory capital requirements; implement changes to corporate governance and executive compensation practices; and require significant rule-making. The Dodd-Frank Act also established a new federal interagency council called the
Financial Stability Oversight Council (“FSOC”) and a new federal bureau called the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”). The FSOC monitors and assesses “systemic risk” to the safety of the U.S. financial system
and coordinates the actions of the various regulatory agencies on those issues. The CFPB is empowered to conduct rule-making and supervision related to, and enforcement of, federal consumer financial protection laws. The Dodd-Frank Act has
generated, and will continue to generate, numerous new regulations that will impact the financial industry. It is difficult to predict the extent to which the Dodd-Frank Act, the FSOC, the CFPB or the resulting regulations will impact our business
or the businesses of our current and potential clients over the long term.

Employees

As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately 20,000 employees, many of whom are specialists in our information management centers and related
product and service businesses. This service support network includes employees with backgrounds in computer science and the financial industry, often complemented by management and other employees with direct experience in banks, thrifts, credit
unions and other financial services environments. Our employees provide expertise in: programming, software development, modification and maintenance; computer operations, network control and technical support; client services and training; business
process outsourcing; item and mortgage processing; system conversions; sales and marketing; and account management.

None of our employees in
the U.S. are represented by a union, and there have been no work stoppages, strikes or, to our knowledge, attempts to organize. The service nature of our business makes our employees an important corporate asset. Although the market for qualified
personnel is competitive, we have not experienced significant difficulty with hiring or retaining our staff of top industry professionals. In assessing a potential acquisition candidate, we emphasize the quality and stability of its employees.

Available Information

Our
website address is www.fiserv.com. We are not including the information provided on our website as a part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We make available free of charge (other than an investor’s own
internet access charges) through our website our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material
with, or furnish such material to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.

