Item 1. Business

Overview

We were formed through the combination of two major
regional data processing firms that began as the data processing operations of their parent financial institutions. Since we began, we have grown by developing highly specialized services and product enhancements, adding new clients, and acquiring
businesses that complement ours. In 2007, we acquired CheckFree Corporation (“CheckFree”), a leading provider of electronic commerce services and products, including electronic bill payment and Internet banking. The acquisition was the
largest in our history and has enabled us to deliver a wide range of integrated products and services and created new







opportunities for growth. We originally incorporated in Delaware in 1984, and reincorporated as a Wisconsin corporation in 1992. Our headquarters are located at 255 Fiserv Drive, Brookfield,
Wisconsin 53045, and our telephone number is (262) 879-5000.

The Markets We Serve

General

The market
for products and services offered by financial institutions is experiencing continuous change. The financial industry regularly introduces and implements new payment, deposit, lending, investment and risk management products, and the distinctions
among financial services traditionally offered by banking, thrift and credit union organizations continue to narrow as different types of entities seek to serve the same ultimate customers.

The growing volume and types of transactions and payment mechanisms have increased the data processing and other service needs of financial
institutions. We believe that financial institutions will be required to continue to invest significant capital and human resources to process transactions and manage information in this rapidly evolving environment. In addition, we believe that
economies of scale in developing and maintaining the necessary products and services and in conducting data processing operations are essential to justify the necessary levels of expenditures and commitment of human resources.

The number of financial institutions in the United States continues to decline as a result of the current state of the economy as well as
other market and regulatory pressures. Consolidation has not, however, resulted in a material reduction in the number of customers or financial accounts serviced by the financial industry as a whole. Our focus on long-term client relationships and
recurring, transaction-oriented products and services has reduced the impact that consolidation has on us and our revenue is diversified. Our 50 largest financial institution clients represent less than one quarter of our annual revenue, and our
remaining revenue is spread across the balance of our client base. Finally, we have clients that span the entire range of financial institutions in terms of asset size, and we typically enter into multi-year agreements.

We anticipate that demand for products that facilitate electronic transactions will continue to increase, which should translate to revenue
opportunities for us. As a result, we believe that our sizable and diverse client base combined with our position as a leading provider of non-discretionary, recurring revenue-based products and services gives us a solid foundation for growth. Our
ongoing operations are reported in the Financial Institution Services (“Financial”) and Payments and Industry Products (“Payments”) business segments.

Financial

The businesses in our Financial segment provide financial
institutions with the products and services they need to run their banking operations. Many financial institutions that previously developed their own software systems and maintained their own data processing operations have outsourced their data
processing requirements by licensing software from third-parties or by contracting with third-party processors. This has allowed them to reduce costs and enhance their products and services. Outsourcing can involve the licensing of software, which
reduces the need for costly technical expertise within a financial institution, or the utilization of service bureaus, facilities management or resource management capabilities, which can enhance capacity and capabilities. Within the Financial
segment, we provide banks, thrifts and credit unions with account processing services, item processing services, loan origination and servicing products, cash management and consulting services, and other products and services that support numerous
types of financial transactions.

Payments

The businesses in our Payments segment primarily provide electronic bill payment and settlement, electronic funds transfer, and debit processing products and services to meet the electronic transaction
processing







needs of the financial services industry. Our businesses in this segment also provide card and print personalization services, Internet banking, investment account processing services for
separately managed accounts, and fraud and risk management products and services. We believe that the integration of our products and services creates a compelling value proposition for our clients.

Corporate Transactions

In
2009, we completed the sale of our Loan Fulfillment Services business (“Fiserv LFS”) and the sale of the balance of our investment support services business (“Fiserv ISS”). In 2008, we completed the sale of a majority of our
health businesses (“Fiserv Health”) to UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc. for approximately $480 million, net of income taxes and transaction costs, as well as the first of the two transactions to dispose of Fiserv ISS by selling Fiserv Trust
Company and the accounts of our institutional retirement plan and advisor services operations to TD AMERITRADE Online Holdings, Inc. for approximately $200 million, net of income taxes and transaction costs. We also completed the sale of a 51%
interest in substantially all of the businesses in our Insurance segment (“Fiserv Insurance”) to Trident IV, LP.

Our Strategy

Our vision is to be a global leader in transaction-based technology solutions. Our mission is to provide integrated
technology and services solutions which enable best-in-class results for our clients. To meet these goals, we continue to implement a series of strategic initiatives that we refer to as “Fiserv 2.0.” We are focused on operating
businesses where we have: deep industry expertise that enables us to serve the market with high effectiveness; a strong competitive position, currently or via a clear path in the foreseeable future; long-term, trusted, ongoing client relationships
which are not based on one-time transactions; differentiated solutions that deliver higher-than-normal value to our clients through integration and innovation; and strong management to execute strategies in a disciplined manner. Consistent with this
focus, we have implemented and continue to execute the following strategic platforms:

Enhanced Client Relationship
Value. We plan to increase the number and breadth of our client relationships by, among other matters, continuing to integrate our product and services groups, bundling products and services to deliver improved value propositions, and
streamlining our service and support processes.

Acquisitions. We expect to acquire businesses when we identify: a
compelling strategic need, such as a product, service or technology that helps fill a specific market requirement; an opportunity to change market dynamics; a way to achieve business scale; or some similar consideration.

Innovation. We seek to be an innovation leader in all of our key markets, leveraging our assets and capabilities to be at the
forefront of our markets.

Operational Excellence. We believe we can improve our performance by using the opportunities
created by our size and scale. For example, we are using our consolidated buying power and shared utility structures to provide savings.

Capital Discipline. Finally, we intend to make capital allocation decisions that offer the best prospects for our long-term growth and profitability, which may include, among other matters,
internal investment, repayment of debt, repurchases of our own shares, capital improvements or acquisitions.

Principal Solutions and
Services

Financial information regarding our business segments is included in Note 9 to the consolidated financial
statements on page 51.







Financial

We provide products and services to meet the financial technology needs of banks, credit unions, thrift and savings institutions, and leasing and finance companies. Many of the products and services that
we provide are sold as an integrated solution to our clients and include account, lending, and payments processing.

Account Processing

We provide integrated account servicing and management information functions for our bank, thrift and credit union
clients, as well as ancillary value-added products and services that complement the account processing solutions. Account processing solutions are the principal systems that enable a bank to operate and include systems that process customer deposit
and loan accounts, an institution’s general ledgers, central information files and other financial information. These solutions also include extensive security, report generation and other features that financial institutions need to process
transactions for their depositors and other customers, as well as to meet their regulatory compliance requirements and their own management information needs. Account processing solutions are offered through online data transmission connections to
our data processing centers, often called “service bureaus,” or as stand-alone, in-house licensed software for installation on client-owned computer systems. Third party data processing centers also license our software for use in
providing services to their clients.

While many of our clients contract to obtain all or a majority of their data processing
requirements from us, the modular design of many of our service bureau and software solutions allows clients to start with one application and, as needed, add applications and features developed by us or by third parties. We support a broad range of
terminals and other client-owned peripheral devices manufactured by a variety of vendors. This support capability reduces our clients’ initial conversion expenses, enhances existing clients’ ability to change equipment and broadens our
market.



•Bank and Thrift Account Processing Solutions. The principal service bureau solutions used by banks, thrifts and savings institutions are:
Premier, Signature, Cleartouch, Source One and Precision. We also offer in-house licensed software solutions to our banking clients, including Premier, Signature and Precision. The Signature system is available both domestically and internationally.



•Credit Union Account Processing Solutions. The principal account processing solutions primarily used by credit unions are: Acumen, Advantage,
Charlotte, CUBE, CubicsPlus, CUSA, DataSafe, Galaxy, OnCU, Portico, Reliance, Spectrum, and XP2. These solutions are offered in a service bureau environment, as an in-house licensed software system or in both delivery modes.

Item Processing

We offer item processing solutions to financial institutions and other financial intermediaries. We provide item processing and imaging systems via in-house solutions or in a service bureau environment to
account processing clients as well as to those who do not utilize our account processing systems. Our item processing services include source capture solutions via a web-based platform for check image capture at branch, merchant, consumer, and ATM
locations. Through the Fiserv Clearing Network, we provide complete check clearing and image exchange services. We provide image archive services with online retrieval and full disaster backup, and a number of check imaging products that enable
financial institutions to leverage the processes provided for in the Check Clearing Act of the 21st Century. Our ACH software, PEP+®, enables payments to be originated and received through the ACH system, and, together with our PEP+reACH

TM

product, allows returned checks, checks at the point-of-sale, and checks sent to a lockbox to be converted to
electronic payments. Our account reconciliation software, ARP/SMS

TM

, is an online, real-time positive pay and reconcilement system that enables clients to monitor deposits and identify duplicate items, which reduces their exposure to check fraud and helps them manage electronic check conversion. Our
compliance solutions enable financial institutions, corporations and government agencies to maintain compliance with state and federal regulations applicable to them. We also







provide consulting services, business operations services and software products that facilitate the transformation of our clients’ payments environment. We enhance a client’s ability to
achieve its goals by enabling it to identify, select and implement the most effective and cost-efficient strategies. Finally, we offer traditional item processing services, including image capture, proof of deposit, in-clearings, statements,
exception and return processing and fraud detection.

Lending Solutions

Our lending business offers a variety of products and services to financial institutions and other financial intermediaries, including: loan
origination systems, consumer and commercial lease and loan servicing products, and default mitigation and business process outsourcing services; a mortgage loan servicing platform and loan origination and tracking systems; and portfolio analytical
services.

Payments

E-Banking

Our e-banking business is comprised of our online bill payment products and our online banking and
cash management products. Financial institutions can offer our bill payment services to consumers either through a hosted application or through various protocols that link online banking applications to our internal billing and payment system.
These systems allow our clients’ customers to: manage household bills via an easy-to-use, online tool; view relevant billing and payment information; pay and manage all of their bills at one location; experience the same speed of payment they
would normally have at a biller’s site; and conveniently make next-day payments to many of the companies with which they do business. We use our platform to process the vast majority of the payment transactions that we process, which enables us
to improve our economies of scale. Once a consumer has accessed the system through a financial institution, he or she can elect to pay an electronic bill delivered by us or can instruct the system to pay any individual or company within the United
States. In 2009, we processed more than 1.3 billion online bill payment transactions.

Our principal
online consumer and business banking product is VoyagerTM,
a software platform upon which we have built a number of software applications to support multiple lines of banking businesses. Using universal standards, Voyager has been designed to be highly scalable to meet the evolving needs of our clients.
This structure enables our clients to deploy new Internet-based financial services by adding applications to our platform at any time and by integrating future applications to any Internet connected point-of-presence. We also provide a series of
treasury management solutions, including online business banking, commercial cash management, remote deposit, and corporate data exchange, under our BANKLINK®brand.

Our Mobile Money product provides a
variety of mobile banking and payments services, including balance inquiry, transaction history, bill payment and transfers, through a mobile device to our clients and their customers. It enables financial institutions to reach more consumers via
the mobile channel than any other single technology solution because it supports all three mobile access modes: browser, text banking, and mobile application.

Output Solutions

Our output solutions business provides clients with:
electronic document management through our electronic document delivery products and services; card manufacturing, personalization and mailing; statement production and mailing; design and fulfillment of direct mail solutions; forms distribution;
laser printing and mailing; and office supplies.

Biller Business

We believe that consumers will continue to shift their financial transactions from traditional paper-based methods to electronic methods if
they have easy-to-access, easy-to-use, secure and cost-effective methods of







receiving and paying their bills electronically. In 2009, through our electronic biller services business, we delivered over 320 million electronic bills to consumers through our various
distribution channels. Consumers access our electronic billing and payment solutions via numerous hosted channels, including through a financial institution’s Internet portal, through the billers’ Internet sites, and through our biller
services internet portal, www.mycheckfree.com. Additionally, consumers can make bill payments, including emergency or expedited payments, through our agent-assisted, Internet or interactive voice response phone tools and at our nationwide walk-in
bill payment locations. These diverse services allow the customers of our clients to pay bills wherever and however they feel most comfortable. Furthermore, because our biller clients are able to receive all these services from Fiserv, we can
eliminate the operational complexity and expense of supporting multiple vendor solutions or in-house developed solutions. Our electronic biller services business also offers a host of club management and electronic financial transaction services
within the health and fitness industry.

Card Services

Fiserv EFT, a leader in the electronic funds transfer marketplace, provides a total payments solution through a variety of products and services. We offer ATM and point of sale PIN-based debit transaction
processing, signature debit processing, ATM driving and monitoring, electronic benefits transfer switching and national and regional network access. We own the ACCEL/Exchange Network and operate approximately 20,000 ATMs. Comprehensive integration
with our account processing products and services allows us to drive down costs and leverage efficiencies for our clients through enterprise offerings in areas such as risk management and loyalty rewards. Fiserv EFT’s clients include more than
2,900 banks and credit unions of all asset sizes, resellers (via both business alliance and remarketer agreements), independent sales organizations and merchant acquirers across the United States. In 2009, we processed over seven billion ATM and
debit transactions, making us one of the largest financial transaction processors in the nation.

Our feature-rich credit
products and services fulfill a wide range of bank card, retail, commercial and consumer credit processing requirements through an integrated, full-service credit management solution that utilizes a globally recognized processing
platform. Our credit processing system provides credit decisioning, authorization processing, online cardholder account management, customer service case management, letters, card production, statements, targeted marketing programs,
collections, and recovery management.

Investment Services

We provide a range of technology platforms and software solutions which assist over 325 firms, including broker dealers, global asset managers, investment advisors, banks and insurance companies, to
deliver portfolio management, enhanced trading solutions, performance measurement, reporting services, corporate actions, billing, and trading automation to their clients. Our fee-based investment management clients are typically sponsors or
managers in the managed accounts and wealth management market that offer separately managed accounts, unified managed accounts, mutual fund advisory accounts, and investment management products; or global institutional money managers, managing
investments of institutions and high net worth individuals. Our primary product is a real-time portfolio management and trading system used by nine of the top ten largest brokerage firms, based on assets under management, and eight of the top ten
largest asset managers offering managed accounts. The number of accounts using our market leading platform topped three million for the first time in 2009.

Risk Management

Our risk management business provides a suite of products
and services, including financial crime, compliance, anti-money laundering, fraud prevention, market surveillance and employee fraud detection solutions. Our offerings in this market include Fiserv KRM, Fraud Manager, Fraud Detection System,
Fraudlink, and Fraudguard.







Servicing the Market

Our mission is to provide integrated technology and services solutions that enable best-in-class results for our clients. The markets for our account and transaction processing services have specific
needs and requirements, with strong emphasis placed by clients on flexibility, quality, comprehensiveness and integration of product lines, service reliability, timely introduction of new products and features, cost effectiveness, and service
excellence. We believe that our financial strength and primary focus on the financial services industry enhances our ability to meet these needs and service our clients. In addition, we believe that our dedication to providing excellent client
service and support no matter the size of the client and our commitment of substantial resources to training and technical support helps us to retain clients. For example, we conduct client training in technology centers, where we maintain fully
equipped demonstration and training facilities that contain equipment used in the delivery of our services. We also provide on-site training services and online education to clients.

Product Development

To meet the changing technology needs of our clients,
we continually develop, maintain and enhance our products and systems. In 2009, 2008 and 2007, product development expenditures represented approximately 9%, 8% and 7%, respectively, of our total revenues. Our network of development and financial
information technology centers apply the expertise of multiple teams to design, develop and maintain specialized processing systems around our multiple technology platforms. The applications of our account processing systems meet the preferences and
diverse requirements of the international, national, regional or local market-specific financial service environments of our clients. In developing our products, we stress interaction with and responsiveness to the needs of our clients, including
customization of software to meet client needs. We have adopted web services and service-oriented architecture principles in our software development practices so that we and our clients can benefit from the efficient development of technology. We
provide dedicated solutions that are designed, developed, maintained and enhanced according to each client’s goals for service quality, business development, asset and liability mix, and local market positioning as well as other user-defined
parameters.

Intellectual Property

We regard our transaction processing services and related products and our software as proprietary, and utilize a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, internal security
practices and employee and third party non-disclosure agreements for protection. We believe that legal protection of our software, while important, is less significant than the knowledge and experience of our management and personnel and their
ability to develop, enhance and market new products and services. The majority of our patents cover various electronic billing and payment innovations, other financial software products or services, or aspects of our separately managed accounts
services. We believe that we possess all proprietary rights necessary to conduct our business.

Competition

Financial

The market
for information technology products and services within the financial industry is highly competitive. Our principal competitors include internal data processing departments, data processing affiliates of large companies and large computer hardware
manufacturers, independent computer service firms, and processing centers owned and operated as user cooperatives. Some of these competitors possess substantially greater financial, sales and marketing resources than we do. Competition for in-house
data processing and software departments is intensified by the efforts of computer hardware vendors which encourage the growth of internal data centers and consulting service providers who assist these departments with the design and implementation
of customized software solutions. Our software products compete in several different market segments and geographies, including with large diversified computer software and service companies and independent suppliers of software products.







Competitive factors for account processing services include product quality, service
reliability, product line comprehensiveness and integration, timely introduction of new products and features, and price. We believe that we compete favorably in each of these categories. In addition, we believe that our position as an independent
vendor, rather than as a cooperative, an affiliate of a larger corporation or a hardware vendor, is a competitive advantage. We compete with vendors that offer similar transaction processing products and services to financial institutions, including
Fidelity National Information Services, Inc., Jack Henry and Associates, Inc., and Open Solutions, Inc. There has been significant consolidation among providers of information technology products and services to financial institutions, and we
believe this consolidation will continue in the future.

Payments

Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. and Online Resources Corporation compete with us most directly as full service banking, billing
and bill payment competitors. A number of other companies compete with us in the electronic transaction processing business, including MasterCard Incorporated, Visa, Inc. and First Data Corporation. In addition, the possibility of billers and
financial institutions continuing to use or deciding to create in-house systems to handle their own electronic billing and payment transactions, and their own Internet banking solutions in the case of financial institutions, remains a competitive
threat. In-house solutions have been, and will continue to be, an option for our clients and a competitive factor facing our business. We expect competition to continue to increase as new companies enter our markets and existing competitors expand
their product lines and services. In addition, many companies that provide outsourced Internet finance solutions are consolidating, creating larger competitors with greater resources and broader product lines. Our investment services business
competes primarily with providers of portfolio accounting software and outsourced services and with in-house solutions developed by large financial institutions.

Government Regulation

Our data processing and electronic commerce
subsidiaries are generally not directly subject to federal or state regulations specifically applicable to financial institutions such as banks, thrifts and credit unions. However, as a provider of services to these financial institutions, our data
processing and electronic commerce operations are examined on a regular basis by the FDIC, the Federal Reserve Bank, the National Credit Union Association, the Office of Thrift Supervision, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and various
state regulatory authorities. Because we use the Federal Reserve’s ACH network to process many of our transactions, we are subject to the Federal Reserve Board’s rules with respect to its ACH network. In addition, independent auditors
annually review many of our operations to provide internal control evaluations for our clients’ auditors and regulators.







From time to time, in order to comply with our obligations under federal and state laws, we
may be required to comply with annual reporting or licensing requirements or to implement operating policies and procedures to protect, among other matters, the privacy and security of our clients’ information.

Employees

We have
approximately 20,000 employees, many of whom are specialists in our information management centers and related product and service businesses. This service support network includes employees with backgrounds in computer science and the financial and
insurance industries, often complemented by management and other employees with direct experience in banks, thrifts, credit unions, savings institutions, and other financial services environments. Our employees provide expertise in: programming,
software development, modification and maintenance; computer operations, network control and technical support; client services and training; business process outsourcing; item and mortgage processing; system conversions; sales and marketing; and
account management.

None of our employees in the United States are represented by a union, and there have been no work
stoppages, strikes or, to our knowledge, attempts to organize. The service nature of our business makes our employees an important corporate asset. Although the market for qualified personnel is competitive, we have not experienced significant
difficulty with hiring or retaining our staff of top industry professionals. In assessing potential acquisition candidates, the quality and stability of the prospective company’s staff are emphasized.

Available Information

Our
website address is www.fiserv.com. We are not including the information provided on our website as a part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We make available free of charge (other than an investor’s own
Internet access charges) through our website our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material
with, or furnish such material to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.

