Item 1.
Business

Overview

Fiserv, Inc. is the leading global provider of financial services technology solutions, including electronic commerce systems and services such as transaction processing, electronic bill payment and
presentment, business process outsourcing, document distribution services, and software and systems solutions. Fiserv is a Fortune 500 company and is publicly traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. We serve approximately 16,000 clients
worldwide, including banks, thrifts, credit unions, investment management firms, leasing and finance companies, retailers, merchants, and government agencies. The majority of the services we provide to our clients are non-discretionary in nature and
are necessary for our clients to operate their business. Our operations are principally located in the United States where we operate centers for full-service financial data and transaction processing, software system development, item processing
and check imaging, and technology support.

In 2010, we had $4.1 billion in total revenue and $958 million in net cash
provided by operating activities from continuing operations. Processing and services revenue, which in 2010 represented 83% of our consolidated revenue, is primarily generated from account and transaction-based fees under contracts that generally
have terms of three to five years. In 2010, 2009 and 2008, our international operations contributed 6%, 5% and 5% of total revenue, respectively, from Argentina, Australia, Canada, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, France, India, Indonesia, Luxembourg,
Malaysia, Mexico, the Netherlands, the Philippines, Puerto Rico, Poland, Singapore, and the United Kingdom.







Since we began, we have grown our business by developing highly specialized services and
product enhancements, adding new clients, and acquiring businesses that complement ours. In 2007, we acquired CheckFree Corporation (“CheckFree”), a leading provider of electronic commerce services and products, including electronic bill
payment and presentment and Internet banking. The acquisition was the largest in our history, has enabled us to deliver a wide range of integrated products and services, and has created new opportunities for growth.

We originally incorporated in Delaware in 1984, and reincorporated as a Wisconsin corporation in 1992. Our headquarters are located at
255 Fiserv Drive, Brookfield, Wisconsin 53045, and our telephone number is (262) 879-5000.

The Markets We Serve

General

The
market for products and services offered by financial institutions is experiencing continuous change. The financial industry regularly introduces and implements new payment, deposit, lending, investment and risk management products, and the
distinctions among the products and services traditionally offered by different types of financial institutions continue to narrow as they seek to serve the same ultimate customers.

The growing volume and types of transactions and payment mechanisms have increased the data and transaction processing and other service
needs of financial institutions. We believe that financial institutions will be required to continue to invest significant capital and human resources to process transactions and manage information in this rapidly evolving and competitive
environment. We believe that economies of scale in developing and maintaining the infrastructure, products, services and networks necessary to be competitive are essential to justify the required amounts of investments in capital and human
resources.

The number of financial institutions in the United States continues to decline as a result of the current state of
the economy as well as other market and regulatory pressures. Consolidation has not, however, resulted in a material reduction in the number of customers or financial accounts serviced by the financial industry as a whole. Our revenue is diversified
and our focus on long-term client relationships and recurring, transaction-oriented products and services has reduced the impact that consolidation has on us. We have clients that span the entire range of financial institutions in terms of asset
size, and we typically enter into multi-year agreements. Our 50 largest financial institution clients represent less than 25% of our annual revenue, and our remaining revenue is spread across the balance of our client base. Our largest client
represents approximately 6% of our annual revenue.

We anticipate that demand for products that facilitate electronic
transactions will continue to increase, which should translate to revenue opportunities for us. As a result, we believe that our sizable and diverse client base combined with our position as a leading provider of non-discretionary, recurring
revenue-based products and services gives us a solid foundation for growth. In addition, we believe that the integration of our products and services creates a compelling value proposition for our clients. Our ongoing operations are reported in the
Payments and Industry Products (“Payments”) and Financial Institution Services (“Financial”) business segments.

Payments

The
businesses in our Payments segment primarily provide electronic bill payment and presentment services and debit and other card-based payment products and services to meet the electronic transaction processing needs of the financial services
industry. Our businesses in this segment also provide Internet banking, investment account processing services for separately managed accounts, card and print personalization services, and fraud and risk management products and services.







Financial

The businesses in our Financial segment provide financial institutions with the products and services they need to run their operations. Many financial institutions that previously developed their own
software systems and maintained their own data processing operations have outsourced their data processing requirements by licensing software from third-parties or by contracting with third-party processors. This has allowed them to reduce costs and
enhance their products and services. Outsourcing can involve the licensing of software, which reduces the need for costly technical expertise within a financial institution, or the utilization of service bureaus, facilities management or resource
management capabilities, which can enhance capacity and capabilities. Within the Financial segment, we provide banks, thrifts and credit unions with account processing services, item processing services, loan origination and servicing products, cash
management and consulting services, and other products and services that support numerous types of financial transactions.

Our Strategy

Our vision is to be a global leader in transaction-based technology solutions. Our mission is to provide integrated
technology and services solutions which enable best-in-class results for our clients. We are focused on operating businesses where we have: deep industry expertise that enables us to serve the market with high effectiveness; a strong competitive
position, currently or via a clear path in the foreseeable future; long-term, trusted, ongoing client relationships which are not based on one-time transactions; differentiated solutions that deliver higher-than-normal value to our clients through
integration and innovation; and strong management to execute strategies in a disciplined manner. Consistent with this focus, we continue to execute the following strategic platforms:

Enhanced Client Relationship Value. We plan to increase the number and breadth of our client relationships by, among other matters,
continuing to integrate our product and services groups, combining products and services to deliver improved value propositions, and streamlining our service and support processes.

Acquisitions. We expect to acquire businesses when we identify: a compelling strategic need, such as a product, service or
technology that helps fill a specific market requirement; an opportunity to change market dynamics; a way to achieve business scale; or some similar consideration.

Innovation. We seek to be an innovation leader in all of our key markets, leveraging our assets and capabilities to be at the forefront of our markets.

Operational Excellence. We believe we can improve our performance by using the opportunities created by our size and scale. For
example, we are using our consolidated buying power and shared utility structures to provide cost savings.

Capital
Discipline. Finally, we intend to make capital allocation decisions that offer the best prospects for our long-term growth and profitability, which may include, among other matters, internal investment, repayment of debt, repurchases of our own
shares, capital improvements or acquisitions.

Principal Solutions and Services

Financial information regarding our business segments is included in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements on page 52.

Payments

E-Banking

Our e-banking
business is comprised of our electronic bill payment and presentment services and our Internet banking and cash management products. Financial institutions can offer our bill payment services to consumers either through a hosted application or
through various protocols that link online banking applications







to our internal billing and payment system. These systems allow our clients’ customers to: manage household bills via an easy-to-use, online tool; view relevant billing and payment
information; pay and manage all of their bills at one location; experience the same speed of payment they would normally have at a biller’s site; and conveniently make next-day payments to many of the companies with which they do business. We
use our platform to process the vast majority of the payment transactions that we handle, which enables us to improve our economies of scale. Once a consumer has accessed the system through a financial institution, he or she can elect to pay an
electronic bill delivered by us or can instruct the system to pay any individual or company within the U.S. In 2010, we processed more than 1.4 billion online bill payment transactions.

Our principal online consumer and business banking product is
Voyager®, a software platform upon which we have built a number of software applications to support multiple
lines of banking businesses. Using universal standards, Voyager has been designed to be highly scalable to meet the evolving needs of our clients. This structure enables our clients to deploy new Internet-based financial services by adding
applications to our platform at any time and by integrating future applications to any Internet connected point-of-presence. Corillian Online®combines our electronic bill payment and online banking solutions into a fully integrated product that provides extensive personal money management and other valuable
tools. We also provide a series of treasury management solutions, including online business banking, commercial cash management, remote deposit, and corporate data exchange, under our BANKLINK®brand.

Our Mobile
MoneyTMproduct provides a variety of mobile banking and
payments services, including balance inquiry, transaction history, bill payment and transfers, through a mobile device to our clients and their customers. It enables financial institutions to reach more consumers via the mobile channel than any
other single technology solution because it supports all three mobile access modes: browser, text banking, and mobile application.

In 2010, we introduced ZashPay®, a person-to-person payments
service that enables the secure, electronic movement of money to and from bank accounts based in the U.S., typically within one to three business days. Using our existing bill payment network, a payment is originated directly from the sender’s
bank account and is transmitted directly into the recipient’s account, utilizing the same secure processes as an online banking transaction. ZashPay can be accessed through the websites of participating financial institutions as well as a
proprietary portal, www.ZashPay.com.

Biller Business

We believe that consumers will continue to shift their financial transactions from traditional paper-based methods to electronic methods if they have easy-to-access, easy-to-use, secure and cost-effective
methods of receiving and paying their bills electronically. In 2010, we delivered approximately 330 million electronic bills to consumers through our various distribution channels. Consumers access our electronic billing and payment solutions
via numerous hosted channels, including through a financial institution’s Internet portal, through the billers’ Internet sites, and through our biller services internet portals, the largest of which is www.mycheckfree.com. Additionally,
consumers can make bill payments, including emergency or expedited payments, through our agent-assisted, Internet or interactive voice response phone tools and at our nationwide walk-in bill payment locations. These diverse services allow the
customers of our clients to pay bills wherever and however they feel most comfortable. Furthermore, because our biller clients are able to receive all these services from Fiserv, we can eliminate the operational complexity and expense of supporting
multiple vendor solutions or in-house developed solutions. Our electronic biller services business also offers a host of club management and electronic financial transaction services within the health and fitness industry.

Card Services

Fiserv’s Card Services business, a leader in the electronic funds transfer marketplace, provides a total payments solution through a
variety of products and services. We offer ATM and point of sale PIN-based debit transaction processing, signature debit processing, ATM driving and monitoring, electronic benefits transfer







switching and national and regional network access. We own the
ACCEL/Exchange®network and operate approximately 20,000 ATMs. Comprehensive integration with our account
processing products and services allows us to drive down costs and leverage efficiencies for our clients through enterprise offerings in areas such as risk management and loyalty rewards. Our Card Services business’ clients include more than
4,200 banks and credit unions of all asset sizes, resellers (via both business alliance and remarketer agreements), independent sales organizations and merchant acquirers across the United States. In 2010, we processed over 8.8 billion ATM and debit
transactions, making us one of the largest financial transaction processors in the nation.

Our feature-rich credit products
and services fulfill a wide range of bank card, retail, commercial and consumer credit processing requirements through an integrated, full-service credit management solution that utilizes a globally recognized processing platform. Our credit
processing system provides credit decisioning, authorization processing, online cardholder account management, customer service case management, letters, card production, statements, targeted marketing programs, collections, and recovery management.

Output Solutions

Our output solutions business provides clients with: electronic document management through our electronic document delivery products and services; card manufacturing, personalization and mailing;
statement production and mailing; design and fulfillment of direct mail solutions; forms distribution; laser printing and mailing; and office supplies.

Investment Services

We provide a range of technology platforms and
software solutions which assist over 325 firms, including broker dealers, global asset managers, investment advisors, banks and insurance companies, to deliver portfolio management, enhanced trading solutions, performance measurement, reporting
services, corporate actions, billing, and trading automation to their clients. Our fee-based investment management clients are typically sponsors or managers in the managed accounts and wealth management market that offer separately managed
accounts, unified managed accounts, mutual fund advisory accounts, and investment management products; or global institutional money managers, managing investments of institutions and high net worth individuals. Our primary product is a real-time
portfolio management and trading system used by nine of the top ten largest brokerage firms, based on assets under management, and eight of the top ten largest asset managers offering managed accounts. The number of accounts using our market leading
platform topped three million for the first time in 2009. In 2010, we acquired AdviceAmerica, Inc., a developer of software for financial advisors, wealth managers and bank trust departments. This extends our capabilities into front-office
applications such as financial planning, customer relationship management and proposal tools that support the growing needs of financial advisors.

Risk Management

Our risk management business provides
a suite of products and services, including financial crime, compliance, anti-money laundering, fraud prevention, market surveillance and employee fraud detection solutions. Our offerings in this market include Fiserv KRM, Fraud Risk ManagerTM, Fraud Detection SystemSM, Fraudlink®, and Fraudguard®.

Financial

We
provide products and services to meet the financial technology needs of banks, credit unions, thrifts and leasing and finance companies. Many of the products and services that we provide are sold as an integrated solution to our clients and include
account, item, and lending processing.







Account Processing

We provide integrated account servicing and management capabilities to our bank, thrift and credit union clients, as well as ancillary value-added products and services that complement the account
processing systems. Account processing solutions are the principal systems that enable a bank to operate and include systems that process customer deposit and loan accounts, an institution’s general ledgers, central information files and other
financial information. These solutions also include extensive security, report generation and other features that financial institutions need to process transactions for their depositors and other customers, as well as to comply with applicable
regulations. Account processing solutions are offered through online data transmission connections to our data processing centers, often called “service bureaus,” or as stand-alone, in-house licensed software for installation on
client-owned computer systems.

While many of our clients contract to obtain all or a majority of their data processing
requirements from us, the modular design of many of our service bureau and software solutions allows clients to start with one application and, as needed, add applications and features developed by us or by third parties. We support a broad range of
terminals and other client-owned peripheral devices manufactured by a variety of vendors. This support capability reduces our clients’ initial conversion expenses, enhances existing clients’ ability to change equipment and broadens our
market.

Our account processing solutions are as follows:



•Bank and Thrift Account Processing Solutions. The principal service bureau solutions used by banks and thrifts are: Premier®, SignatureTM, Cleartouch®, Source OneSMand
PrecisionTM. We also offer in-house licensed software
solutions to our banking clients, including Premier, Signature and Precision. The Signature system is available both domestically and internationally.



•Credit Union Account Processing Solutions. The principal account processing solutions primarily used by credit unions are: Acumen®, AdvantageTM, Charlotte, CUBE®, CubicsPlus®, CUSATM, DataSafe®, Galaxy®, OnCU®, Portico®, Reliance®, Spectrum®, and XP2®. These solutions are offered in a service bureau environment, as an in-house licensed software system or in both delivery modes.

Item Processing

We offer item processing solutions to financial institutions and other financial intermediaries. We provide item processing and imaging systems via in-house solutions or in a service bureau environment to
account processing clients as well as to those who do not utilize our account processing systems. Our item processing services include source capture solutions via a web-based platform for check image capture at branch, merchant, consumer, and ATM
locations. Through the Fiserv Clearing Network, we provide complete check clearing and image exchange services. We provide image archive services with online retrieval and full disaster backup, and a number of check imaging products that enable
financial institutions to leverage the processes provided for in the Check Clearing Act of the 21st Century. Our ACH software,
PEP+®, enables payments to be originated and received through the ACH system, and, together with our
PEP+reACH

TM

product, allows returned checks, checks at the
point-of-sale, and checks sent to a lockbox to be converted to electronic payments. Our account reconciliation software, ARP/SMS

TM

, is an online, real-time positive pay and reconcilement system that enables clients to monitor deposits and identify
duplicate items, which reduces their exposure to check fraud and helps them manage electronic check conversion. Our compliance solutions enable financial institutions, corporations and government agencies to maintain compliance with state and
federal regulations applicable to them. We also provide consulting services, business operations services and software products that facilitate the transformation of our clients’ payments environment. We enhance a client’s ability to
achieve its goals by enabling it to identify, select and implement the most effective and cost-efficient strategies. Finally, we offer traditional item processing services, including image capture, proof of deposit, in-clearings, statements,
exception and return processing and fraud detection.







Lending Solutions

Our lending business offers a variety of products and services to financial institutions and other financial intermediaries, including: loan origination systems, consumer and commercial lease and loan
servicing products, and default mitigation and business process outsourcing services; a mortgage loan servicing platform and loan origination and tracking systems; and portfolio analytical services.

Corporate Transactions

In 2009, we completed the sale of our Loan Fulfillment Services business (“Fiserv LFS”) and the sale of the balance of our
investment support services business (“Fiserv ISS”). In 2008, we completed the sale of a majority of our health businesses (“Fiserv Health”) to UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc. for approximately $480 million, net of income taxes
and transaction costs, as well as the first of the two transactions to dispose of Fiserv ISS by selling Fiserv Trust Company and the accounts of our institutional retirement plan and advisor services operations to TD AMERITRADE Online Holdings, Inc.
for approximately $200 million, net of income taxes and transaction costs. We also completed the sale of a 51% interest in substantially all of the businesses in our Insurance Services segment (“Fiserv Insurance”) to Trident IV, LP.

Servicing the Market

Our mission is to provide integrated technology and services solutions that enable best-in-class results for our clients. The markets for our account and transaction processing services have specific
needs and requirements, with strong emphasis placed by clients on flexibility, quality, comprehensiveness and integration of product lines, service reliability, timely introduction of new products and features, cost effectiveness, and service
excellence. We believe that our financial strength and primary focus on the financial services industry enhances our ability to meet these needs and service our clients. In addition, we believe that our dedication to providing excellent client
service and support no matter the size of the client and our commitment of substantial resources to training and technical support helps us to retain clients. For example, we conduct client training in technology centers, where we maintain fully
equipped demonstration and training facilities that contain equipment used in the delivery of our services. We also provide on-site training services and online education to clients.

Product Development

To meet the changing technology needs of our clients,
we continually develop, maintain and enhance our products and systems. In 2010, 2009 and 2008, product development expenditures represented approximately 9%, 9% and 8%, respectively, of our total revenue. Our network of development and financial
information technology centers apply the expertise of multiple teams to design, develop and maintain specialized processing systems around our multiple technology platforms. The applications of our account processing systems meet the preferences and
diverse requirements of the international, national, regional or local market-specific financial service environments of our clients. In developing our products, we stress interaction with and responsiveness to the needs of our clients, including
customization of software to meet client needs. We have adopted web services and service-oriented architecture principles in our software development practices so that we and our clients can benefit from the efficient development of technology. We
provide dedicated solutions that are designed, developed, maintained and enhanced according to each client’s goals for service quality, business development, asset and liability mix, and local market positioning as well as other user-defined
parameters.

Intellectual Property

We regard our transaction processing services and related products and our software as proprietary, and utilize a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, internal security
practices and employee and third party non-disclosure agreements for protection. We continue, where appropriate, to seek and







secure patents with respect to our technology. The majority of our patents cover various electronic billing and payment innovations, other financial software products or services, or aspects of
our separately managed accounts services. We believe that we possess all proprietary rights necessary to conduct our business.

Competition

Payments

Financial

Government Regulation

Fiserv and its subsidiaries are generally not directly subject to federal or state regulations specifically applicable to financial
institutions such as banks, thrifts and credit unions. However, as a provider of services to these financial institutions, our data processing and electronic commerce operations are examined on a regular basis by the FDIC, the Federal Reserve Bank,
the National Credit Union Association, the Office of Thrift







Supervision, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and various state regulatory authorities. Because we use the Federal Reserve’s ACH network to process many of our transactions, we
are subject to the Federal Reserve Board’s rules with respect to its ACH network. In addition, independent auditors annually review many of our operations to provide internal control evaluations for our clients, their auditors and regulators.

In 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act was enacted (the “Dodd-Frank Act”). The
Dodd-Frank Act introduces substantial reforms to supervision and operation of the financial services industry, including introducing changes that: affect the oversight and supervision of financial institutions; provide for a new resolution procedure
for large financial companies; create a new agency responsible for implementing and enforcing compliance with consumer financial laws; introduce more stringent regulatory capital requirements; and implement changes to corporate governance and
executive compensation practices. It also calls for a number of studies to be conducted and requires significant rule-making. We expect that the Dodd-Frank Act will result in numerous new regulations that will impact the financial industry. Until
there are further developments in the rule-making process, however, it is too early to determine what impact this complex legislation will have on us or our clients.

From time to time, in order to comply with our obligations under federal and state laws, we are required to comply with annual reporting
or licensing requirements and to implement operating policies and procedures to protect, among other matters, the privacy and security of our clients’ information.

Employees

We have approximately 19,000 employees, many of whom are
specialists in our information management centers and related product and service businesses. This service support network includes employees with backgrounds in computer science and the financial industry, often complemented by management and other
employees with direct experience in banks, thrifts, credit unions, savings institutions, and other financial services environments. Our employees provide expertise in: programming, software development, modification and maintenance; computer
operations, network control and technical support; client services and training; business process outsourcing; item and mortgage processing; system conversions; sales and marketing; and account management.

None of our employees in the United States are represented by a union, and there have been no work stoppages, strikes or, to our
knowledge, attempts to organize. The service nature of our business makes our employees an important corporate asset. Although the market for qualified personnel is competitive, we have not experienced significant difficulty with hiring or retaining
our staff of top industry professionals. In assessing potential acquisition candidates, the quality and stability of the prospective company’s staff are emphasized.







Available Information

Our website address is www.fiserv.com. We are not including the information provided on our website as a part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We make available
free of charge (other than an investor’s own Internet access charges) through our website our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably
practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.

