ITEM
      1.BUSINESS





Our
Business



Roper
Industries, Inc. (“Roper” or the “Company”) was incorporated on December 17,
1981 under the laws of the State of Delaware. We are a diversified growth
company that designs, manufactures and distributes energy systems and controls,
scientific and industrial imaging products and software, industrial technology
products and radio frequency (“RF”) products and services. We market these
products and services to selected segments of a broad range of markets including
RF applications, medical, water, energy, research, education, security and other
niche markets.



We pursue
consistent and sustainable growth in sales and earnings by emphasizing
continuous improvement in the operating performance of our existing businesses
and by acquiring other carefully selected businesses that offer high value-added
services, engineered products and solutions and are capable of achieving growth
and maintaining high margins. We compete in many niche markets and believe that
we are the market leader or a competitive alternative to the market leader in
the majority of these markets.





Market
Share, Market Expansion, and Product Development



Leadership with Engineered Content
for Niche Markets- We maintain a leading position in many of our
markets. We believe our market positions are attributable to the technical
sophistication of our products, the applications expertise used to create our
advanced products and systems, and our distribution and service capabilities.
Our operating units grow their businesses through new product development and
development of new applications and services for existing products to satisfy
customer needs. In addition, our operating units grow our customer base by
expanding our distribution, selling other products through our existing channels
and entering adjacent markets.



Diversified End Markets and
Geographic Reach- Over the past decade, we have strategically expanded
the number of end markets we serve to increase revenue and business stability
and expand our opportunities for growth. We have a global presence, with sales
of products manufactured and exported from the United States (“U.S.”) and
manufactured abroad and sold to customers outside the U.S. totaling $791 million
in 2009.  Information regarding our international operations is set
forth in Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in
this Annual Report.



Research and Development- We
conduct applied research and development to improve the quality and performance
of our products and to develop new technologies and products. Our research and
development spending was $83.4 million in 2009 as compared to $87.4 and $67.9
million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Research and development expense as a
percentage of sales increased to 4.1% in 2009 from 3.8% in 2008. The percentage
increase is due to maintaining critical research and development spending for
new product development even during the economic downturn experienced in
2009.





Our
Business Segments



Our
operations are reported in four market-focused segments around common customers,
markets, sales channels, technologies and common cost opportunities. The
segments are: Scientific and Industrial Imaging, Energy Systems and Controls,
Industrial Technology and RF Technology. Financial information about our
business segments is presented in Note 14 of the notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.





Scientific
and Industrial Imaging



Our
Scientific and Industrial Imaging segment principally offers high performance
digital imaging products and software, patient positioning products and software
in medical applications and handheld and vehicle mount computers and software.
These products and solutions are provided through six U.S-based and one
Canadian-based operating units. For 2009, this segment had net sales of $354.8
million, representing 17.3% of our total net sales.



Digital Imaging Products and
Software- We manufacture and sell extremely sensitive, high-performance
charged couple device (“CCD”) and complementary metal oxide semiconductor
(“CMOS”) cameras, detectors and related software for a variety of scientific and
industrial uses, which require high resolution and/or high speed digital video,
including transmission electron microscopy and spectroscopy applications. We
principally sell these products for use within academic, government research,
semiconductor, security, automotive, and other end-user markets such as
biological and material science. They are frequently incorporated into products
by original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”).



Medical Products and Software- - We manufacture and sell patient positioning devices, image-guided therapy
software and supply diagnostic and therapeutic disposable products used in
conjunction with ultrasound imaging for minimally invasive medical
procedures.  We also design and manufacture a non-invasive instrument
for portable ultrasound bladder volume measurement and a video laryngoscope
designed to enable rapid intubation even in the most difficult
settings.



Handheld and Vehicle Mount Computers
and Software- We manufacture and sell fully rugged handheld and vehicle
mount computers for utility, principally water management, and non-utility
markets and we develop and sell software to assist in utility meter reading and
service order management.



Backlog- Our Scientific and
Industrial Imaging segment companies have lead times of up to several months on
many of their product sales, although standard products are often shipped within
two weeks of receipt of order. Blanket purchase orders are placed by certain OEM
and end-users, with continuing requirements for fulfillment over specified
periods of time. The segment’s backlog of firm unfilled orders, including
blanket purchase orders, totaled $73.7 million at December 31, 2009, as compared
to $80.0 million at December 31, 2008.



Distribution and Sales-
Distribution and sales occur through direct sales personnel, manufacturers’
representatives, value added resellers (“VARs”), OEMs and
distributors.





Energy
Systems and Controls



Our
Energy Systems and Controls segment principally produces control systems, fluid
properties testing equipment, industrial valves and controls, vibration and
other non-destructive inspection and measurement products and solutions, which
are provided through six U.S.-based operating units. For 2009, this segment had
net sales of $440.9 million, representing 21.5% of our total net
sales.



Control Systems- We
manufacture control systems and panels and provide related engineering and
commissioning services for turbomachinery applications, predominately in energy
markets.



Fluid Properties Testing
Equipment- We manufacture and sell automated and manual test equipment
to determine physical and elemental properties, such as sulfur and nitrogen
content, flash point, viscosity, freeze point and distillation, of liquids and
gases for the petroleum and other industries.



Industrial Valves and
Controls- We manufacture and distribute a variety of valves, sensors,
switches and control products used on engines, compressors, turbines and other
powered equipment for the oil and gas, pipeline, power generation, marine engine
and general industrial markets. Many of these products are designed for use in
hazardous environments.



Sensors and Controls- We
manufacture sensors and control equipment including pressure sensors,
temperature sensors, measurement instruments and control software for global
rubber, plastics and process industries.



Non-destructive Inspection and
Measurement Instrumentation- We manufacture non-destructive inspection
and measurement solutions including measurement probes, robotics, and vibration
sensors, switches and transmitters. These solutions are applied principally in
energy markets. Many of these products are designed for use in hazardous
environments.



Backlog- The Energy Systems
and Controls operating units’ sales reflect a combination of standard products
and large engineered projects. Standard products generally ship within two weeks
of receipt of order, and large engineered projects may have lead times of
several months. As such, backlog may fluctuate depending upon the timing of
large project awards. This segment’s backlog of firm unfilled orders totaled
$70.9 million at December 31, 2009 compared to $85.0 million at December 31,
2008.



Distribution and Sales-
Distribution and sales occur through direct sales offices, manufacturers’
representatives and distributors in both the U.S. and various other
countries.





Industrial
Technology



Our
Industrial Technology segment produces industrial pumps, equipment and
consumables for materials analysis, industrial leak testing equipment, flow
measurement and metering equipment and water meter and automatic meter reading
(“AMR”) products and systems. These products and solutions are provided through
six U.S.-based and two European-based operating units. For 2009, this segment
had net sales of $536.2 million, representing 26.2% of our total net
sales.



Industrial Pumps- We
manufacture and distribute a wide variety of pumps. These pumps vary
significantly in complexity and in pumping method employed, which allows for the
movement and application of a diverse range of liquids and solids including low
and high viscosity liquids, high solids content slurries and chemicals. Our
pumps are used in large and diverse sets of end markets such as oil and gas,
agricultural, water and wastewater, chemical and general
industrial.



Materials Analysis Equipment and
Consumables- We manufacture and sell equipment and supply various types
of consumables necessary to prepare materials samples for testing and analysis.
These products are used mostly within the academic, government research,
electronics, material science, basic materials, steel and automotive end-user
markets.



Industrial Leak Testing
Equipment- We manufacture and sell products and systems to test for
leaks and confirm the integrity of assemblies and sub-assemblies in automotive,
medical, industrial and consumer products applications.



Flow Measurement Equipment-
We manufacture and distribute turbine and positive displacement flow meters,
emissions measurement equipment and flow meter calibration products for
aerospace, automotive, power generation and other industrial
applications.



Water Meter and AMR Products and
Systems- We manufacture and distribute several classes of water meter
products serving the residential, and certain commercial and industrial water
management markets, and several lines of automatic meter reading products and
systems serving these markets.



Backlog- The Industrial
Technology operating units’ sales reflect a combination of standard products and
specially engineered, application-specific products. Standard products are
typically shipped within two weeks of receipt of order, with certain valve and
pump products shipped on an immediate basis. Application-specific products
typically ship within 6 to 12 weeks following receipt of order. However, larger
project orders and blanket purchase orders for certain OEMs may extend shipment
for longer periods. This segment’s backlog of firm unfilled orders, including
blanket purchase orders, totaled $52.1 million at December 31, 2009, as compared
to $59.1 million at December 31, 2008.



Distribution and Sales-
Distribution and sales occur through direct sales personnel, manufacturers’
representatives and distributors.





RF
Technology



Our RF
Technology segment provides radio frequency identification
(“RFID”)  and other communication related technology and software
solutions that are used primarily in comprehensive toll and traffic systems and
processing, security and access control, campus card systems, freight matching,
mobile asset tracking, water sub-metering and remote monitoring applications.
These products and solutions are provided through six U.S.-based and one
European-based operating units. This segment had sales of $717.8 million for the
year ended December 31, 2009, representing 35.0% of our total net
sales.



Toll and Traffic Systems- We
manufacture and sell toll tags and monitoring systems as well as provide
transaction and violation processing services for toll and traffic systems to
both governmental and private sector entities. In addition, we provide
intelligent traffic systems that assist customers in improving traffic flow and
infrastructure utilization.



Card Systems/Integrated Security
Solutions- We provide card systems and integrated security solutions to
education, health care and various other markets. In the education and health
care markets, we also provide an integrated nutrition management
solution.



Freight Matching- We
maintain an electronic marketplace that matches available capacity of trucking
units with the available loads of freight to be moved from location to location
throughout North America.



Backlog- The RF Technology
operating units’ sales reflect a combination of standard products, large
engineered projects, and multi-year operations and maintenance contracts.
Standard products generally ship within two weeks of receipt of order, and large
engineered projects may have lead times of several months. As such, backlog may
fluctuate depending upon the timing of large project awards. This segment’s
backlog of firm unfilled orders totaled $368.8 million at December 31, 2009
compared to $365.7 million at December 31, 2008.



Distribution and Sales-
Distribution and sales occur through direct sales personnel, manufacturers’
representatives and distributors.



Materials
and Suppliers



We
believe that most materials and supplies we use are readily available from
numerous sources and suppliers throughout the world. However, some of our
components and sub-assemblies are currently available from a limited number of
suppliers. Some high-performance components for digital imaging products can be
in short supply and/or suppliers have occasional difficulty manufacturing such
components to our specifications. We regularly investigate and identify
alternative sources where possible, and we believe that these conditions equally
affect our competitors. Thus far, supply shortages have not had a material
adverse effect on Roper’s sales although delays in shipments have occurred
following such supply interruptions.





Environmental
Matters and Other Governmental Regulation



Our
operations and properties are subject to laws and regulations relating to
environmental protection, including laws and regulations governing air
emissions, water discharges, waste management and workplace safety. We use,
generate and dispose of hazardous substances and waste in our operations and, as
a result, could be subject to potentially material liabilities relating to the
investigation and clean-up of contaminated properties and to claims alleging
personal injury. We are required continually to conform our operations and
properties to these laws and adapt to regulatory requirements in all countries
as these requirements change. We have experienced, and expect to continue to
experience, modest costs relating to our compliance with environmental laws and
regulations. In connection with our acquisitions, we may assume significant
environmental liabilities, some of which we may not be aware of, or may not be
quantifiable, at the time of acquisition. In addition, new laws and regulations,
stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of
previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new clean-up requirements
could increase our environmental compliance costs or subject us to new or
increased liabilities.





Customers



No
customer accounted for 10% or more of net sales for 2009 for any segment or for
Roper as a whole.





Competition



Generally,
our products and solutions face significant competition, usually from a limited
number of competitors. We believe that we are a leader in most of our markets,
and no single company competes with us over a significant number of product
lines. Competitors might be large or small in size, often depending on the life
cycle and maturity of the technology employed. We compete primarily on product
quality, performance, innovation, technology, price, applications expertise,
distribution channel access and customer service capabilities.





Patents
and Trademarks



In
addition to trade secrets, unpatented know-how, and other intellectual property
rights, we own or license the rights under a number of patents, trademarks and
copyrights relating to certain of our products and businesses. We also employ
various methods, including confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements with
employees, to protect our trade secrets and know-how. We believe that our
operating units are not substantially dependent on any single patent, trademark,
copyright, or other item of intellectual property or group of patents,
trademarks or copyrights.





Employees



As of
December 31, 2009, we had approximately 7,650 total employees, with
approximately 5,650 located in the United States. Approximately 170 of our
employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements. We have not
experienced any work stoppages and consider our relations with our employees to
be good.





Available
Information



All
reports filed electronically by Roper with the United States Securities and
Exchange Commission (“SEC”), including our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly
reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and our annual proxy
statements, as well as any amendments to those reports, are accessible at no
cost on our website at www.roperind.com. These filings are also accessible on
the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. You may also read and copy any material Roper
files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E.,
Washington, D.C. 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the
Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The Company’s
Corporate Governance Guidelines; the charters of the Audit Committee, the
Compensation Committee, and the Nominating and Governance Committee; and the
Code of Business Conduct & Ethics are also available on the Company’s
website.



We have
included the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer
certifications regarding Roper’s public disclosure required by Section 302
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 as Exhibits 31.1 and 31.2 of this report.
Additionally, Roper filed with the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”) the
Chief Executive Officer certification regarding Roper’s compliance with the
NYSE’s Corporate Governance Listing Standards (the “Listing Standards”) pursuant
to Section 303A.12(a) of the Listing Standards. The certification was
filed with the NYSE on June 15, 2009 and indicated that the Chief Executive
Officer was not aware of any violations of the Listing Standards by the
Company.





