ITEM 1.BUSINESS





Our Business



Roper Industries, Inc. ("Roper" or the "Company") was incorporated on December 17, 1981 under the laws of the State of Delaware. We are a diversified growth company that designs, manufactures and distributes radio frequency ("RF") products, services and application software, industrial technology products, energy systems and controls and medical and scientific imaging products and software. We market these products and services to a broad range of markets including RF applications, medical, water, energy, research, education, software-as-a-service ("SaaS")-based information networks, security and other niche markets.



We pursue consistent and sustainable growth in sales, earnings and cash flow by emphasizing continuous improvement in the operating performance of our existing businesses and by acquiring other carefully selected businesses that offer high value-added services, engineered products and solutions and are capable of achieving growth in sales, earnings and cash flow.   We compete in many niche markets and believe we are the market leader or a competitive alternative to the market leader in the majority of these markets.



On August 22, 2012, we acquired 100% of the shares of Sunquest Information Systems, Inc. ("Sunquest"), a leading provider of diagnostic and laboratory software solutions to healthcare providers, in a $1.416 billion all-cash transaction.  We acquired Sunquest in order to complement and expand our medical platform.



Market Share, Market Expansion, and Product Development



Leadership with Engineered Content for Niche Markets- We maintain a leading position in many of our markets. We believe our market positions are attributable to the technical sophistication of our products and software, the applications expertise used to create our advanced products and systems, and our distribution and service capabilities. Our operating units grow their businesses through new product development and development of new applications and services to satisfy customer needs. In addition, our operating units grow our customer base by expanding our distribution, selling other products through our existing channels and entering adjacent markets.



Diversified End Markets and Geographic Reach- We have a global presence, with sales of products to customers outside the U.S. totaling $1.2 billion in 2012.  Information regarding our international operations is set forth in Note 14 of the notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report.



Research and Development- We conduct applied research and development to improve the quality and performance of our products and to develop new technologies and products. Our research and development spending was $125.9 million in 2012 as compared to $121.7 and $102.4 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively. Research and development expense as a percentage of sales decreased to 4.2% in 2012 from 4.4% in 2011.





Our Business Segments



Our operations are reported in four segments based upon common customers, markets, sales channels, technologies and common cost opportunities. The segments are: Medical and Scientific Imaging, Energy Systems and Controls, Industrial Technology and RF Technology. Financial information about our business segments is presented in Note 14 of the notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.





Medical and Scientific Imaging



Our Medical and Scientific Imaging segment principally offers products and software in medical applications, and high performance digital imaging products. These products and solutions are provided through nine operating units. For 2012, this segment had net sales of $703.8 million, representing 23.5% of our total net sales.



Medical Products and Software- We manufacture and sell patient positioning devices and related software for use in radiation oncology, 3-D measurement technology in computer-assisted surgery and computer-assisted therapy and supply diagnostic and therapeutic disposable products used in ultrasound imaging for minimally invasive medical procedures.  We design and manufacture a non-invasive instrument for portable ultrasound bladder volume measurement and a video laryngoscope designed to enable rapid intubation even in the most difficult settings.  We also provide diagnostic and laboratory software solutions to healthcare providers.



Digital Imaging Products and Software- We manufacture and sell extremely sensitive, high-performance electron filters, charged couple device ("CCD") and complementary metal oxide semiconductor ("CMOS") cameras, detectors and related software for a variety of scientific and industrial uses, which require high resolution and/or high speed digital video, including electron microscopy and spectroscopy applications. We principally sell these products for use within academic, government research, semiconductor, security and other end-user markets such as biological and material science. They are frequently incorporated into products by original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs").



Our Medical and Scientific Imaging segment companies have lead times of up to several months on many of their product sales, although standard products are often shipped within two weeks of receipt of order. Blanket purchase orders are placed by certain OEM and end-users, with continuing requirements for fulfillment over specified periods of time.





Energy Systems and Controls



Our Energy Systems and Controls segment principally produces control systems, fluid properties testing equipment, industrial valves and controls, vibration sensors and controls and non-destructive inspection and measurement products and solutions, which are provided through six operating units. For 2012, this segment had net sales of $646.1 million, representing 21.6% of our total net sales.



Control Systems- We manufacture control systems and provide related engineering and commissioning services for turbomachinery applications, predominately in energy markets.



Fluid Properties Testing Equipment- We manufacture and sell test equipment to determine physical and elemental properties, such as sulfur and nitrogen content, flash point, viscosity, freeze point and distillation range of liquids and gases primarily for the petroleum industry.



Industrial Valves and Controls- We manufacture and distribute valves, sensors, switches and control products used on engines, compressors, turbines and other powered equipment for the oil and gas, pipeline, power generation, marine engine and general industrial markets. Many of these products are designed for use in hazardous environments.



Sensors and Controls- We manufacture sensors and control equipment including pressure sensors, temperature sensors, measurement instruments and control software for global rubber, plastics and process industries.



Non-destructive Inspection and Measurement Instrumentation- We manufacture non-destructive inspection and measurement solutions including measurement probes, robotics, vibration sensors, switches and transmitters. These solutions are applied principally in nuclear energy markets. Many of these products are designed for use in hazardous environments.



The Energy Systems and Controls operating units' sales reflect a combination of standard products and large engineered projects. Standard products generally ship within two weeks of receipt of order, and large engineered projects may have lead times of several months. As such, backlog may fluctuate depending upon the timing of large project awards.





Industrial Technology



Our Industrial Technology segment produces fluid handling pumps, equipment and consumables for materials analysis, leak testing equipment, flow measurement and metering equipment and water meter and automatic meter reading ("AMR") products and systems. These products and solutions are provided through eight operating units. For 2012, this segment had net sales of $795.2 million, representing 26.6% of our total net sales.



Fluid Handling Pumps- We manufacture and sell a wide variety of pumps. These pumps vary significantly in complexity and in pumping method employed, which allows for the movement and application of a diverse range of low and high viscosity liquids, high solids content slurries and chemicals. Our pumps are used in end markets such as oil and gas, agricultural, water and wastewater, chemical and general industrial.



Materials Analysis Equipment and Consumables- We manufacture and sell equipment and supply various types of consumables necessary to prepare materials samples for testing and analysis. These products are used mostly within the material science, steel, automotive, electronics, mining and research end-user markets.



Leak Testing Equipment- We manufacture and sell products and systems to test for leaks and confirm the integrity of assemblies and sub-assemblies in automotive, medical and industrial applications.



Flow Measurement Equipment- We manufacture and distribute turbine and positive displacement flow meters, emissions measurement equipment and flow meter calibration products for aerospace, automotive, power generation and other industrial applications.



Water Meter and AMR Products and Systems- We manufacture and distribute water meter products serving the residential, commercial and industrial water management markets, and several lines of automatic meter reading products and systems serving these markets.



The Industrial Technology operating units' sales reflect a combination of standard products and specially engineered, application-specific products. Standard products are typically shipped within two weeks of receipt of order. Application-specific products typically ship within 6 to 12 weeks following receipt of order. However, larger project orders and blanket purchase orders for certain OEMs may extend shipment for longer periods.





RF Technology



Our RF Technology segment provides radio frequency identification ("RFID") communication technology and software solutions that are used primarily in toll and traffic systems and processing, security and access control, campus card systems, software-as-a-service in the freight matching and food industries and metering and remote monitoring applications. These products and solutions are provided through seven operating units. This segment had sales of $848.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2012, representing 28.3% of our total net sales.



Toll and Traffic Systems- We manufacture and sell toll tags and monitoring systems as well as provide transaction and violation processing services for toll and traffic systems to both governmental and private sector entities. In addition, we provide intelligent traffic systems that assist customers in improving traffic flow and infrastructure utilization.



Card Systems/Integrated Security Solutions- We provide card systems and integrated security solutions primarily to education and health care markets. We also provide an integrated nutrition management solution used by food service customers.



Software-as-a-Service -We maintain electronic marketplaces that match 1) available capacity of trucking units with the available loads of freight to be moved from location to location throughout North America and 2) food suppliers, distributors and vendors, primarily in the perishable food sector.



Metering and Remote Monitoring -We manufacture and sell meter reading, data logging and pressure control products for use in water, gas and electricity applications.  We also provide network monitoring, leakage reduction and pressure control services in water and gas distribution networks.



The RF Technology operating units' sales reflect a combination of standard products, large engineered projects, and multi-year operations and maintenance contracts. Standard products generally ship within two weeks of receipt of order, and large engineered projects may have lead times of several months. As such, backlog may fluctuate depending upon the timing of large project awards.





Materials and Suppliers



We believe that most materials and supplies we use are readily available from numerous sources and suppliers throughout the world. However, some of our components and sub-assemblies are currently available from a limited number of suppliers. Some high-performance components for digital imaging products can be in short supply and/or suppliers have occasional difficulty manufacturing such components to our specifications. We regularly investigate and identify alternative sources where possible, and we believe that these conditions equally affect our competitors. Supply shortages have not had a material adverse effect on Roper's sales although delays in shipments have occurred following such supply interruptions.





Backlog



Our policy is to include only firm unfilled orders shippable within twelve months in backlog.  Backlog was $828 million at December 31, 2012, and $785 million at December 31, 2011.





Distribution and Sales



Distribution and sales occur through direct sales offices, manufacturers' representatives and distributors.  In addition, our Medical and Scientific Imaging segment also sells through value added resellers ("VARs") and OEMs.





Environmental Matters and Other Governmental Regulation



Our operations and properties are subject to laws and regulations relating to environmental protection, including those governing air emissions, water discharges, waste management and workplace safety. We use, generate and dispose of hazardous substances and waste in our operations and could be subject to material liabilities relating to the investigation and clean-up of contaminated properties and related claims. We are required to conform our operations and properties to these laws and adapt to regulatory requirements in all countries as these requirements change. In connection with our acquisitions, we may assume significant environmental liabilities, some of which we may not be aware of, or may not be quantifiable, at the time of acquisition. In addition, new laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new requirements could increase our costs or subject us to new or increased liabilities.





Customers



No customer accounted for 10% or more of net sales for 2012 for any of our segments or for Roper as a whole.





Competition



Generally, our products and solutions face significant competition, usually from a limited number of competitors. We believe that we are a leader in most of our markets, and no single company competes with us over a significant number of product lines. Competitors might be large or small in size, often depending on the size of the niche market we serve. We compete primarily on product quality, performance, innovation, technology, price, applications expertise, distribution channel access and customer service capabilities.





Patents and Trademarks



In addition to trade secrets, unpatented know-how, and other intellectual property rights, we own or license the rights under a number of patents, trademarks and copyrights relating to certain of our products and businesses. We also employ various methods, including confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements with individuals and companies we do business with, employees, distributors, representatives and customers to protect our trade secrets and know-how. We believe that our operating units are not substantially dependent on any single patent, trademark, copyright, or other item of intellectual property or group of patents, trademarks or copyrights.





Employees



As of December 31, 2012, we had 9,475 employees, with 6,707 located in the United States. We have 214 employees who are subject to collective bargaining agreements. We have not experienced any work stoppages and consider our relations with our employees to be good.





Available Information



All reports we file electronically with the SEC, including our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and our annual proxy statements, as well as any amendments to those reports, are accessible at no cost on our website at www.roperind.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC.  These filings are also accessible on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. You may also read and copy any material we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Our Corporate Governance Guidelines; the charters of our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, and Nominating and Governance Committee; and our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics are also available on our website.  Any amendment to the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and any waiver applicable to our directors, executive officers or senior financial officers will be posted on our website within the time period required by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange (the "NYSE").  The information posted on our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report.



We have included the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer certifications regarding our public disclosure required by Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 as Exhibits 31.1 and 31.2 of this report. Additionally, we filed with the NYSE the Chief Executive Officer certification regarding our compliance with the NYSE's Corporate Governance Listing Standards (the "Listing Standards") pursuant to Section 303A.12(a) of the Listing Standards. The certification was filed with the NYSE on June 20, 2012 and indicated that the Chief Executive Officer was not aware of any violations of the Listing Standards by the Company.





