Item 1A.Risk Factors

The
statements in this section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully. In addition, these statements constitute our cautionary statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.







Forward Looking Statements

Our disclosure and analysis in this 2009 Form 10-K and in our 2009 Annual Report to shareholders contain some forward-looking statements that
set forth anticipated results based on management’s plans and assumptions. From time to time, we also provide forward-looking statements in other materials we release to the public. Such statements give our current expectations or forecasts of
future events; they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. We have tried, wherever possible, to identify each such statement by using words such as “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,”
“project,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “will,” “target,” “forecast” and similar expressions in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. In
particular, these include statements relating to future actions, future acquisitions or dispositions, future capital expenditure plans, future performance or results of current and anticipated expenses, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, or the
outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings.

We cannot guarantee that any future results discussed in any
forward-looking statements will be realized, although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions. Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and potentially inaccurate assumptions, including those discussed in
the risk factors below. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could differ materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. You should
bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking statements.

We undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking
statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make or related subjects in our reports on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K that we file with the SEC. Also note
that in the following risk factors we provide a cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions relevant to our businesses. These are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we believe could cause our actual
results to differ materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. We note these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. It is not possible to predict or identify all
such risk factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all of the potential risks or uncertainties that could affect our business.

Financial Risks and Risks of Operation

Current economic conditions have already
adversely affected and will continue to adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations.







Current economic conditions have adversely effected the valuation of our hotels which may result in
further impairment charges on our properties.

We analyze our assets for impairment in several situations, including when a
property has current or projected losses from operations, when it becomes more likely than not that a hotel will be sold before the end of its previously estimated useful life, or when other material trends, contingencies or changes in circumstances
indicate that a triggering event has occurred that indicate an asset’s carrying value may not be recoverable. For impaired assets, we record an impairment charge equal to the excess of the property’s carrying value over its fair value. Our
operating results for 2009 included $131 million of impairment charges related to our consolidated hotels and our European joint venture. As a result of continued economic weakness, we may incur additional impairment charges, which will
negatively affect our results of operations. We can provide no assurance that any impairment loss recognized would not be material to our results of operations. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies.”

Our revenues and the value of our properties are also subject to other conditions
affecting the lodging industry.

The lodging industry is subject to changes in the travel patterns of business and leisure
travelers, both of which are affected by the strength of the economy, as discussed above, as well as other factors. Changes in travel patterns of both business and leisure travelers may create difficulties for the industry over the long-term and
adversely affect our results. Our results of operations and any forecast we make, may be affected and can change based on the following risks:



•changes in the international, national, regional and local economic climate;



•changes in business and leisure travel patterns;



•the effect of terrorist attacks and terror alerts in the United States and internationally, as well as other geopolitical disturbances;



•supply growth in markets where we own hotels, which may adversely affect demand at our properties;



•the attractiveness of our hotels to consumers relative to our competition;



•the performance of the managers of our hotels;



•outbreaks of disease;



•changes in room rates and increases in operating costs due to inflation and other factors; and



•unionization of the labor force at our hotels.

Disruptions in the financial markets may adversely affect our business and results of operations, our ability to obtain financing on reasonable and acceptable terms, our ability to hedge our foreign
currency exchange risk and the market price of our common stock.

The United States and global stock and credit markets
have experienced significant price volatility, dislocations and liquidity disruptions, all of which have caused market prices of the stocks of many companies to fluctuate substantially and the spreads on prospective and outstanding debt financings
to widen considerably. These circumstances have materially impacted liquidity in the financial markets, which made terms for certain financings materially less attractive, and, in some cases, resulted in the lack of availability of certain types of
financing. While conditions in the credit markets have improved since their initial disruption, continued uncertainty in the stock and credit markets may negatively impact our ability to access additional short-term and long-term financing on
reasonable terms or at all, which would negatively impact our liquidity and financial condition. A prolonged downturn in the stock or credit markets may cause us to seek alternative sources of potentially less attractive financing and may negatively
impact our ability to enter into derivative contracts in order to hedge risks associated with changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. These







disruptions in the financial markets also may adversely affect our credit rating and the market value of our common stock. While we believe we have adequate sources of liquidity with which to
meet our anticipated requirements for working capital, debt service and capital expenditures for the foreseeable future, if our operating results worsen significantly and our cash flow or capital resources prove inadequate, or if interest rates
increase significantly, we could face liquidity problems that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.

We depend on external sources of capital for future growth and we may be unable to access capital when necessary.

Unlike regular C corporations, we must finance our growth and fund debt repayments largely with external sources of capital because we are required to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our taxable income (other than net capital
gain) in order to qualify as a REIT, including taxable income we recognize for federal income tax purposes but with regard to which we do not receive cash. Our ability to access the external capital we require could be hampered by a number of
factors, many of which are outside of our control, including credit market conditions as discussed above, unfavorable market perception of our growth potential, decreases in our current and estimated future earnings, or decreases in the market price
of Host’s common stock. Our ability to access additional capital also may be limited by the terms of our existing indebtedness, which, under certain circumstances, restrict our incurrence of debt and the payment of distributions. The occurrence
of any of these factors, individually or in combination, could prevent us from being able to obtain the external capital we require on terms that are acceptable to us or at all and the failure to obtain necessary external capital could have a
material adverse effect on our ability to finance our future growth.

We have substantial debt and may incur additional debt.

As of February 17, 2010, we and our subsidiaries had total indebtedness of approximately $5.4 billion. Our
substantial indebtedness has important consequences in that it currently requires us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to debt service payments, which reduces the availability of our cash flow to fund working
capital, capital expenditures, expansion efforts, dividends and other general corporate purposes. Additionally, it could:



•make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness;



•limit our ability in the future to undertake refinancings of our debt or obtain financing for expenditures, acquisitions, development or other general
corporate purposes on terms and conditions acceptable to us, if at all; or



•affect adversely our ability to compete effectively or operate successfully under adverse economic conditions.

If our cash flow and working capital are not sufficient to fund our expenditures or service our indebtedness, we will have to raise
additional funds through:



•sales of our equity;



•the incurrence of additional permitted indebtedness by Host LP; or



•the sale of our assets.

We cannot make any assurances that any of these sources of funds will be available to us or, if available, will be on terms that we would find acceptable or in amounts sufficient to meet our obligations
or fulfill our business plan.







The terms of our debt place restrictions on us and our subsidiaries, which reduce our operational
flexibility and create default risks.

The documents governing the terms of our existing senior notes and our credit
facility contain covenants that place restrictions on us and our subsidiaries. These covenants restrict, among other things, our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to:



•conduct acquisitions, mergers or consolidations, unless the successor entity in such transaction assumes our indebtedness;



•incur additional debt in excess of certain thresholds and without satisfying certain financial metrics;



•create liens securing indebtedness, unless an effective provision is made to secure our other indebtedness by such liens;



•sell assets without using the proceeds from such sales for certain permitted uses or to make an offer to repay or repurchase outstanding indebtedness;



•make capital expenditures in excess of certain thresholds;



•pay dividends without satisfying certain financial metrics; and



•conduct transactions with affiliates other than on an arms length basis and, in certain instances, without obtaining opinions as to the fairness of
such transactions.

Certain covenants in the credit facility also require us and our subsidiaries to meet
financial performance tests. If we fail to meet such tests, the restrictive covenants in the applicable indenture(s), the credit facility and the documents governing our other debt (including our mortgage debt) will reduce our flexibility in
conducting our operations and will limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interest. Failure to comply with these restrictive covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could
result in the acceleration of all or a substantial portion of our debt. For a detailed description of the covenants and restrictions imposed by the documents governing our indebtedness, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Financial Condition”.

Our ability to pay dividends may be limited or prohibited by
the terms of our indebtedness or preferred stock.

We are, and may in the future become, party to agreements and
instruments that restrict or prevent the payment of dividends on our classes and series of capital stock. Under the terms of Host LP’s credit facility and senior notes indenture, distributions to Host by Host LP, upon which Host depends in
order to obtain the cash necessary to pay dividends, are permitted only to the extent that, at the time of the distribution, Host LP can satisfy certain financial covenant tests (concerning leverage, fixed charge coverage and unsecured interest
coverage) and meet other requirements.

Under the terms of our outstanding Class E Preferred Stock, we are not permitted to
pay dividends on our common stock unless all cumulative dividends have been paid (or funds for payment have been set aside for payment). The amount of aggregate dividends that accrue on the Class E Preferred Stock each quarter is approximately
$2.2 million. In the event that we fail to pay the accrued dividends on our Class E Preferred Stock for any reason, including any restriction on paying such dividends under the terms of our debt instruments (as discussed above), dividends will
continue to accrue on such preferred stock and we will be prohibited from paying any dividends on our common stock until all such accrued but unpaid dividends on our Class E Preferred Stock have been paid (or funds for such payment have been set
aside).

Defaulting on our mortgage debt could adversely affect our business.

As of February 17, 2010, 11 of our hotels and assets related thereto are subject to mortgages in an aggregate amount of approximately
$1.1 billion. Although the debt is generally non-recourse to us, if these hotels do not produce adequate cash flow to service the debt secured by such mortgages, the mortgage lenders could call a







default on these assets. Generally, we would expect to negotiate with the lender prior to the occurrence of a default to pursue other options, such as a deed in lieu of foreclosure. However, we
may opt to allow such default to occur rather than make the necessary mortgage payments with funds from other sources. Host LP’s senior notes indenture and credit facility contain cross-default provisions, which, depending upon the amount of
secured debt in default, could cause a cross-default under both of these agreements. Host LP’s credit facility, which contains a more restrictive cross-default provision than the senior notes indenture, provides that a credit facility default
will occur in the event that Host LP defaults on non-recourse secured indebtedness in excess of 1% (or approximately $150 million as of December 31, 2009) of its total assets (using undepreciated real estate book values). For this and
other reasons, permitting a default could adversely affect our long-term business prospects.

Our mortgage debt contains provisions that
may reduce our liquidity.

Certain of our mortgage debt requires that, to the extent cash flow from the hotels which secure
such debt drops below stated levels, we escrow cash flow after the payment of debt service until operations improve above the stated levels. In some cases, the lender has the right under certain circumstances to apply the escrowed amount to the
outstanding balance of the mortgage debt. If such provisions are triggered, there can be no assurance that the affected properties will achieve the minimum cash flow levels required to trigger a release of any escrowed funds. The amounts required to
be escrowed may be material and may negatively affect our liquidity by limiting our access to cash flow after debt service from these mortgaged properties.

An increase in interest rates would increase our interest costs on our credit facility and on any floating rate debt we incur and could adversely impact our ability to refinance existing debt or sell
assets.

Interest payments for borrowings on our credit facility, the mortgages on our Orlando World Center Marriott and JW
Marriott, Washington, D.C. properties and the floating interest rate swaps linked to our Newport Beach Marriott/Ritz-Carlton Naples mortgage are based on floating rates. To the extent that we draw on the credit facility, an increase in interest
rates will reduce our cash flow available for other corporate purposes, including investments in our portfolio. Further, rising interest rates could limit our ability to refinance existing debt when it matures and increase interest costs on any debt
that is refinanced. We may from time to time enter into agreements such as interest rate swaps, caps, floors and other interest rate hedging contracts. While these agreements may lessen the impact of rising interest rates, they also expose us to the
risk that other parties to the agreements will not perform or that the agreements will be unenforceable. In addition, an increase in interest rates could decrease the amount third parties are willing to pay for our assets, thereby limiting our
ability to dispose of assets as part of our business strategy.

Rating agency downgrades may increase our cost of capital.

Our senior notes and our preferred stock are rated by Moody’s Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services and
Fitch Ratings. These independent rating agencies may elect to downgrade their ratings on our senior notes and our preferred stock at any time. Such downgrades may negatively affect our access to the capital markets and increase our cost of capital.

Our expenses may not decrease if our revenue decreases.

Many of the expenses associated with owning and operating hotels, such as debt-service payments, property taxes, insurance, utilities, and employee wages and benefits, are relatively inflexible and do not
necessarily decrease in tandem with a reduction in revenue at the hotels. Our expenses also will be affected by inflationary increases, and certain costs, such as wages, benefits and insurance, may exceed the rate of inflation in any given period
and, in the event of a significant decrease in demand, we may not be able to reduce the size of hotel work-forces in order to decrease wages and benefits. Our managers may be unable to offset any such increased expenses with higher room rates. Any
of our efforts to reduce operating costs or failure to make scheduled capital expenditures also could adversely affect the future growth of our business and the value of our hotel properties.







Our acquisition of additional properties may have a significant effect on our business, liquidity,
financial position and/or results of operations.

As part of our business strategy, we seek to acquire luxury and upper
upscale hotel properties. We may acquire properties through various structures, including transactions involving portfolios, single assets, joint ventures and acquisitions of all or substantially all of the securities or assets of other REITs or
similar real estate entities. We anticipate that our acquisitions will be financed through a combination of methods, including proceeds from Host equity offerings, issuance of limited partnership interests of Host LP, advances under our credit
facility, the incurrence or assumption of indebtedness and proceeds from the sales of assets. Continued disruptions in credit markets may limit our ability to finance acquisitions and may limit the ability of purchasers to finance hotels and
adversely affect our disposition strategy and our ability to use disposition proceeds to finance acquisitions.

We may, from
time to time, be in the process of identifying, analyzing and negotiating possible acquisition transactions and we expect to continue to do so in the future. We cannot provide any assurances that we will be successful in consummating future
acquisitions on favorable terms or that we will realize the benefits that we anticipate from the acquisitions that we consummate. Our inability to consummate one or more acquisitions on such terms, or our failure to realize the intended benefits
from one or more acquisitions, could have a significant adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial position and/or results of operations, including as a result of our incurrence of additional indebtedness and related interest expense and
our assumption of unforeseen contingent liabilities.

We do not control our hotel operations and we are dependent on the managers of our
hotels.

We are subject to risks associated with the employment of hotel personnel, particularly with hotels that employ unionized labor.

We have entered into management agreements with third-party managers to operate our hotel properties. Our third-party
managers are responsible for hiring and maintaining the labor force at each of our hotels. Although we do not directly employ or manage employees at our consolidated hotels, we are subject to many of the costs and risks generally associated with the
hotel labor force, particularly those hotels with unionized labor. From time to time, hotel operations may be disrupted as a result of strikes, lockouts, public demonstrations or other negative actions and publicity. We also may incur increased
legal costs and indirect labor costs as a result of contract disputes or other events. Additionally, hotels where our managers have collective bargaining agreements with employees (approximately 21% of our current portfolio, by revenues) are more
highly affected







by labor force activities than others. The resolution of labor disputes or re-negotiated labor contracts could lead to increased labor costs, either by increases in wages or benefits or by
changes in work rules that raise hotel operating costs. Furthermore, labor agreements may limit the ability of our managers to reduce the size of hotel workforces during an economic downturn because collective bargaining agreements are negotiated
between the managers of our hotels and labor unions. We do not have the ability to control the outcome of these negotiations.

Our hotels
have an ongoing need for renovations and potentially significant capital expenditures in order to remain competitive in the marketplace, maintain brand standards or to comply with applicable laws or regulations. The timing and costs of such
renovations or improvements may result in reduced operating performance during construction and may not improve the return on these investments.

In addition to capital expenditures required by our loan agreements or agreements with our hotel managers, we will need to make capital expenditures in order to remain competitive with other hotels, to
maintain the economic value of our hotels and to comply with applicable laws and regulations. The timing of these improvements can affect hotel performance, particularly if the improvements require closures of a significant number of rooms or other
features of the hotels, such as ballrooms, meeting space and restaurants. These capital improvements reduce the availability of cash for other purposes and are subject to cost overruns and delays. In addition, because we depend on external sources
of capital, we may not have the necessary funds to invest and, if we fail to maintain our properties in accordance with brand standards set by our managers, the manager may terminate the management agreement. Moreover, we may not necessarily realize
a significant, or any, improvement in the performance of the hotels in which we make these investments.

The ownership of hotels outside
the United States and the expansion of our business into new markets outside of the United States will expose us to risks relating to owning hotels in those international markets.

Part of our business strategy is to expand our presence internationally through joint ventures. We currently own directly seven hotels
located outside the United States and are a party to joint ventures that own 11 hotels in Europe. We also are a party to another joint venture through which we are exploring investment opportunities throughout Asia and Australia. We may have
difficulty managing our expansion into new geographic markets where we have limited knowledge and understanding of the local economy, an absence of business relationships in the area, or unfamiliarity with local governmental and permitting
procedures and regulations. There are risks inherent in conducting business internationally, which include:



•employment laws and practices;



•tax laws which may provide for income or other tax rates that exceed those of the U.S. and which may provide that our foreign earnings are subject to
dividend withholding requirements or other restrictions;



•compliance with and unexpected changes in regulatory requirements or monetary policy;



•the willingness of domestic or foreign lenders to provide financing and changes in the availability, cost and terms of such financing;



•adverse changes in local, political, economic and market conditions;



•insurance coverage related to terrorist events;



•changes in interest rates and/or the currency exchange rates;



•regulations regarding the incurrence of debts; and



•difficulties in complying with U.S. rules governing REITs while operating internationally.

Any of these factors could adversely affect our ability to obtain all of the intended benefits of our international expansion. If we do not
effectively manage our geographic expansion and successfully integrate the foreign hotels into our organization, our operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected.







We may acquire hotel properties through joint ventures with third parties that could result in conflicts.

We have made a significant investment in a European joint venture which owns 11 hotels in Europe and have formed another
joint venture to explore investment opportunities in Asia and Australia. We may, from time to time, invest as a co-venturer in other entities holding hotel properties instead of purchasing hotel properties directly. Co-venturers often share control
over the operation of a joint venture. Actions by a co-venturer could subject the assets to additional risk as a result of any of the following circumstances:



•our co-venturer might have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our, or the joint venture’s, interests or goals; or



•our co-venturer may be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives.

Although we generally will seek to maintain sufficient control of any joint venture in order to permit our
objectives to be achieved, we might not be able to take action without the approval of our joint venture partners.

Our management
agreements could affect the sale or financing of our hotels.

Under the terms of our management agreements, we generally may
not sell, lease or otherwise transfer our hotels unless the transferee is not a competitor of the manager and the transferee assumes the related management agreements and meets specified other conditions. Our ability to finance or sell our
properties, depending upon the structure of such transactions, may require the manager’s consent. If the manager does not consent to such sale or financing, we may be precluded from taking actions in our best interest.

Future terrorist attacks or changes in terror alert levels could adversely affect us.

Previous terrorist attacks in the United States and subsequent terrorist alerts have adversely affected the travel and hospitality industries
over the past several years. The impact that terrorist attacks in the United States or elsewhere could have on domestic and international markets and our business in particular is indeterminable, but it is possible that such attacks or the threat of
such attacks could have a material adverse effect on our business, our ability to finance our business, our ability to insure our properties and/or our results of operations and financial condition as a whole.

We may not be able to recover fully under our existing terrorism insurance for losses caused by some types of terrorist acts, and federal terrorism
legislation does not ensure that we will be able to obtain terrorism insurance in adequate amounts or at acceptable premium levels in the future.







We may be unable to satisfy the insurance requirements of our lenders.

Some potential losses are not
covered by insurance.

In addition, there are other risks, such as certain environmental hazards, that may be deemed to fall completely outside the general coverage limits of our policies or may be uninsurable or too expensive
to justify coverage. We also may encounter challenges with an insurance provider regarding whether it will pay a particular claim that we believe to be covered under our policy. Should a loss in excess of insured limits or an







uninsured loss occur, or should we be unsuccessful in obtaining coverage from an insurance carrier, we could lose all or a part of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the
anticipated future revenue from the hotel. In that event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property.

Finally, the current disruption in financial markets makes it more difficult to evaluate the stability and net assets or capitalization of
insurance companies and any insurer’s ability to meet its claim payment obligations.

Litigation judgments or settlements could have a
significant adverse effect on our financial condition.

We are involved in various legal proceedings in the normal course
of business. We are vigorously defending each of these claims. On February 8, 2010, we received an adverse jury verdict in a trial in the 166th Judicial District Court of Bexar County, Texas involving the sale of land encumbered by a ground
lease for the San Antonio Marriott Rivercenter. See “Legal Proceedings” for more information on the verdict and see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Other Income
Statement Line Items” for a discussion of the fourth quarter 2009 litigation accrual. There are no other claims seeking relief that, if granted, would have a significant effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We could,
however, become the subject of claims by the operators of our hotels, individuals or companies who use our hotels, our investors, our joint venture partners or regulating entities, which could have a significant adverse effect on our financial
condition and performance.

We may be subject to unknown or contingent liabilities related to hotels or businesses we acquire.

We depend on our key
personnel.

Our success depends on the efforts of our executive officers and other key personnel. None of our key personnel
have employment agreements and we do not maintain key person life insurance for any of our executive officers. We cannot assure you that these key personnel will remain employed by us. While we believe that we could find replacements for these key
personnel, the loss of their services could have a significant adverse effect on our financial performance.

Exchange rate fluctuations
could adversely affect our financial results.

As a result of the expansion of our international operations, currency
exchange rate fluctuations could affect our results of operations and financial position. We expect to generate an increasing portion of our revenue and expenses in such foreign currencies as the Euro, the Canadian Dollar, the Mexican Peso, the
British Pound, the







Polish Zloty and the Chilean Peso. Although we may enter into foreign exchange agreements with financial institutions in order to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in the value of these and
other foreign currencies, these hedging transactions, if entered into, will not eliminate that risk entirely. To the extent that we are unable to match revenue received in foreign currencies with costs paid in the same currency, exchange rate
fluctuations could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, because our consolidated financial results are reported in U.S. Dollars, if we generate revenues or earnings in other currencies, the
conversion of those results into U.S. Dollars can result in an increase or decrease in the amount of those revenues or earnings.

Applicable REIT laws may restrict certain business activities.

As a REIT, Host is subject to various
restrictions on its income, assets and activities. Business activities that could be impacted by applicable REIT laws include, but are not limited to, activities such as developing alternative uses of real estate, including the development and/or
sale of timeshare or condominium units. Due to these restrictions, we anticipate that we will conduct certain business activities, including those mentioned above, in one or more of our taxable REIT subsidiaries. Our taxable REIT subsidiaries are
taxable as regular C corporations and are subject to federal, state, local, and, if applicable, foreign taxation on their taxable income.

We may be unable to sell properties because real estate investments are inherently illiquid.

Real estate
properties generally cannot be sold quickly and, accordingly, we may not be able to vary our portfolio promptly in response to economic or other conditions. The inability to respond promptly to changes in the performance of our investments could
adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to service our debt. In addition, under the federal income tax laws applicable to REITs, we may be limited in our ability to recognize the full economic benefit from a sale of our assets.

Our ground lease payments may increase faster than the revenues we receive on the hotels situated on the leased properties.

As of December 31, 2009, 35 of our hotels are subject to third-party ground leases (encumbering all or a portion of
the hotel). These ground leases generally require periodic increases in ground rent payments, which payments are often based on economic indicators such as the Consumer Price Index. Our ability to pay ground rent could be adversely affected to the
extent that our hotel revenues do not increase at the same or a greater rate than the increases in rental payments under the ground leases. In addition, if we were to sell a hotel encumbered by a ground lease, the buyer would have to assume the
ground lease, which may result in a lower sales price.

Environmental problems are possible and can be costly.







building. These laws may impose fines and penalties on building owners or operators who fail to comply with these requirements and may allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or
operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos fibers.

Compliance with other government regulations can be costly.

Our hotels are subject to various other forms of regulation, including Title III of the Americans with Disabilities Act,
building codes and regulations pertaining to fire and life safety. Compliance with those laws and regulations could require substantial capital expenditures. These regulations may be changed from time-to-time, or new regulations adopted, resulting
in additional costs of compliance, including potential litigation. Any increased costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

The acquisition contracts relating to some hotels limit our ability to sell or refinance those hotels.

For reasons relating to federal and state income tax considerations of the former and current owners of three hotels, we have agreed to restrictions on selling the hotels, or repaying or refinancing the
mortgage debt for varying periods, depending on the hotel. Two of these agreements will expire in 2010 and the third will expire in 2028. As a result, even if it were in our best interest to sell these hotels or repay or otherwise reduce the level
of the mortgage debt on such hotels, it may be difficult or costly to do so during their respective lock-out periods. In specified circumstances, we may agree to similar restrictions in connection with future hotel acquisitions.

Risks of Ownership of Host’s Common Stock

There are limitations on the acquisition of Host common stock and changes in control.

Host’s charter and
bylaws, the partnership agreement of Host LP, and the Maryland General Corporation Law contain a number of provisions, the exercise or existence of which could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium
price for our stockholders or Host LP unit holders or otherwise be in their best interests, including the following:



•Restrictions on transfer and ownership of Host’s stock.To maintain Host’s qualification as a REIT for federal
income tax purposes, not more than 50% in value of Host’s outstanding shares of capital stock may be owned in the last half of the taxable year, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals, which, as defined in the Internal Revenue
Code (the “Code”), may include certain entities. Because such ownership could jeopardize Host’s qualification as a REIT, a person cannot own, directly or by attribution, 10% or more of an interest in a Host lessee, nor can a Host
lessee of any partnership in which Host is a partner own, directly or by attribution, 10% or more of Host’s shares, in each case unless exempted by Host’s Board of Directors.

Host’s charter prohibits ownership, directly or by virtue of the attribution provisions of the Code, by any person or persons acting as
a group, of more than 9.8% in value or number, whichever is more restrictive, of shares of Host’s outstanding common stock, preferred stock or any other stock, each considered as a separate class or series for this purpose. Together, these
limitations are referred to as the “ownership limit.”

Stock acquired or held in violation of the ownership limit
will be transferred automatically to a trust for the benefit of a designated charitable beneficiary, and the intended acquiror of the stock in violation of the ownership limit will not be entitled to any distributions thereon, to vote those shares
of stock or to receive any proceeds from the subsequent sale of the stock in excess of the lesser of the price paid for the stock or the amount realized from the sale. A transfer of shares of Host’s stock to a person who, as a result of the
transfer, violates the ownership limit may be void under certain circumstances, and, in any event, would deny that person any of the economic benefits of owning shares of Host’s stock in excess of the ownership limit. These restrictions on
transfer and ownership will not apply if Host’s Board of Directors determines that it is no longer in our best interests to continue to qualify as a REIT or that compliance with the restrictions on transfer is no longer required for Host to
qualify as a REIT.







•Removal of Board of Directors.Host’s charter provides that, except for any directors who may be elected by holders
of a class or series of shares of capital stock other than common stock, directors may be removed only for cause and only by the affirmative vote of stockholders holding at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast in the election of
directors. Vacancies on Host’s Board of Directors may be filled by the affirmative vote of the remaining directors (except that a vacancy resulting from an increase in the number of directors may be filled by a majority vote of the entire Board
of Directors) and, in the case of a vacancy resulting from the removal of a director, by the stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of votes entitled to be cast in the election of directors.



•Preferred shares; classification or reclassification of unissued shares of capital stock without stockholder
approval.Host’s charter provides that the total number of shares of stock of all classes that we have authority to issue is 1,100,000,000, consisting of 1,050,000,000 shares of common stock and 50,000,000 shares of
preferred stock. Host’s Board of Directors has the authority, without a vote of stockholders, to classify or reclassify any unissued shares of stock, including common stock into preferred stock or vice versa, and to establish the preferences
and rights of any preferred or other class or series of shares to be issued. Because the Board of Directors has the power to establish the preferences and rights of additional classes or series of stock without a stockholder vote, Host’s Board
of Directors may give the holders of any class or series of stock preferences, powers and rights, including voting rights, senior to the rights of holders of existing stock.





•



Maryland business combination law.



•Maryland control share acquisition law.Under the Maryland General Corporation Law, “control shares” acquired
in a “control share acquisition” have no voting rights except to the extent approved by the affirmative vote of holders of two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding shares owned by the acquiror, by officers or by
directors who are employees of the corporation. “Control shares” are voting shares which, if aggregated with all other voting shares owned by the acquiror or over which the acquiror is able to exercise or direct the exercise of voting
power (except solely by virtue of a revocable proxy), would entitle the acquiror to exercise voting power in electing directors within one of the following ranges of voting power: (1) one-tenth or more but less than one-third,
(2) one-third or more but less than a majority or (3) a majority or more of the voting power. Control shares do not include shares the acquiring person is then entitled to vote as a result of having previously obtained stockholder
approval. A “control share acquisition” means the acquisition of control shares, subject to specified exceptions. Our bylaws contain a provision exempting us from the control share provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law. There
can be no assurance that this provision will not be amended or eliminated at any time in the future.







•Merger, consolidation, share exchange and transfer of Host’s assets.Under Maryland law and Host’s charter,
subject to the terms of any outstanding class or series of capital stock, we can merge with or into another entity, consolidate with one or more other entities, participate in a share exchange or transfer Host’s assets within the meaning of the
Maryland General Corporation Law if approved (1) by Host’s Board of Directors in the manner provided in the Maryland General Corporation Law and (2) by Host’s stockholders holding two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast
on the matter, except that any merger of Host with or into a trust organized for the purpose of changing Host’s form of organization from a corporation to a trust requires only the approval of Host’s stockholders holding a majority of all
votes entitled to be cast on the merger. Under the Maryland General Corporation Law, specified mergers may be approved without a vote of stockholders and a share exchange is only required to be approved by a Maryland corporation by its board of
directors if the corporation is the successor entity. Host’s voluntary dissolution also would require approval of stockholders holding two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter.



•Certain charter and bylaw amendments.Host’s charter contains provisions relating to restrictions on transfer and
ownership of Host’s stock, fixing the size of the Board of Directors within the range set forth in the charter, removal of directors, the filling of vacancies, exculpation and indemnification of directors, calling special stockholder meetings
and others, all of which may be amended only by a resolution adopted by the Board of Directors and approved by Host’s stockholders holding two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter. Other charter amendments generally require
approval of the Board and the affirmative vote of holders of a majority of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter. As permitted under the Maryland General Corporation Law, Host’s bylaws provide that directors have the exclusive right to
amend Host’s bylaws. These provisions may make it more difficult to amend Host’s charter and bylaws to alter the provisions described herein that could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control or the acquisition of Host
common stock, without the approval of the Board of Directors.

Shares of Host’s common stock that are or become
available for sale could affect the share price of Host’s common stock.

Sales of a substantial number of shares of
Host’s common stock, or the perception that sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices for Host’s common stock. In addition, holders of units of limited partnership interest of Host LP, whose OP units may be
redeemed, at Host’s election, in exchange for common stock, will be able to sell those shares freely, unless the person is our affiliate and resale of the affiliate’s shares is not covered by an effective registration statement. As of
December 31, 2009, there are approximately 11.7 million OP units outstanding that are redeemable, at Host’s election, for Host common stock. Further, a substantial number of shares of Host’s common stock have been and will be
issued or reserved for issuance from time to time under our employee benefit plans. We maintain two stock based compensation plans: the comprehensive stock plan, whereby we may award to participating employees and directors (i) restricted
shares of common stock, (ii) options to purchase common stock and (iii) deferred shares of common stock, and an employee stock purchase plan. At December 31, 2009, there were approximately 19.2 million shares of common stock
reserved and available for issuance under the comprehensive stock plan, and there were 5.7 million shares of restricted stock outstanding and 0.5 million options exercisable with a weighted average exercise price of $5.46 per share.

Also as of December 31, 2009, Host LP has outstanding $1,251 million principal amount of exchangeable senior
debentures that could become exchangeable under certain conditions for shares of Host common stock. The principal portion for $526 million face amount of such exchangeable debentures is cash-settled, and therefore no shares would be issued
unless our share price exceeded the exchange rate for this series of debentures of $31.23 as of December 31, 2009. For another $400 million of such exchangeable debentures, Host has the option to issue cash, shares of Host common stock or
any combination thereof in settlement of the debentures should they be presented for exchange.







In August 2009, Host entered into a Sales Agency Financing Agreement with BNY Mellon Capital
Markets, LLC, through which Host may issue and sell, from time to time, shares of common stock having an aggregate offering price of up to $400 million in “at the market” offerings. As of December 31, 2009, 28 million shares of
common stock have been issued and sold pursuant to the program, and shares of common stock having an aggregate offering price of approximately $110 million remain issuable from time to time under the agreement. Any additional shares of common
stock issued by Host, whether issued under this program or otherwise, would be available in the future for sale in the public markets. We can make no prediction about the effect that future sales of common stock would have on the market price of
Host common stock.

Our earnings and cash distributions will affect the market price of shares of Host’s common stock.

We believe that the market value of a REIT’s equity securities is based primarily upon the market’s perception of the
REIT’s growth potential and its current and potential future cash distributions, whether from operations, sales, acquisitions, development or refinancings, and is secondarily based upon the value of the underlying assets. For that reason,
shares of Host’s common stock may trade at prices that are higher or lower than the net asset value per share. To the extent we retain operating cash flow for investment purposes, working capital reserves or other purposes rather than
distributing the cash flow to stockholders, these retained funds, while increasing the value of our underlying assets, may negatively impact the market price of Host’s common stock. Our failure to meet the market’s expectation with regard
to future earnings and cash distributions would likely adversely affect the market price of Host’s common stock.

Market interest
rates may affect the price of shares of Host’s common stock.

We believe that one of the factors that investors
consider important in deciding whether to buy or sell shares of a REIT is the dividend rate on the shares, considered as a percentage of the price of the shares, relative to market interest rates. If market interest rates increase, prospective
purchasers of REIT shares may expect a higher dividend rate. Thus, higher market interest rates could cause the market price of Host’s stock to decrease.

Federal Income Tax Risks

To qualify as a REIT, each of Host and its subsidiary REITs
are required to distribute at least 90% of its taxable income, excluding net capital gain, regardless of available cash or outstanding obligations.







Host owns, through Host LP, 100% of the outstanding common stock (and a portion of the
outstanding preferred stock) of two entities that have elected to be treated as REITs. Each of these subsidiary REITs of Host will be subject to the same requirements that Host must satisfy in order to qualify as a REIT, including the distribution
requirements described above.

Adverse tax consequences would apply if Host or any of its subsidiary REITs fail to qualify as a REIT.

Any determination that Host or one of its subsidiary REITs does not qualify as a REIT would have a material adverse effect on our results
of operations and could materially reduce the value of our common stock. The additional tax liability of Host or the subsidiary REIT for the year, or years, in which the relevant entity did not qualify as a REIT would reduce its net earnings
available for investment, debt service or distributions to stockholders. Furthermore, the non-qualifying entity would no longer be required to make any distributions to stockholders as a condition to REIT qualification and all of its distributions
to stockholders would be taxable as ordinary C corporation dividends to the extent of its current and accumulated earnings and profits. This means that if Host were to fail to qualify as a REIT, Host’s stockholders currently taxed as
individuals would be taxed on those dividends at capital gain rates and our corporate stockholders generally would be entitled to the dividends received deduction with respect to such dividends, subject in each case to applicable limitations under
the Code. Host’s failure to qualify as a REIT also would cause an event of default under Host LP’s credit facility that could lead to an acceleration of the amounts due under the credit facility, which, in turn, would constitute an event
of default under Host LP’s outstanding debt securities.

If our leases are not respected as true leases for federal income tax
purposes, each of Host and its subsidiary REITs would fail to qualify as a REIT.

To qualify as a REIT, Host must satisfy
two gross income tests, pursuant to which specified percentages of our gross income must be passive income, such as rent. For the rent paid pursuant to the hotel leases with our TRS subsidiaries, which currently constitutes substantially all of
Host’s and each of our subsidiary REITs’ gross income, to qualify for purposes of the gross income tests, the leases must be respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes and must not be treated as service contracts, joint
ventures or some other type of arrangement. We believe that the leases will be respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes. There can be no assurance, however, that the IRS will agree with this characterization. If the leases were not
respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes, neither Host nor any of our subsidiary REITs would be able to satisfy either of the two gross income tests applicable to REITs and each would likely lose its REIT status.







If our affiliated lessees fail to qualify as taxable REIT subsidiaries, each of Host and its subsidiary
REITs would fail to qualify as a REIT.

Rent paid by a lessee that is a “related party tenant” of Host will not
be qualifying income for purposes of the two gross income tests applicable to REITs. We lease substantially all of our hotels to our subsidiary that is taxable as a regular C corporation and that has elected to be treated as a taxable REIT
subsidiary with respect to Host. So long as any affiliated lessee qualifies as a taxable REIT subsidiary, it will not be treated as a “related party tenant.” We believe that our affiliated lessees have qualified and will continue to
qualify, and that the taxable REIT subsidiaries of our subsidiary REITs have qualified and will continue to qualify, to be treated as taxable REIT subsidiaries for federal income tax purposes. There can be no assurance, however, that the IRS will
not challenge the status of a taxable REIT subsidiary for federal income tax purposes or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. If the IRS were successful in disqualifying any of our affiliated lessees (including the taxable REIT
subsidiaries of our subsidiary REITs) from treatment as a taxable REIT subsidiary, it is possible that Host or a subsidiary REIT would fail to meet the asset tests applicable to REITs and substantially all of its income would fail to qualify for the
gross income tests. If Host or a subsidiary REIT failed to meet either the asset or gross income tests, each would likely lose its REIT status.

Despite the REIT status of each of Host and its subsidiary REITs, we remain subject to various taxes.

One of
Host’s subsidiary REITs will be required to pay federal income tax at the highest regular corporate rate on “built-in gain” recognized as a result of any sale of a hotel asset before the expiration of the applicable 10-year holding
period of assets, including certain hotels acquired from Starwood and its affiliates in 2006. The total amount of gain on which the subsidiary REIT would be subject to corporate income tax if all of its built-in gain assets were sold in a taxable
transaction prior to the expiration of the applicable 10-year holding period would be material to it. In addition, we expect that we could recognize other substantial deferred tax liabilities in the future without any corresponding receipt of cash.

Notwithstanding its status as a REIT, Host and our subsidiaries (including our subsidiary REITs) will be subject to some
federal, state, local and foreign taxes on their income and property. For example, Host and our subsidiary REITs will pay tax on certain types of income that are not distributed and will be subject to a 100% excise tax on transactions with a taxable
REIT subsidiary that are not conducted on an arm’s length basis. Moreover, the taxable REIT subsidiaries of Host and our subsidiary REITs are taxable as regular C corporations and will pay federal, state and local income tax on their net income
at the applicable corporate rates, and foreign taxes to the extent they own assets or conduct operations in foreign jurisdictions.

Host LP is obligated under its partnership agreement to pay all such taxes (and any related interest and penalties) incurred by Host.

If the IRS were to challenge successfully Host LP’s status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, Host would cease to qualify as a REIT and suffer other adverse consequences.

We believe that Host LP qualifies to be treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. As a partnership, it is not subject to
federal income tax on its income. Instead, each of its partners, including Host, is required to pay tax on such partner’s allocable share of its income. No assurance can be provided, however, that the IRS will not challenge Host LP’s
status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. If the IRS were successful in treating Host LP as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, Host would fail to meet the gross income
tests and certain of the asset tests applicable to REITs and, accordingly, cease to qualify as a REIT. If Host LP fails to qualify as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or Host fails to qualify as a REIT, either failure would cause an
event of default under Host LP’s credit facility that, in turn, could constitute an event of default under Host LP’s outstanding debt securities. Also, the failure of Host LP to qualify as a partnership for federal income tax purposes
would cause it to become subject to federal, state and foreign corporate income tax, which would reduce significantly the amount of cash available for debt service and for distribution to its partners, including Host.







As a REIT, each of Host and its subsidiary REITs is subject to limitations on its ownership of debt and
equity securities.

Subject to certain exceptions, a REIT is generally prohibited from owning securities in any one issuer
to the extent that (1) the value of those securities exceeds 5% of the value of the REIT’s total assets, (2) the securities owned by the REIT represent more than 10% of the issuer’s outstanding voting securities, or (3) the
REIT owns more than 10% of the value of the issuer’s outstanding securities. A REIT is permitted to own securities of a subsidiary in an amount that exceeds the 5% value test and the 10% vote or value test if the subsidiary elects to be a
taxable REIT subsidiary. However, a REIT may not own securities of taxable REIT subsidiaries that represent in the aggregate more than 25% of the value of the REIT’s total assets. If Host or any of its subsidiary REITs were to violate these
ownership limitations, each would likely lose its REIT status.

Each of Host or its subsidiary REITs may be required to pay a penalty tax
upon the sale of a hotel.

The federal income tax provisions applicable to REITs provide that any gain realized by a REIT
on the sale of property held as inventory or other property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business is treated as income from a “prohibited transaction” that is subject to a 100% excise tax. Under existing
law, whether property, including hotels, is held as inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business is a question of fact that depends upon all of the facts and circumstances with respect to the particular
transaction. We intend to hold our hotels for investment with a view to long-term appreciation, to engage in the business of acquiring and owning hotels and to make occasional sales of hotels consistent with our investment objectives. There can be
no assurance, however, that the IRS might not contend that one or more of these sales are subject to the 100% excise tax.



