
10-K


                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                          WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                         Form 10-K Annual Report

PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT      
                        
                             OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997     Commission file    
                                                
                                                 number 1-6571
                    SCHERING-PLOUGH CORPORATION

Incorporated in New Jersey                         22-1918501
One Giralda Farms                            (I.R.S. Employer
Madison, New Jersey 07940-1000               Identification No.)
(973) 822-7000 (telephone number)

Securities registered pursuant to section 12(b) of the Act:

                                           Name of each exchange
Title of each class                          on which registered

Common Shares, $1 par value               New York Stock Exchange

Preferred Share Purchase Rights*          New York Stock Exchange

*At the time of filing, the Rights were not traded separately 
from the Common Shares.

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed all 
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months 
and has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 
days.
                                          YES   X        NO      

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers 
pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, 
and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, 
in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by 
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this 
Form 10-K.    X   

Common shares outstanding as of January 30, 1998:     732,902,378

Aggregate market value of common shares at January 30, 1998 held 
by non-affiliates based on closing price:     $53 billion.

                                              Part of Form 10-K
Documents incorporated by reference           incorporated into

Schering-Plough Corporation 1997              Parts I, II and IV
Annual Report to Shareholders

Schering-Plough Corporation Proxy             Part III
Statement for the annual meeting of
shareholders on April 28, 1998



                               Part I            
Item 1.  Business

General

The terms "Schering-Plough" and the "Company," as used herein, 
refer to Schering-Plough Corporation and its subsidiaries, except 
as otherwise indicated by the context.  Schering-Plough 
Corporation is a holding company which was incorporated in 1970. 
Subsidiaries of Schering-Plough Corporation are engaged in the 
discovery, development, manufacturing and marketing of 
pharmaceutical and health care products worldwide.  Products 
include prescription drugs, animal health, foot care, sun care 
and over-the-counter (OTC) products.

Business Segment and Other Financial Information

The "Business Segment Data" as set forth in the Notes to 
Consolidated Financial Statements in the Company's 1997 Annual 
Report to Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference. Sales 
by major product groups for continuing operations for each of the 
three years in the period ended December 31, 1997 were as follows 
(dollars in millions):


                                  1997      1996      1995  
Allergy/Respiratory              $2,708    $2,113    $1,834
Anti-infective and Anticancer     1,156     1,135     1,031    
Dermatologicals                     571       560       515     
Cardiovasculars                     637       533       408      
Other Pharmaceuticals               649       512       493      
Animal Health                       389       196       190      
Foot Care                           300       261       240      
Sun Care                            148       123       127      
OTC                                 208       210       250
Other Health Care Products           12        13        16
     
Consolidated Sales               $6,778    $5,656    $5,104		

In June 1997, the Company purchased the worldwide animal health 
operations of Mallinckrodt Inc. The acquisition was recorded 
under the purchase method of accounting at a cost of 
approximately $490 million, which includes the assumption of debt 
and direct costs of the acquisition.

Pharmaceutical Products

The Company's pharmaceutical operations include prescription 
drugs and animal health products.  Prescription products include: 
CLARITIN, CLARITIN-D, PROVENTIL, THEO-DUR, VANCENASE and 
VANCERIL, allergy/respiratory; CEDAX, EULEXIN, GARAMYCIN, 
INTRON A, and NETROMYCIN, anti-infective and anticancer; 
DIPROLENE, DIPROSONE, ELOCON, and LOTRISONE, dermatologicals; 
IMDUR, K-DUR, NITRO-DUR and NORMODYNE, cardiovasculars; 
CELESTONE, LOSEC, and SUBUTEX, other pharmaceuticals. Animal 
health biological and pharmaceutical products include 
anthelmintics, antibiotics, vaccines, anti-arthritics, steroids 
and nutritionals. Animal health products include:  GENTOCIN and  
NUFLOR, antibiotics; BANAMINE, an anti-arthritic; RALGRO, a 
growth promotant; TRIBRISSEN, an antimicrobial; OTOMAX, a steroid 
ointment and OPTIMMUNE, an ophthalmic ointment.

Prescription drugs are introduced and made known to physicians, 
pharmacists, hospitals and managed care organizations by trained 
professional service representatives, and are sold to hospitals, 
managed care organizations and wholesale and retail druggists.  
Pharmaceutical products are also promoted through journal 
advertising, direct mail advertising, consumer advertising and by 
distributing samples to physicians.  Animal health products are 
promoted and sold by a separate sales force to veterinarians, 
distributors and animal producers.

The Company's subsidiaries own (or have licensed rights under) a 
number of patents and patent applications, both in the United 
States and abroad.  In the aggregate, patents and patent 
applications are believed to be of material importance to the 
operations of the pharmaceutical segment.

Raw materials essential to this segment are available in adequate 
quantities from a number of potential suppliers.  Energy was and 
is expected to be available to the Company in sufficient 
quantities to meet operating requirements.

Worldwide, the Company's pharmaceutical products are sold under 
trademarks.  Trademarks are considered in the aggregate to be of 
material importance to the pharmaceutical business and are 
protected by registration or common law in the United States and 
most other markets where the products are sold or likely to be 
sold.

Seasonal patterns do not have a pronounced effect on the combined 
activities of this industry segment.

There is generally no significant backlog of orders since the 
Company's business is normally conducted on an immediate shipment 
basis.

The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and includes 
other large companies with substantial resources for research, 
product development and promotion.  There are numerous domestic 
and international competitors in this industry.  Some of the 
principal competitive techniques used by the Company for its 
pharmaceutical products include research and development of new 
and improved products, high product quality, varied dosage forms 
and strengths and disease management programs.  In the United 
States, many of the Company's pharmaceutical products are subject 
to increasingly competitive pricing as managed care groups, 
institutions, government agencies and other buying groups seek 
price discounts and rebates.

Health Care Products

The product categories in the health care segment are foot care, 
sun care and OTC products primarily sold in the United States.  
Products include: CLEAR AWAY wart remover; DR. SCHOLL'S foot care 
products; LOTRIMIN AF and TINACTIN antifungals; COPPERTONE and 
SOLARCAINE sun care products;   AFRIN  nasal decongestant; CHLOR-
TRIMETON antihistamine; CORICIDIN and DRIXORAL cold and 
decongestant products; CORRECTOL laxative; GYNE-LOTRIMIN for 
vaginal yeast infections; A & D ointment; and PAAS egg coloring 
products. Business in this segment is conducted through wholesale 
and retail drug, food chain and variety outlets, and is promoted 
directly to the consumer through television, radio, print and 
other advertising media.

Raw materials essential to this segment are available in adequate 
quantities from a number of potential suppliers.  Energy was and 
is expected to be available to the Company in sufficient 
quantities to meet operating requirements.

Trademarks for the major products included in this segment are 
registered in the United States and some overseas countries where 
these products are marketed.  Trademarks are considered to be 
very important to the operations of this segment.

Principally due to the seasonal sales of sun care products, 
operating profits in this segment are relatively higher in the 
first half of the year.

There is generally no significant backlog of orders since the 
Company's business is normally conducted on an immediate shipment 
basis.

The health care products' industry is highly competitive and 
includes other large companies with substantial resources for 
product development and promotion.  There are several dozen 
significant competitors in this industry.  The Company believes 
that in the United States it has a leading position in the foot 
care and sun care industries, with its DR. SCHOLL'S lines of foot 
insoles, cushions, wart removal and other treatments and its 
brands of sun care products.  In addition, the Company's brands 
are among the leaders in nasal sprays and antifungals sold OTC.  
The principal competitive techniques used by the Company in this 
industry segment include the development and introduction of new 
and improved products, switching prescription products to OTC 
medicines, and product promotion methods to gain and retain 
consumer acceptance.




Foreign Operations

Foreign activities are carried out primarily through wholly-owned 
subsidiaries wherever market potential is adequate and circum-
stances permit.  In addition, the Company is represented in some 
markets through joint ventures, licensees or other distribution 
arrangements.  There are approximately 12,300 employees outside 
the United States. 

Foreign operations are subject to certain risks which are 
inherent in conducting business overseas.  These risks include 
possible nationalization, expropriation, importation limitations 
and other restrictive governmental actions.  Also, fluctuations 
in foreign currency exchange rates can impact the Company's 
consolidated financial results.  For additional information on 
foreign operations, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of 
Operations and Financial Condition", "Financial Instruments" and 
"Business Segment Data" in the Company's 1997 Annual Report to 
Shareholders which is incorporated herein by reference.  

Research and Development

The Company's research activities are primarily aimed at 
discovering and developing new and enhanced pharmaceutical 
products of medical and  commercial significance.  Company 
sponsored research and development expenditures were $847 
million, $723 million and $657 million in 1997, 1996, and 1995, 
respectively.  Research expenditures represented approximately 13 
percent of consolidated sales in each of the three years.

The Company's pharmaceutical research activities are concentrated 
in the therapeutic areas of allergic and inflammatory disorders, 
infectious and cardiovascular diseases, oncology and central 
nervous system disorders.  The Company also has substantial 
efforts directed toward biotechnology, gene therapy and 
immunology.  Research activities include expenditures for both 
internal research efforts and research collaborations with 
various partners.  

While several pharmaceutical compounds are in varying stages of 
development, it cannot be predicted when or if products will 
become available for commercial sale.

Government Regulation

Most products manufactured or sold by the Company are subject to 
varying degrees of governmental regulation in the countries in 
which operations are conducted.  In the United States, the drug 
industry has long been subject to regulation by various federal, 
state and local agencies, primarily as to product safety, 
efficacy, advertising and labeling.  Compliance with the broad 
regulatory powers of the Food and Drug Administration requires 
significant amounts of Company time, testing and documentation, 
and corresponding costs to obtain clearance of new drugs.  
Similar product regulations also apply in many international 
markets.

In most international markets, the Company operates in an 
environment of government-mandated cost-containment programs.  
Several governments have placed restrictions on physician 
prescription levels and patient reimbursements, emphasized 
greater use of generic drugs and enacted across-the-board price 
cuts as methods of cost control.  

Since the Company is unable to predict the final form and timing 
of any future domestic and international governmental or other 
health care initiatives, their effect on operations and cash 
flows cannot be reasonably estimated.

The Company has and will continue to comply with the government 
regulations of the countries in which operations are conducted.

Environment

To date, compliance with federal, state and local environmental  
protection laws has not had a materially adverse effect on the 
Company.  The Company has made and will continue to make 
necessary expenditures for environmental protection.  Worldwide 
capital expenditures during 1997 included approximately $7 
million for environmental control purposes.  It is anticipated 
that continued compliance with such environmental regulations 
will not significantly affect the Company's financial statements 
or its competitive position.  For additional information on 
environmental matters, see "Legal and Environmental Matters" in 
the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in the 
Company's 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders which is 
incorporated herein by reference.

Employees

There were approximately 22,700 people employed by the Company at 
December 31, 1997.

Item 2.  Properties

The Company's corporate headquarters is located in Madison, New 
Jersey.  Principal manufacturing facilities are located in 
Kenilworth, New Jersey, Miami, Florida, Omaha, Nebraska, the 
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Argentina, Australia, Belgium, 
Canada, Colombia, France, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Mexico, 
Singapore and Spain (pharmaceutical products); and Cleveland, 
Tennessee (health care products).

The Company's principal research facilities are located in 
Kenilworth and Union, New Jersey and Palo Alto, California (DNAX) 
and San Diego, California (Canji and Syntro) and Elkhorn, 
Nebraska.

The major portion of properties are owned by the Company.  These 
properties are well maintained, adequately insured and in good 
operating condition. The Company's manufacturing facilities have 
capacities considered appropriate to meet the Company's needs.

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

Subsidiaries of the Company are defendants in 185 lawsuits 
involving approximately 730 plaintiffs arising out of the use of 
synthetic estrogens by the mothers of the plaintiffs.  In 
virtually all of these lawsuits, one being an alleged class 
action, many other pharmaceutical companies are also named 
defendants.  The female plaintiffs claim various injuries, 
including cancerous or precancerous lesions of the vagina and 
cervix and a multiplicity of pregnancy problems.  A number of 
suits involve infants with birth defects born to daughters whose 
mother took the drug.  The total amount claimed against all 
defendants in all the suits amounts to more than $2 billion.  
While it is not possible to precisely predict the outcome of 
these proceedings, it is management's opinion that it is remote 
that any material liability in excess of the amount accrued will 
be incurred.

The Company is a party to, or otherwise involved in, 
environmental clean-ups or proceedings under the Comprehensive 
Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, commonly 
known as Superfund, or under equivalent state laws.  These 
proceedings seek to require the owners or operators of facilities 
that treated, stored or disposed of hazardous substances and 
transporters and generators of such substances to clean-up 
contaminated facilities or reimburse the government or private 
parties for their clean-up costs.  The Company is alleged to be a 
potentially responsible party ("PRP") as an alleged generator of 
hazardous substances found at certain facilities.  In each 
proceeding, the government or private litigants allege that any 
one PRP, including the Company, is jointly and severally liable 
for clean-up costs.  Although joint and several liability is 
alleged, a company's share of clean-up costs is frequently 
determined on the basis of the type and quantity of hazardous 
substances sent to a facility by the generator.  However, this 
allocation process varies greatly from facility to facility and 
can take years to complete.  The Company's potential share of 
clean-up costs also depends on how many other PRP's are involved 
in the proceedings, insurance coverage, available indemnity 
contracts and contribution rights against other PRP's or parties. 
While it is not possible to precisely predict the outcome of 
these proceedings, it is management's opinion that it is remote 
that any material liability in excess of amounts accrued will be 
incurred.

The Company is a defendant in more than 160 antitrust actions 
commenced (starting in 1993) in state and federal courts by 
independent retail pharmacies, chain retail pharmacies and 
consumers.  The plaintiffs allege price discrimination and/or 
conspiracy between the Company and other defendants to restrain 
trade by jointly refusing to sell prescription drugs at 
discounted prices to the plaintiffs.

One of the federal cases is a class action on behalf of 
approximately two-thirds of all retail pharmacies in the United 
States and alleges a price-fixing conspiracy.  The Company has 
agreed to settle the federal class action for a total of $22.1 
million payable over three years.  The settlement provides, among 
other things, that the Company shall not refuse to grant 
discounts on brand-name prescription drugs to a retailer based 
solely on its status as a retailer and that, to the extent a 
retailer can demonstrate its ability to affect market share of a 
Company brand-name prescription drug in the same manner as a 
managed care organization with which the retailer competes, it 
will be entitled to negotiate similar incentives subject to the 
rights, obligations, exemptions and defenses of the Robinson-
Patman Act and other laws and regulations.  The United States 
District Court in Illinois approved the settlement of the federal 
class action on June 21, 1996.  In June 1997, the Seventh Circuit 
Court of Appeals dismissed all appeals from that settlement, and 
it is not subject to further review.  In addition, in August, 
1997, the Seventh Circuit ruled that there was sufficient 
evidence of participation in the alleged conspiracy by certain 
wholesalers to require them to proceed to trial.

Four of the state antitrust cases have been certified as class 
actions.  Two are class actions on behalf of certain retail 
pharmacies in California and Wisconsin, and the other two are 
class actions in California and the District of Columbia, on 
behalf of consumers of prescription medicine. In addition, an 
action has been brought in Alabama purportedly on behalf of 
consumers in Alabama and several other states.  Plaintiffs are 
seeking to maintain the action as a class action.  The Company 
has settled the retailer class action in Wisconsin and the 
alleged class action in Minnesota, subject to Court approval; the 
settlement amounts were not significant.  Plaintiffs generally 
seek treble damages in an unspecified amount and an injunction 
against the allegedly unlawful conduct.

Another of the actions, which was commenced in June 1994 by a 
group of nine chain food stores, including The Great Atlantic and 
Pacific Tea Company, Inc. ("A&P"), against three mail order 
pharmacies and 16 drug manufacturers, is pending in the United 
States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois.  Mr. 
James Wood, a director of the Company, is an executive officer of 
A&P.  Mr. Wood does not participate in any review or 
deliberations by the Board of Directors relating to this action. 
Plaintiffs in all cases seek treble damages and/or penalties in 
an unspecified amount and an injunction against the allegedly 
unlawful conduct.  The Company believes that all the antitrust 
actions are without merit and is defending itself vigorously 
against all such claims.
In April 1997, certain of the plaintiffs in the federal class 
action commenced another purported class action in United States 
District Court in Illinois against the Company and the other 
defendants who settled the previous federal class action.  The 
complaint alleges that the defendants conspired not to implement 
the settlement commitments following the settlement discussed 
above.  The District Court has denied the plaintiff's motion for 
a preliminary injunction hearing.  The Company believes the 
action is without merit and is defending itself vigorously.

On March 13, 1996, the Company was notified that the United 
States Federal Trade Commission (FTC) is investigating whether 
the Company, along with other pharmaceutical companies, conspired 
to fix prescription drug prices.  The investigation is ongoing. 
The Company vigorously denies that it has engaged in any price-
fixing conspiracy.

The Company is a defendant in a state court action in Texas 
brought by Foxmeyer Health Corporation, the parent of a 
pharmaceutical wholesaler that filed for bankruptcy in August 
1996.  The case is against another pharmaceutical wholesaler and 
11 pharmaceutical companies and alleges that the defendants 
conspired to drive the plaintiff's wholesaler subsidiary out of 
business.  Plaintiff is seeking damages in the amount of $400 
million.  The Company believes that this action is without merit 
and is defending itself vigorously against all claims.

In February 1998, Geneva Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Geneva) submitted 
an Abbreviated New Drug Application (ANDA) to the U.S. Food and 
Drug Administration seeking to market a generic form of Claritin 
in the United States several years before the expiration of the 
Company's patents.  Geneva has alleged that certain of the 
Company's U.S. Claritin patents are invalid and unenforceable.  
The Claritin patents are material to the Company's business. In 
March 1998, the Company filed suit in federal court seeking a 
ruling that Geneva's ANDA submission constitutes willful 
infringement of the Company's patents and that its challenge to 
the Company's patents is without merit.  The Company believes 
that it should prevail in the suit. However, as with any 
litigation, there can be no assurance that the Company will 
prevail.

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

Not applicable.



Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following information regarding executive officers is included 
herein in accordance with Part III, Item 10.

Officers are elected to serve for one year and until their successors 
shall have been duly elected.

Name and Current Position          Business Experience                Age

Robert P. Luciano                  Present position 1996; Chairman    64
  Chairman of the Board            and Chief Executive Officer
                                   1986-1995
                         
Richard Jay Kogan                  Present position 1996;             56
  President and                    President and Chief             
  Chief Executive Officer          Operating Officer 1986-1995

Hugh A. D'Andrade                  Present position 1996;             59
  Vice Chairman and                Executive Vice President
  Chief Administrative Officer     Administration 1984-1995

Rodolfo C. Bryce                   Present position 1997; President   51
  Executive Vice President         Schering-Plough HealthCare
  and President Schering-Plough    Products 1996; President
  HealthCare Products              Schering-Plough International
                                   1993-1996

Raul E. Cesan                      Present position 1994;             50
  Executive Vice President         President Schering
  and President                    Laboratories 1992-1994
	Schering-Plough
	Pharmaceuticals
             
Joseph C. Connors                  Present position 1996;             49
  Executive Vice President         Senior Vice President and
  and General Counsel              General Counsel 1992-1995

   
Jack L. Wyszomierski               Present position 1996;             42 
  Executive Vice President         Vice President and Treasurer
  and Chief Financial Officer      1991-1995 



                                







Name and Current Position          Business Experience               Age

Geraldine U. Foster                Present position 1994;             55
  Senior Vice President            Vice President - Investor 
  Investor Relations and           Relations 1988-1994          
  Corporate Communications

Daniel A. Nichols                  Present position 1991              57
  Senior Vice President
  Taxes

Gordon C. O'Brien                  Present position 1988              57
  Senior Vice President                                             
  Human Resources
                                                                          
Thomas H. Kelly                    Present position 1991              48
  Vice President and               
  Controller

Robert S. Lyons                    Present position 1991              57
  Vice President                                             
  Corporate Information                                           
  Services        

E. Kevin Moore                     Present position 1996;             45
  Vice President and               Staff Vice President and
  Treasurer                        Assistant Treasurer 1993-1995;
                                   Treasurer-Europe, The Dun and
                                   Bradstreet Corporation 1990-1993
                                                                
John E. Nine                       Present position 1996;             61
  Vice President                   President - Technical Operations
  and President, Schering          Schering Laboratories 1990-1995
  Technical Operations             

William J. Silbey                  Present position 1996;             38
  Staff Vice President,            Corporate Counsel 1993-1995;
  Secretary and Associate          Partner - Stearns, Weaver, Miller,
  General Counsel                  Weissler, Alhadeff & Sitterson,
                                   P.A. 1992-1993




                               Part II

Item 5.  Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related
         Stockholder Matters

The common share dividends and share price data as set forth in the 
Company's 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders are incorporated herein 
by reference.

Item 6.  Selected Financial Data

The Six-Year Selected Financial & Statistical Data as set forth in 
the Company's 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders is incorporated 
herein by reference.

Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
         Condition and Results of Operations

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Operations and Financial 
Condition as set forth in the Company's 1997 Annual Report to 
Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 7(a). Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market               
Risk

The Market Risk Disclosures as set forth in Management's Discussion 
and Analysis of Operations and Financial Condition in the Company's 
1997 Annual Report to Shareholders is incorporated herein by 
reference.

Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

The Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1997 and 1996, 
and the related Statements of Consolidated Income, Consolidated 
Retained Earnings and Consolidated Cash Flows for each of the three 
years in the period ended December 31, 1997, Notes to Consolidated 
Financial Statements, the Independent Auditors' Report of Deloitte & 
Touche LLP dated February 12, 1998 and Quarterly Data, as set forth 
in the Company's 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders, are 
incorporated  herein by reference.

Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
         Accounting and Financial Disclosure

Not applicable.
                               Part III

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

The information concerning directors and nominees for directors as 
set forth in the Company's Proxy Statement for the annual meeting of 
shareholders on April 28, 1998 is incorporated herein by reference.

Information required as to executive officers is included in Part I 
of this filing under the caption "Executive Officers of the 
Registrant."

Item 11. Executive Compensation

Executive compensation information as set forth in the Company's 
Proxy Statement for the annual meeting of shareholders on April 28, 
1998 is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
         Management

Information concerning security ownership of certain beneficial 
owners and management as set forth in the Company's Proxy Statement 
for the annual meeting of shareholders on April 28, 1998 is 
incorporated herein by reference.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

Information concerning certain relationships and related 
transactions as set forth in the Company's Proxy Statement for the 
annual meeting of shareholders on April 28, 1998 is incorporated 
herein by reference.

                               Part IV

Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on
         Form 8-K

  (a) 1. Financial Statements

         The following consolidated financial statements and
         independent auditors' report, included in the Company's
         1997 Annual Report to Shareholders, are incorporated
         herein by reference.

         Statements of Consolidated Income for the
            Years Ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995 

         Statements of Consolidated Retained Earnings for 
            the Years Ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995

         Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows for the Years 
            Ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995

         Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 1997 and

         Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
                                                                 
         Independent Auditors' Report 


  (a) 2. Financial Statement Schedules

                                                       Page in
                                                       Form 10-K

  Independent Auditors' Report . . . . . . . . . . . .     19
         
  Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts. . .     20


Schedules not included have been omitted because they are not       
applicable or not required or because the required information      
is set forth in the financial statements or the notes thereto.      
Columns omitted from schedules filed have been omitted because      
the information is not applicable.

Financial statements of fifty percent or less owned companies    
accounted for by the equity method have been omitted because,    
considered individually or in the aggregate, they do not         
constitute a significant subsidiary.

  (a)  3.  Exhibits

Exhibit
Number                        Description

3(a)         A complete copy of the Certificate of Incorporation
             as amended and currently in effect.  Incorporated by
             reference to Exhibit 3 (i) to the Company's Quarterly              
             Report for the period ended June 30, 1995 on Form 10-              
             Q; Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of                      
             Incorporation incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3               
             to the Company's Quarterly Report for the period ended
              
             June 30, 1997 on Form 10-Q, File No. 1-6571.

3(b)         A complete copy of the By-Laws as amended and
             currently in effect.  Incorporated by reference to
             Exhibit 4(2) to the Company's Registration Statement               
             on Form S-3, File No. 333-853.

4(a)         Rights Agreement between the Company and The Bank of
             New York dated June 24, 1997.  Incorporated by
             reference to Exhibit 1 to the Form 8-A filed by the                
             Company on June 30, 1997, File No. 1-6571.

4(b)         Indenture dated as of November 1, 1982 between the
             Company and The Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A. as                      
             Trustee. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(a)                 
             to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-3,               
             File No. 2-80012.




Exhibit
 Number                        Description


4(c)         Form of Participation Rights Agreement between the
             Company and The Chase Manhattan Bank (National 
             Association), as Trustee.  Incorporated by reference
             to Exhibit 4.6 to the Company's Registration
             Statement on Form S-4, Amendment No. 1, File 
             No. 33-65107.

10(a)        The Company's Executive Incentive Plan (as amended)
             and Trust related thereto*.  Plan incorporated by
             reference to Exhibit 10 to the Company's Quarterly
             Report for the period ended March 31, 1994 on 
             Form 10-Q;  Trust Agreement incorporated by                        
             reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Company's Annual                 
             Report for 1988 on Form 10-K; amendment to Trust                   
             Agreement incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b)  
                
             to the Company's Quarterly Report for the period ended 
             
             March 31, 1997 on Form 10-Q, File No. 1-6571.

10(b)        The Company's 1987 Stock Incentive Plan (as 
             amended)*.  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit                   
             10(d) to the Company's Annual Report for 1990 on                   
             Form 10-K, File No. 1-6571.

10(c)        The Company's 1992 Stock Incentive Plan (as 
             amended)*. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
             10(d) to the Company's Annual Report for 1992 on
             Form 10-K, File No. 1-6571; amendment of December 11,
             1995 incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(d)                    
             to the Company's Annual Report for 1995 on Form 10-K, 
             File No. 1-6571.

10(d)        The Company's 1997 Stock Incentive Plan.*                   
             Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10 to the                  
             Company's Quarterly Report for the period ended                    
             September 30, 1997 on Form 10-Q, File No. 1-6571. 

10(e)(i)     Employment agreement between the Company and Robert
             P. Luciano (as amended)*.  Incorporated by reference 
             to Exhibit 10(e)(i) to the Company's Annual Report          
      		     for 1989 on Form 10-K; first amendment incorporated 
                
           		by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Company's     
                 
           		Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1994
             on Form 10-Q; second amendment incorporated by        
             reference to Exhibit 10(e)(i) to the Company's Annual  
             
             Report for 1994 on Form 10-K, File No. 1-6571.





Exhibit
Number                        Description


10(e)(ii)    Employment agreement between the Company and Richard
             J. Kogan (as amended)*. Incorporated by reference to    
             Exhibit 10(e)(ii) to the Company's Annual Report      
                    
             for 1989 on Form 10-K; first amendment incorporated     
                  
             by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the Company's         
                   
             Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1994 
                      
             on Form 10-Q; second amendment incorporated by      
                      
             reference to Exhibit 10(e)(ii) to the Company's              
             Annual Report for 1994 on Form 10-K; third amendment      
             incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the
             Company's Quarterly Report for the period ended
             September 30, 1995 on Form 10-Q, File No. 1-6571.

10(e)(iii)   Employment agreement between the Company and Hugh A.
             D'Andrade (as amended)*.  Incorporated by
             reference to Exhibit 10(c) to the Company's            
             Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1994   
                    
             on Form 10-Q;  first amendment incorporated by      
                      
             reference to Exhibit 10(e)(iii) to the Company's    
                      
             Annual Report for 1994 on Form 10-K, File No. 1-
             6571; second amendment incorporated by reference to 
             Exhibit 10(e)(iii) to the Company's Annual Report for 
             1995 on Form 10-K, File No. 1-6571.

10(e)(iv)    Form of employment agreement between the Company and
             its executive officers effective upon a change of
             control*.  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit          
             10(e)(iv) to the Company's Annual Report for 1994 on   
                   
             Form 10-K, File No. 1-6571.

10(f)        Directors Deferred Compensation Plan and Trust 
             related thereto*.  Plan incorporated by reference to
             Exhibit 10(f) to the Company's Annual Report for        
             1991 on Form 10-K; Trust Agreement incorporated by
             reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Company's Annual
             Report for 1988 on Form 10-K, File No. 1-6571.

10(g)        Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan and Trust         
             related thereto*. Plan incorporated by reference to    
             
             Exhibit 10(h) to the Company's Annual Report for 1987  
             
             on Form 10-K; amendments to Plan incorporated by       
             
             reference to Exhibit 10(h) to the Company's Annual    
              
             Report for 1994 on Form 10-K;  Amended and Restated  
               
             Trust Agreement incorporated by reference to Exhibit             
             10(a) to the Company's Quarterly Report for the period 
             
             ended March 31, 1997 on Form 10-Q, File No. 1-6571.




Exhibit
Number                        Description


10(h)      Directors' Stock Award Plan*.  Incorporated by reference            
           to Exhibit 10 to the Company's Quarterly Report for the             
           period ended September 30, 1994 on Form 10-Q, File No. 
           1-6571; amendment of January 1, 1997 incorporated by                
           reference to Exhibit 10(i) to the Company's Annual Report            
           for 1996 on Form 10-K, File No. 1-6571.

10(i)      The Company's Deferred Compensation Plan*.  Plan          
           incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the         
           Company's Quarterly Report for the period ended           
           September 30, 1995 on Form 10-Q, File No. 1-6571.

10(k)      The Company's Directors Deferred Stock Equivalency        
           Program*.  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(k) to  
           the Company's Annual Report for 1996 on Form 10-K, File   
           No. 1-6571.

10(l)  **  Form of Split Dollar Agreement and related Collateral     
           Assignment between the Company and its executive          
           officers.*

12     **  Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges. 

13     **  The Financial Section of the Company's 1997 Annual Report  
           to Shareholders.  With the exception of those portions of
           said Annual Report which are specifically incorporated by  
           reference in this Form 10-K, such report shall not be     
           deemed filed as part of this Form 10-K.

21     **  Subsidiaries of the registrant. 

23     **  Consents of experts and counsel. 

24     **  Power of attorney.

27     **  Financial Data Schedule. 

99     **  Cautionary Statements regarding "Safe Harbor" provision   
           of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.



All other exhibits are not applicable.  Copies of above exhibits 
will be furnished upon request.

*  Compensatory plan, contract or arrangement.
** Filed with this document.
(b) Reports on Form 8-K.



None



                              SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be 
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized
                                             Schering-Plough Corporation
                                                    (Registrant)

Date  March 19, 1998                    By       /s/Thomas H. Kelly     
                                                    Thomas H. Kelly
                                           Vice President and Controller

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 
this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of 
the registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.

 By               *                  By               *              
           Robert P. Luciano                  Donald L. Miller
         Chairman and Director                    Director

 By               *                  By               *              
           Richard Jay Kogan                 H. Barclay Morley
    President and Chief Executive                 Director
         Officer and Director

 By               *                  By               *              
         Jack L. Wyszomierski                 Carl E. Mundy, Jr.
    Executive Vice President and                  Director
       Chief Financial Officer

 By               *                  By               *              
            Thomas H. Kelly                 Richard de J. Osborne
   Vice President and Controller                  Director
  and Principal Accounting Officer

 By               *                  By               *              
           Hans W. Becherer                  Patricia F. Russo
              Director                            Director

 By               *                  By               *              
           Hugh A. D'Andrade                 William A. Schreyer
              Director                            Director

 By               *                 By               *            
           David C. Garfield                Robert F. W. van Oordt 
               Director                            Director

 By               *                 By               *          
           Regina E. Herzlinger                   James Wood   
                        
               Director                            Director
                               
*By  /s/ Thomas H. Kelly            Date March 19, 1998         
                  
         Thomas H. Kelly
         Attorney-in-fact




                    INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

Schering-Plough Corporation:

We have audited the consolidated balance sheets of Schering-
Plough Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1997 
and 1996 and the related statements of consolidated income, 
retained earnings and cash flows for each of the three years 
in the period ended December 31, 1997, and have issued our 
report thereon dated February 12, 1998; such financial 
statements and report are included in your 1997 Annual 
Report to Shareholders and are incorporated herein by 
reference.  Our audits also included the financial statement 
schedule of Schering-Plough Corporation and subsidiaries, 
listed in Item 14.  This financial statement schedule is the 
responsibility of the Company's management.  Our 
responsibility is to express our opinion based on our 
audits.  In our opinion, such financial statement schedule, 
when considered in relation to the basic financial 
statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material 
respects the information set forth therein.



/s/DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

Parsippany, New Jersey
February 12, 1998


                                                      	SCHEDULE II
            

                                                      




