Item 1: Business

Snap-on was incorporated under the laws of the state of Wisconsin in 1920 and reincorporated under the laws of the state of Delaware in
1930. Snap-on is a leading global innovator, manufacturer and marketer of tools, equipment, diagnostics, repair information and systems solutions for professional users performing critical tasks. Products and services include hand and power tools,
tool storage, diagnostics software, information and management systems, shop equipment and other solutions for vehicle dealerships and repair centers, as well as customers in industry, government, agriculture, aviation and natural resources. Snap-on
also derives income from various financing programs to facilitate the sales of its products.

Snap-on markets its products and
brands through multiple distribution sales channels in approximately 130 countries. Snap-on’s largest geographic markets include the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada, Germany, Australia, France, Japan, Spain, Italy, Sweden, the
Netherlands, Argentina, China and Brazil. Snap-on also reaches its customers through the company’s franchisee, company-direct, distributor and internet channels. Snap-on originated the mobile van tool distribution channel in the automotive
repair market.

In 2010, Snap-on celebrated a significant milestone – the 90th anniversary of its founding. Beginning
with the development of the original Snap-on interchangeable socket set in 1920, Snap-on pioneered mobile van tool distribution, where fully stocked vans sell to professional vehicle technicians at their place of business. For many decades, the
company was viewed primarily as a tool company selling through vans to vehicle technicians. In recent years, Snap-on has defined its value proposition more broadly, reaching outside the garage. Today, Snap-on delivers a broad array of unique
solutions to make work easier for serious professionals performing critical tasks – both within and beyond vehicle repair.

As previously disclosed, Snap-on realigned its management organization and, as a result, its reportable business segments in the second
quarter of 2010. This organizational change reflects the company’s efforts to better support the product and service needs of the company’s primary customer segments. These customer segments include: (i) commercial and industrial
customers, including professionals in critical industries and emerging markets; (ii) professional technicians who purchase products through the company’s worldwide mobile tool distribution network; and (iii) other professional
customers related to vehicle repair, including owners and managers of independent and original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) dealership service and repair shops. In addition, Snap-on’s Financial Services customer segment offers
financing options that include (i) loans to franchisees’ customers and Snap-on’s industrial and other customers for the purchase or lease of tools, equipment and diagnostics products on an extended term payment plan; and
(ii) business loans and vehicle leases to franchisees.

Snap-on’s business segments are based on the organization
structure used by management for making operating and investment decisions and for assessing performance. Snap-on’s reportable business segments are: (i) the Commercial & Industrial Group; (ii) the Snap-on Tools Group;
(iii) the Repair Systems & Information Group; and (iv) Financial Services. The Commercial & Industrial Group consists of business operations serving a broad range of industrial and commercial customers worldwide,
primarily through direct and distributor channels. The Snap-on Tools Group consists of business operations primarily serving automotive service technicians through the company’s worldwide mobile tool distribution channel. The Repair
Systems & Information Group consists of business operations serving other professional vehicle repair customers, primarily owners and managers of independent repair shops and OEM dealership service and repair shops, through direct and
distributor channels. Financial Services consists of the business operations of Snap-on Credit LLC (“SOC”), the company’s financial services business in the United States, and Snap-on’s other wholly-owned finance subsidiaries in
those international markets where Snap-on has franchise operations. See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on business segments and foreign operations.

Snap-on evaluates the performance of its operating segments based on segment revenues, including both external and intersegment net
sales, and segment operating earnings. Snap-on accounts for intersegment sales and transfers based primarily on standard costs with reasonable mark-ups established between the segments. Identifiable assets by segment are those assets used in the
respective reportable segment’s operations. Corporate assets consist of cash and cash equivalents (excluding cash held at Financial Services), deferred income taxes, pension assets and certain other assets. All significant intersegment amounts
are eliminated to arrive at Snap-on’s consolidated financial results.







4SNAP-ON INCORPORATED










Snap-on acquired the remaining 40% interest in Wanda Snap-on (Zhejiang) Co., Ltd.
(“Wanda Snap-on”), the company’s tool manufacturing operation in Xiaoshan, China, on April 6, 2010, for a cash purchase price of $7.7 million and $0.1 million of transaction costs. Snap-on acquired the initial 60% interest in
Wanda Snap-on for a cash purchase price of $15.4 million (or $14.1 million, net of cash acquired), including $1.2 million of transaction costs, on March 5, 2008. On July 1, 2010, Wanda Snap-on was renamed Snap-on Asia Manufacturing
(Zhejiang) Co., Ltd. (“Xiaoshan”). For segment reporting purposes, the results of operations and assets of Xiaoshan, which have been included in Snap-on’s consolidated financial statements since the March 5, 2008 acquisition
date, are included in the Commercial & Industrial Group. The Xiaoshan acquisition is part of the company’s ongoing strategic initiatives to further expand its manufacturing presence in emerging growth markets and lower-cost regions.
Pro forma financial information is not presented as the net effects of the Xiaoshan acquisition were not material to Snap-on’s results of operations or financial position.

Snap-on terminated its financial services operating agreement with CIT Group Inc. (“CIT”) relating to the parties’ SOC
financial services joint venture on July 16, 2009, and subsequently purchased, pursuant to the terms of the joint venture agreement, CIT’s 50%-ownership interest in SOC for a cash purchase price of $8.1 million. Since July 16, 2009,
Snap-on has been providing financing for the majority of new loans originated by SOC and SOC is recording the interest yield on the new on-book finance portfolio over the life of the contracts as financial services revenue. Following the inception
of the financial services operating agreement in 1999, and until July 16, 2009, CIT had been the exclusive purchaser of loans originated by SOC in the United States. Prior to July 16, 2009, SOC sold substantially all new contract
originations to CIT and recorded gains on the sale of the contracts as financial services revenue. Since 2004, Snap-on has included the accounts of SOC in its Consolidated Financial Statements, as Snap-on concluded that it was the primary
beneficiary of the joint venture arrangement. From 2004 until the July 16, 2009 termination date, CIT’s ownership interest in SOC was reported in the company’s Consolidated Financial Statements as a noncontrolling interest. See Notes
1, 2 and 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on SOC.

Information Available on the Company’s Web Site

www.snapon.com

www.snapon.com

www.sec.gov

www.snapon.com

Products and Services

Tools, Diagnostics and Repair Information, and Equipment

Snap-on offers a broad line of products and complementary services that are grouped into three product categories:
(i) tools; (ii) diagnostics and repair information; and (iii) equipment. Further product line information is not presented as it is not practicable to do so. The following table shows the consolidated net sales of these product
categories for the last three years:



Net Sales(Amounts in millions)201020092008Product Category:Tools$1,545.1$1,311.3$1,694.9Diagnostics and repair information563.3556.5589.8Equipment510.8494.7568.6$2,619.2$2,362.5$2,853.3







2010 ANNUAL REPORT5










Thetoolsproduct category includes hand tools, power tools and tool storage
products. Hand tools include wrenches, screwdrivers, sockets, pliers, ratchets, saws and cutting tools, pruning tools, torque measuring instruments and other similar products. Power tools include pneumatic (air), hydraulic, cordless (battery) and
corded (electric) tools such as impact wrenches, ratchets, chisels, drills, sanders, polishers and similar products. Tool storage includes tool chests, roll cabinets, tool control systems and other similar products. The majority of products are
manufactured by Snap-on and, in completing the product offering, other items are purchased from external manufacturers.

Thediagnostics and repair informationproduct category includes handheld and PC-based diagnostics products, service and repair information products, diagnostic software solutions, electronic parts catalogs, business management systems, business
services, point-of-sale systems, integrated systems for vehicle service shops, OEM purchasing facilitation services, and warranty management systems and analytics to help OEM dealership service and repair shops manage and track performance.

Theequipmentproduct category includes solutions for the diagnosis and service of automotive and industrial
equipment. Products include wheel alignment equipment, wheel balancers, tire changers, vehicle lifts, test lane systems, collision repair equipment, air conditioning service equipment, brake service equipment, fluid exchange equipment, transmission
troubleshooting equipment, safety testing equipment, battery chargers and hoists.

Snap-on supports the sale of its
diagnostics and vehicle service shop equipment by offering training programs as well as after sales support for its customers, primarily focusing on the technologies and the application of specific products developed and marketed by Snap-on.

Products are marketed under a number of brand names and trademarks, many of which are well known in the vehicle service and
industrial markets served. Some of the major trade names and trademarks and the products and services with which they are associated include the following:





NamesProducts and Services



Snap-onHand tools, power tools, tool storage products, diagnostics, certain equipment and related accessories, mobile tool stores, web sites, electronic parts catalogs, warranty analytics
solutions, business management services, OEM specialty tools and equipment development and distribution, and OEM facilitation services



ATIAircraft hand tools and machine tools



BAHCOSaw blades, cutting tools, pruning tools, hand tools, power tools, tool storage and diagnostics



BlackhawkCollision repair equipment



Blue-PointHand tools, power tools, tool storage units, diagnostics, certain equipment and related accessories



CartecSafety testing, brake testers, test lane equipment, dynamo-meters, suspension testers, emission testers and other equipment



CDITorque tools



Fish and HookHand tools and machine tools



HofmannWheel balancers, lifts, tire changers, wheel aligners, brake testers and test lane equipment



IrimoSaw blades, cutting tools, hand tools, power tools and tool storage



John BeanWheel balancers, lifts, tire changers, wheel aligners, brake testers and test lane equipment



LindströmHand tools



Mitchell1Service information, shop management systems and business services



NexiqDiagnostic tools, information and program distributions for fleet and heavy duty equipment



PalmeraSaw blades, cutting tools, hand tools, power tools and tool storage



SandflexHacksaw blades, band saws, saw blades, hole saws and reciprocating saw blades



ShopKeyRepair and service information, shop management systems and business services



SiouxPower tools



SunDiagnostic and service equipment



WilliamsHand tools









6SNAP-ON INCORPORATED










Financial Services

Snap-on also generates revenue from various financing activities that include (i) loans to franchisees’ customers and the
company’s industrial and other customers for the purchase or lease of tools, equipment and diagnostics products on an extended term payment plan; and (ii) business loans and vehicle leases to franchisees. The decision to finance through
Snap-on or another financing entity is solely at the customer’s election. When assessing customers for potential financing, Snap-on considers various factors regarding ability to pay including financial condition, collateral, debt-servicing
ability, past payment experience and credit bureau information.

United States

In the United States, Snap-on offers financing through SOC. Since the July 16, 2009 termination of the financial services operating
agreement with CIT, Snap-on has been providing financing for the majority of new contracts originated by SOC. The financing revenue from contracts originated after July 16, 2009, which are owned and serviced by SOC, is recognized by SOC over
the life of the contracts, with interest computed on the average daily balances of the underlying contracts.

From 1999 until
July 16, 2009, CIT had been the exclusive purchaser of the financing contracts originated by SOC in the United States. Snap-on recorded gains on the sale of the originated contracts as financial services revenue at the time the contracts were
sold to CIT. For contracts sold to CIT prior to July 16, 2009, SOC continues to service the contracts for an estimated servicing fee and such revenue is recognized over the contractual term of the loans.

International

Snap-on
also offers financing to its franchisees and customer networks through its wholly-owned international finance subsidiaries located in Canada, the United Kingdom, Australia and Puerto Rico. Snap-on’s international finance subsidiaries own and
service the loans originated through their financing programs. Financing revenue from these contracts is recognized over the contractual term of the loans, with interest computed on the average daily balances of the underlying contracts.

Other

Franchise
fee revenue, including nominal, non-refundable initial and ongoing monthly fees (primarily for sales, business training, marketing and product promotion programs), is recognized as the fees are earned.

Sales and Distribution

Snap-on markets and distributes its products and related services principally to professional tool and equipment users around the world.
The two largest market sectors are the vehicle service and repair sector and the industrial sector.

Vehicle Service and Repair Sector

The vehicle service and repair sector has three main customer groups: (i) professional technicians who purchase
tools, equipment and diagnostics products for themselves; (ii) other professional customers related to automotive repair, including owners and managers of independent and OEM dealership service and repair shops who purchase tools, equipment and
diagnostics products for use by multiple technicians within a service or repair facility; and (iii) OEMs.

Snap-on
provides innovative tool, equipment and business solutions, as well as technical sales support and training, to meet technicians’ evolving needs. Snap-on’s franchise van distribution system offers technicians the convenience of purchasing
quality tools at their place of business with minimal disruption of their work routine. Snap-on also provides owners and managers of shops, where technicians work, with tools, diagnostics equipment, repair and service information, including
electronic parts catalogs and shop management products. Snap-on’s OEM facilitation business provides OEMs with products and services including tools, consulting and facilitation services, which include product procurement, distribution and
administrative support to customers for their dealership equipment programs.

Major challenges for Snap-on and the vehicle
service and repair sector include the increasing rate of technological change within motor vehicles, vehicle population growth, vehicle life and the resulting impact on the businesses of both our suppliers and customers that is necessitated by such
change. Snap-on believes it is a meaningful participant in the market sector for vehicle service and repair.







2010 ANNUAL REPORT7










Snap-on markets its products globally to a broad cross-section of commercial and
industrial customers including maintenance and repair operations; manufacturing and assembly facilities; various government agencies, facilities and operations, including military operations; vocational and technical schools; aerospace and aviation;
OEM and service and repair customers; oil and gas developers; mining operations; energy and power generation equipment fabricators and operators; agriculture; infrastructure construction companies; and other customers that require instrumentation,
service tools and/or equipment for their products.

The industrial sector for Snap-on has achieved growth in recent years by
providing value-added products and services to an increasingly expanding global base of customers in critical industries, particularly those in the market segments of natural resources, aerospace, government and education. Through its experienced
and dispersed sales organization, industrial “solutioneers” strive to develop unique and highly valued productivity solutions for customers worldwide that leverage Snap-on’s product, service and development capabilities.

Major challenges in the industrial sector include a highly competitive, cost-conscious environment, and a trend toward customers making
many of their tool and equipment purchases through one integrated supplier. Snap-on believes it is a meaningful participant in the market sector for industrial tools and equipment.

Distribution Channels

Snap-on serves customers primarily through the
following channels of distribution: (i) the mobile van channel; (ii) company direct sales; (iii) distributors; and (iv) e-commerce. The following discussion summarizes Snap-on’s general approach for each channel, and is not
intended to be all-inclusive.

Mobile Van Channel

In the United States, a significant portion of sales to the vehicle service and repair sector are conducted through Snap-on’s mobile franchise van channel. Snap-on’s franchisees primarily serve
vehicle service technicians and vehicle service shop owners, generally providing weekly contact at the customer’s place of business. Franchisees’ sales are concentrated in hand and power tools, tool storage products, small diagnostic and
shop equipment, and diagnostics and repair information products, which can easily be transported in a van and demonstrated during a brief sales call. Franchisees purchase Snap-on’s products at a discount from suggested list prices and resell
them at prices established by the franchisee. U.S. franchisees are provided a list of places of business that serves as the basis of the franchisee’s sales route.

Snap-on also offers an option termed the “Gateway Program” to potential U.S. franchisees that do not meet the franchise qualification requirements. Gateway Program
participants have less upfront investment and are provided an initial base level of consigned inventory from Snap-on to assist them in gaining experience and building equity toward the future purchase of a standard
franchise. Snap-on also provides certain franchisees the opportunity to add vans to their franchise or to add a limited number of additional franchises. Snap-on charges nominal initial and ongoing monthly franchise fees. Since 1991, written
franchise agreements have been entered into with all new U.S. franchisees and most pre-1991 independent franchisees. As of 2010 year end there were 3,159 vans operated by U.S. franchisees (approximately 96%) with written franchise agreements, or
individuals employed by such franchisees, as compared with 3,183 vans (approximately 96%) as of 2009 year end.

Snap-on has
replicated its U.S. franchise van distribution model in certain other countries including Australia, Canada, Germany, Japan, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, South Africa, New Zealand, Belgium and Ireland. In many of these markets, as in the
United States, purchase decisions are generally made or influenced by professional vehicle service technicians and shop owners and managers.

Through SOC, financing is available to U.S. franchisees, including financing for van and truck leases, working capital loans, and loans to enable new franchisees to fund the purchase of the franchise.
Internationally, Snap-on offers financing to its franchisees and customer networks through its wholly-owned international finance subsidiaries. The decision to finance through Snap-on or another financing entity is solely at the customer’s
election.

Snap-on supports its franchisees with a field organization of regional offices, franchise performance teams,
Diagnostic Sales Developers (“DSDs”), customer care centers and distribution centers. Snap-on also provides sales and business training, and marketing and product promotion programs, as well as customer and franchisee financing programs
through SOC and the company’s international finance subsidiaries, all of which are designed to strengthen franchisee sales. In the United States and Canada, the National Franchise Advisory Council and the Snap-on Tools Canadian Franchise
Advisory Council, respectively, both of which are composed primarily of franchisees that are elected by franchisees, assist Snap-on in identifying and implementing enhancements to the franchise program.







8SNAP-ON INCORPORATED










In the United States, franchisees work closely with the DSDs. The DSDs train franchisees
on the sale of higher-price-point diagnostics and demonstrate and sell vehicle service shop management and information systems. DSDs work independently and with franchisees to identify and generate sales among vehicle service technicians, shop
owners and managers. DSDs are Snap-on employees who are compensated through a combination of base salary and commission; a franchisee receives a brokerage fee from certain sales made by the DSDs to the franchisee’s customers. Most products sold
through franchisees and the DSDs are sold under the Snap-on, Blue-Point and Sun brand names.

Snap-on also has a company-owned
van program in the United States that is designed to (i) provide another pool of potential franchisees and field organization personnel; (ii) service customers in select new and/or open routes not currently serviced by franchisees; and
(iii) allow Snap-on to pilot new sales and promotional ideas prior to introducing them to franchisees. As of 2010 year end, company-owned vans comprised approximately 6% of the total U.S. van population; Snap-on may elect to increase
or reduce the number of company-owned vans in the future.

Company Direct Sales

A significant proportion of shop equipment sales in the United States under the John Bean and Blackhawk brands, diagnostic products under
the Snap-on brand and information products under the Mitchell1 brand are made by direct and independent sales forces that have responsibility for national and other accounts. As the vehicle service and repair sector consolidates (with more
business conducted by national chains and franchised service centers), Snap-on believes these larger organizations can be serviced most effectively by sales people who can demonstrate and sell the full line of equipment and diagnostic products and
services. Snap-on also sells these products and services directly to OEMs and their franchised dealers.

Snap-on brand
tools and equipment are marketed to industrial and governmental customers in the United States through both industrial sales representatives, who are employees, and independent industrial distributors. In most markets outside the United States,
industrial sales are conducted through independent distributors. The sales representatives focus on industrial customers whose main purchase criteria are quality and service. As of 2010 year end, Snap-on had industrial sales representatives in the
United States (including Puerto Rico), Australia, Canada, Japan, Mexico and some European, Asian, Latin American and Middle Eastern countries, with the United States representing the majority of Snap-on’s total industrial sales.

Snap-on also sells software, services and solutions to the automotive, power equipment and sports segments. Products and services are
marketed to targeted groups, including OEMs and their dealerships and individual repair shops. To effectively reach OEMs, such as General Motors Company, Daimler AG, Ford Motor Company, Chrysler Group LLC, Toyota Motor Corporation, John Deere
(Deere & Company), JC Bamford Excavators Ltd. (JCB), and Yamaha Corporation, Snap-on has deployed focused business teams globally.

Distributors

Sales of
certain tools and equipment are made through independent distributors who purchase the items from Snap-on and resell them to end users. Hand tools under the BAHCO, Fish and Hook, and Lindström brands and trade names, for example, are sold
through distributors in Europe, North and South America, Asia and certain other parts of the world. Wheel service and other vehicle service equipment are sold through distributors primarily under brands including Hofmann, John Bean, Cartec and
Blackhawk. Diagnostics and equipment are marketed through distributors in South America and Asia, and through both a direct sales force and distributors in Europe under the Snap-on, Sun and BAHCO brands.

E-commerce

Snap-on’s e-commerce development initiatives allow Snap-on to combine the capabilities of the internet with Snap-on’s existing
brand sales and distribution strengths to reach new and under-served customer segments. Snap-on offers current and prospective customers online, around-the-clock access to purchase products through its public internet web site atwww.snapon.com. The site features an online catalog containing nearly 15,000 products, including Snap-on hand tools, power tools, tool storage units and diagnostic equipment available to consumers and professionals in the United States, the
United Kingdom, Canada and Australia. As of 2010 year end, Snap-on had more than 640,000 registered users, including approximately 46,000 industrial accounts. E-commerce and certain other system enhancement initiatives are designed to improve
productivity and further leverage the one-on-one relationships and service Snap-on has with its current and prospective customers. Through business-to-business and business-to-consumer capabilities, Snap-on and its franchisees are enhancing
communications with customers on a real-time, 24 hour, 7 day a week basis.







2010 ANNUAL REPORT9










Competition

Snap-on competes on the basis of its product quality and performance, product line breadth and depth, service, brand awareness and imagery, and technological innovation. While no single company competes
with Snap-on across all of its product lines and distribution channels, various companies compete in one or more product categories and/or distribution channels.

Snap-on believes it is a leading manufacturer and distributor of professional tools, diagnostics, equipment, repair software and solutions, offering a broad line of these products to the vehicle service
industry. Various competitors target and sell to professional technicians in the automotive service and repair sector through the mobile van channel; Snap-on also competes with companies that sell tools and equipment to automotive technicians
through retail stores and online, auto parts supply outlets, and tool supply warehouses/distributorships. Within the power tools category and the industrial sectors, Snap-on has various other competitors, including companies with offerings that also
overlap with other areas discussed herein. Major competitors selling diagnostics and shop equipment and information to independent repair shop owners and managers as well as automotive dealerships in the vehicle service and repair sector include
both companies that specifically offer products serving this sector, as well as the proprietary electronic parts catalog, diagnostic and information systems of OEMs.

Raw Materials and Purchased Product

Snap-on’s supply of raw
materials and purchased components are generally and readily available from numerous suppliers. Snap-on believes it has secured an ample supply of both bar and coil steel for the near future to ensure stable supply to meet material demands. The
company does not currently anticipate experiencing any significant impact in 2011 from steel pricing or availability issues.

Patents,
Trademarks and Other Intellectual Property

Snap-on vigorously pursues and relies on patent protection to protect its
intellectual property and its position in its markets. As of 2010 year end, Snap-on and its subsidiaries held over 770 active and pending patents in the United States and over 1,615 active and pending patents outside of the United States. Sales
relating to any single patent did not represent a material portion of Snap-on’s revenues in the last three years.

Examples of products that have features or designs that benefit from patent protection include wheel alignment systems, wheel balancers,
tire changers, lifts, test lanes, sealed ratchets, electronic torque instruments, ratcheting screwdrivers, emissions-sensing devices and diagnostic equipment.

Much of the technology used in the manufacture of vehicle service tools and equipment is in the public domain. Snap-on relies primarily on trade secret protection to protect proprietary processes used in
manufacturing. Methods and processes are patented when appropriate. Copyright protection is also utilized when appropriate.

Trademarks used by Snap-on are of continuing importance to Snap-on in the marketplace. Trademarks have been registered in the United
States and more than 100 other countries, and additional applications for trademark registrations are pending. Snap-on vigorously polices proper use of its trademarks. Snap-on’s right to manufacture and sell certain products is dependent upon
licenses from others; however, these products under license do not represent a material portion of Snap-on’s net sales.

Domain names have become a valuable corporate asset for companies around the world, including Snap-on. Domain names often contain a
trademark or service mark or even a corporate name and are often considered intellectual property. The recognition and value of the Snap-on name, trademark and domain name are core strengths of the company.

Snap-on strategically licenses the Snap-on brand to carefully selected manufacturing and distribution companies for items such as
apparel, work boots, lighting and a variety of other goods, in order to further build equity and market presence for the company’s strongest brand.







10SNAP-ON INCORPORATED










Environmental

Snap-on is subject to various environmental laws, ordinances, regulations, and other requirements of government authorities in the United States and other nations. At Snap-on, these environmental
liabilities are managed through the Snap-on Environmental, Health and Safety Management System (“EH & SMS”), which is applied worldwide. The system is based upon continual improvement and is certified to ISO 14001:2004 and OHSAS
18001:2007, verified through Det Norske Veritas (DNV) Certification, Inc.

Snap-on believes that it complies with applicable
environmental control requirements in its operations. Expenditures on environmental matters through EH & SMS have not had, and Snap-on does not for the foreseeable future expect them to have, a material effect upon Snap-on’s capital
expenditures, earnings or competitive position.

Employees

At the end of January 2011, Snap-on employed approximately 11,300 people as compared to approximately 11,000 people at the end of January 2010.

Approximately 2,850 employees, or 25% of Snap-on’s worldwide workforce, are represented by unions and/or covered under collective
bargaining agreements. Approximately 1,450 employees are covered under agreements expiring in 2011. In recent years, Snap-on has not experienced any significant work slow-downs, stoppages or other labor disruptions.

The number of covered union employees whose contracts expire within the next five years approximates 1,450 employees in 2011; 550
employees in 2012; 400 employees in 2013; and 250 employees in 2014. There are no contracts currently scheduled to expire in 2015.

There can be no assurance that future contracts with Snap-on’s unions will be renegotiated upon terms acceptable to Snap-on.

Working Capital

Most of Snap-on’s businesses are not seasonal and
their inventory needs are relatively constant. Since the termination of the financial services operating agreement with CIT on July 16, 2009, Snap-on has been using its working capital to fund, in part, the growth of the on-book receivables
originated by SOC. Snap-on did not have a significant backlog of orders at 2010 year end.

Snap-on’s liquidity and
capital resources and use of working capital are discussed herein in “Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”

As of 2010 year end, neither Snap-on nor any of its segments depend on any single customer, small group of customers or government for
any material part of its revenues; prior to July 16, 2009, Snap-on’s Financial Services segment depended on CIT for more than 10% of its revenues.

