Item 1: Business

Snap-on was incorporated under the laws of the state of Wisconsin in 1920 and reincorporated under the laws of the state of Delaware in
1930. Snap-on is a leading global innovator, manufacturer and marketer of tools, equipment, diagnostics, repair information and systems solutions for professional users performing critical tasks. Products and services include hand and power tools,
tool storage, diagnostic software, information and management systems, shop equipment and other solutions for vehicle dealerships and repair centers, as well as for customers in industries, including aviation and aerospace, agriculture,
construction, government and military, mining, natural resources, power generation and technical education. Snap-on also derives income from various financing programs to facilitate the sales of its products.

Snap-on markets its products and brands through multiple distribution sales channels in more than 130 countries. Snap-on’s largest
geographic markets include the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada, Germany, Australia, Japan, France, Sweden, Spain, the Russian Federation, Brazil, China, Italy, the Netherlands, Argentina, Indonesia, Denmark, Norway, Mexico and India.
Snap-on reaches its customers through the company’s franchisee, company-direct, distributor and internet channels. Snap-on originated the mobile van tool distribution channel in the automotive repair market.

The company began with the development of the original Snap-on interchangeable socket set in 1920 and subsequently pioneered mobile van
tool distribution, where fully stocked vans sell to professional vehicle technicians at their place of business. For many decades, the company was viewed primarily as a hand tool company selling through vans to vehicle technicians. In recent years,
Snap-on has defined its value proposition more broadly, extending its reach “beyond the garage” to deliver a broad array of unique solutions that make work easier for serious professionals performing critical tasks. Building upon
capabilities already demonstrated in the automotive repair arena, the company’s “coherent growth” strategy focuses on developing and expanding its professional customer base in adjacent markets, additional geographies and other areas,
including in critical industries, where the cost and penalties for failure can be high. In addition to its coherent growth strategy, Snap-on is committed to its “Value Creation Processes” – a set of strategic principles and processes
designed to create value and employed in the areas of (i) safety; (ii) quality; (iii) customer connection; (iv) innovation; and (v) rapid continuous improvement (“RCI”).

Snap-on’s primary customer segments include: (i) commercial and industrial customers, including professionals in critical
industries and emerging markets; (ii) professional vehicle repair technicians who purchase products through the company’s worldwide mobile tool distribution network; and (iii) other professional customers related to vehicle repair,
including owners and managers of independent and original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) dealership service and repair shops. Snap-on’s Financial Services customer segment offers financing options that include (i) loans to
franchisees’ customers and Snap-on’s industrial and other customers for the purchase or lease of tools, equipment and diagnostic products on an extended term payment plan; and (ii) business loans and vehicle leases to franchisees.

Snap-on’s business segments are based on the organization structure used by management for making operating and
investment decisions and for assessing performance. Snap-on’s reportable business segments are: (i) the Commercial & Industrial Group; (ii) the Snap-on Tools Group; (iii) the Repair Systems & Information Group;
and (iv) Financial Services. The Commercial & Industrial Group consists of business operations serving a broad range of industrial and commercial customers worldwide, primarily through direct and distributor channels. The Snap-on Tools
Group consists of business operations primarily serving vehicle repair technicians through the company’s worldwide mobile tool distribution channel. The Repair Systems & Information Group consists of business operations serving other
professional vehicle repair customers worldwide, primarily owners and managers of independent repair shops and OEM dealership service and repair shops, through direct and distributor channels. Financial Services consists of the business operations
of Snap-on Credit LLC (“SOC”), the company’s financial services business in the United States, and Snap-on’s other financial services subsidiaries in those international markets where Snap-on has franchise operations. See Note 17
to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on business segments and foreign operations.

Snap-on evaluates the
performance of its operating segments based on segment revenues, including both external and intersegment net sales, and segment operating earnings. Snap-on accounts for intersegment sales and transfers based primarily on standard costs with
reasonable mark-ups established between the segments. Identifiable assets by segment are those assets used in the respective reportable segment’s operations. Corporate assets consist of cash and cash equivalents (excluding cash held at
Financial Services), deferred income taxes, pension assets and certain other assets. All significant intersegment amounts are eliminated to arrive at Snap-on’s consolidated financial results.







4SNAP-ON INCORPORATED










Information Available on the Company’s Web Site

www.snapon.com

www.snapon.com

www.sec.gov

www.snapon.com

Products and Services

Tools,
Diagnostics and Repair Information, and Equipment

Snap-on offers a broad line of products and complementary services
that are grouped into three product categories: (i) tools; (ii) diagnostics and repair information; and (iii) equipment. Further product line information is not presented as it is not practicable to do so. The following table shows
the consolidated net sales of these product categories for the last three years:



Net Sales(Amounts in millions)201220112010Product Category:Tools$1,729.4$1,667.3$1,545.1Diagnostics and repair information619.8613.7563.3Equipment588.7573.2510.8$2,937.9$2,854.2$2,619.2

Thetoolsproduct category includes hand tools, power tools and tool storage products. Hand tools
include wrenches, sockets, ratchet wrenches, pliers, screwdrivers, punches and chisels, saws and cutting tools, pruning tools, torque measuring instruments and other similar products. Power tools include cordless (battery), pneumatic (air),
hydraulic, and corded (electric) tools, such as impact wrenches, ratchets, chisels, drills, sanders, polishers and similar products. Tool storage includes tool chests, roll cabinets, tool control systems and other similar products. The majority of
products are manufactured by Snap-on and, in completing the product offering, other items are purchased from external manufacturers.

Thediagnostics and repair informationproduct category includes handheld and PC-based diagnostic products, service and repair information products, diagnostic software solutions, electronic parts
catalogs, business management systems and services, point-of-sale systems, integrated systems for vehicle service shops, OEM purchasing facilitation services, and warranty management systems and analytics to help OEM dealership service and repair
shops manage and track performance.

Theequipmentproduct category includes solutions for the diagnosis and service of
vehicles and industrial equipment. Products include wheel alignment equipment, wheel balancers, tire changers, vehicle lifts, test lane systems, collision repair equipment, air conditioning service equipment, brake service equipment, fluid exchange
equipment, transmission troubleshooting equipment, safety testing equipment, battery chargers and hoists.

Snap-on supports
the sale of its diagnostics and vehicle service shop equipment by offering training programs as well as after sales support for its customers, primarily focusing on the technologies and the application of specific products developed and marketed by
Snap-on.







2012 ANNUAL REPORT5










Products are marketed under a number of brand names and trademarks, many of which are
well known in the vehicle service and industrial markets served. Some of the major trade names and trademarks and the products and services with which they are associated include the following:





NamesProducts and Services



Snap-onHand tools, power tools, tool storage products (including tool control software and hardware), diagnostics, certain equipment and related accessories, mobile tool stores, web sites,
electronic parts catalogs, warranty analytics solutions, business management systems and services, OEM specialty tools and equipment development and distribution, and OEM facilitation services



ATIAircraft hand tools and machine tools



BAHCOSaw blades, cutting tools, pruning tools, hand tools, power tools, tool storage and diagnostics



BlackhawkCollision repair equipment



Blue-PointHand tools, power tools, tool storage units, diagnostics, certain equipment and related accessories



CartecSafety testing, brake testers, test lane equipment, dynamometers, suspension testers, emission testers and other equipment



CDITorque tools



Fish and HookHand tools and machine tools



HofmannWheel balancers, lifts, tire changers, wheel aligners, brake testers and test lane equipment



IrimoSaw blades, cutting tools, hand tools, power tools and tool storage



John BeanWheel balancers, lifts, tire changers, wheel aligners, brake testers and test lane equipment



LindströmHand tools



Mitchell1Repair and service information, shop management systems and business services



SandflexHacksaw blades, band saws, saw blades, hole saws and reciprocating saw blades



ShopKeyRepair and service information, shop management systems and business services



SiouxPower tools



SunDiagnostics and service equipment



WilliamsHand tools, tool storage, certain equipment and related accessories



Financial Services

Snap-on also generates revenue from various financing activities that include: (i) loans to franchisees’ customers and the company’s industrial and other customers for the purchase or lease
of tools, equipment and diagnostic products on an extended term payment plan; and (ii) business loans and vehicle leases to franchisees. The decision to finance through Snap-on or another financing entity is solely at the customer’s
election. When assessing customers for potential financing, Snap-on considers various factors including financial condition, collateral, debt-servicing ability, past payment experience and credit bureau information.

United States

In the
United States, Snap-on offers financing through SOC and provides financing for the majority of new contracts originated by SOC. Financing revenue from new contract originations owned and serviced by SOC is recognized by SOC over the life of the
contracts, with interest computed on the average daily balances of the underlying contracts. Prior to July 2009, SOC operated as a financial services joint venture with CIT Group Inc. (“CIT”), in which CIT was the exclusive purchaser of
the financing contracts originated by SOC in the United States. For contracts sold to CIT, SOC continues to service the contracts for a servicing fee, with such revenue recognized over the remaining contractual term of the loans.







6SNAP-ON INCORPORATED










International

Snap-on also offers financing to its franchisees and customer networks through its international finance subsidiaries located in Canada, the United Kingdom, Germany, Australia and Puerto Rico.
Snap-on’s international finance subsidiaries own and service the loans originated through their financing programs. Financing revenue from these contracts is recognized over the contractual term of the loans, with interest computed on the
average daily balances of the underlying contracts.

Other

Franchise fee revenue, including nominal, non-refundable initial and ongoing monthly fees (primarily for sales and business training, and
marketing and product promotion programs), is recognized as the fees are earned. Franchise fee revenue totaled $9.9 million, $8.8 million and $9.0 million in fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.

Sales and Distribution

Snap-on markets and distributes its products and related services principally to professional tool and equipment users around the world.
The two largest market sectors are the vehicle service and repair sector and the industrial sector.

Vehicle Service and Repair Sector

The vehicle service and repair sector has three main customer groups: (i) professional technicians who purchase
tools, equipment and diagnostic products for themselves; (ii) other professional customers related to vehicle repair, including owners and managers of independent and OEM dealership service and repair shops who purchase tools, equipment and
diagnostic products for use by multiple technicians within a service or repair facility; and (iii) OEMs.

Snap-on
provides innovative tool, equipment and business solutions, as well as technical sales support and training, designed to meet technicians’ evolving needs. Snap-on’s mobile tool van distribution system offers technicians the convenience of
purchasing quality tools at their place of business with minimal disruption of their work routine. Snap-on also provides owners and managers of shops, where technicians work, with tools, diagnostic equipment, repair and service information,
including electronic parts catalogs and shop management products. Snap-on’s OEM facilitation business provides OEMs with products and services including tools, consulting and facilitation services, which include product procurement,
distribution and administrative support to customers for their dealership equipment programs.

Major challenges in the vehicle
service and repair sector include the increasing rate of technological change within motor vehicles, vehicle population growth, vehicle life and the resulting effects on the businesses of both our suppliers and customers due to these changes.
Snap-on believes it is a meaningful participant in the market sector for vehicle service and repair.

Industrial Sector

Snap-on markets its products and services globally to a broad cross-section of commercial and industrial customers, including maintenance
and repair operations; manufacturing and assembly facilities; various government agencies, facilities and operations, including military operations; vocational and technical schools; aerospace and aviation; OEM and service and repair customers; oil
and gas developers; mining operations; energy and power generation equipment fabricators and operators; agriculture; infrastructure construction companies; and other customers that require instrumentation, service tools and/or equipment for their
product and business needs.

The industrial sector for Snap-on has achieved growth in recent years by providing value-added
products and services to an increasingly expanding global base of customers in critical industries, particularly those in the market segments of natural resources, aerospace, government and technical education. Through its experienced and dispersed
sales organization, industrial “solutioneers” develop unique and highly valued productivity solutions for customers worldwide that leverage Snap-on’s product, service and development capabilities.

Major challenges in the industrial sector include a highly competitive, cost-conscious environment, and a trend toward customers making
many of their tool and equipment purchases through one integrated supplier. Snap-on believes it is a meaningful participant in the market sector for industrial tools and equipment.







2012 ANNUAL REPORT7










Distribution Channels

Snap-on serves customers primarily through the following channels of distribution: (i) the mobile van channel; (ii) company direct sales; (iii) distributors; and (iv) e-commerce. The
following discussion summarizes Snap-on’s general approach for each channel, and is not intended to be all-inclusive.

Mobile Van
Channel

In the United States, a significant portion of sales to the vehicle service and repair sector is conducted
through Snap-on’s mobile franchise van channel. Snap-on’s franchisees primarily serve vehicle repair technicians and vehicle service shop owners, generally providing weekly contact at the customer’s place of business.
Franchisees’ sales are concentrated in hand and power tools, tool storage products and shop equipment, and diagnostic and repair information products, which can easily be transported in a van and demonstrated during a brief sales call.
Franchisees purchase Snap-on’s products at a discount from suggested list prices and resell them at prices established by the franchisee. U.S. franchisees are provided a list of places of business that serves as the basis of the
franchisee’s sales route.

Snap-on also has offered an option termed the “Gateway Franchise Program”
to potential U.S. franchisees, including those that did not meet the standard franchise qualification requirements. Gateway Franchise Program participants have less upfront investment and are provided an initial base level of
consigned inventory from Snap-on to assist them in gaining experience and building equity toward the future purchase of a standard franchise. Snap-on also provides certain franchisees the opportunity to add vans to
their franchise or to add a limited number of additional franchises. Snap-on charges nominal initial and ongoing monthly franchise fees. Since 1991, written franchise agreements have been entered into with all new U.S. franchisees and most
pre-1991 independent franchisees. As of 2012 year end, there were 3,209 vans operated by U.S. franchisees (approximately 97%) with written franchise agreements, or individuals employed by such franchisees, as compared with 3,177 vans (approximately
97%) as of 2011 year end.

In addition to its mobile van channel in the United States, Snap-on has replicated its U.S.
franchise van distribution model in certain other countries including Australia, Canada, Germany, Japan, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, South Africa, New Zealand, Belgium and Ireland. In many of these markets, as in the United States, purchase
decisions are generally made or influenced by professional vehicle service technicians as well as shop owners and managers. As of 2012 year end, Snap-on’s worldwide mobile van count was approximately 4,800, including approximately 3,500 vans in
the United States.

Through SOC, financing is available to U.S. franchisees, including financing for van and truck leases,
working capital loans, and loans to enable new franchisees to fund the purchase of the franchise. In many international markets, Snap-on offers a variety of financing options to its franchisees and/or customer networks through its international
finance subsidiaries. The decision to finance through Snap-on or another financing entity is solely at the customer’s election.

Snap-on supports its franchisees with a field organization of regional offices, franchise performance teams, Diagnostic Sales Developers (“DSDs”), customer care centers and distribution centers.
Snap-on also provides sales and business training, and marketing and product promotion programs, as well as customer and franchisee financing programs through SOC and the company’s international finance subsidiaries, all of which are designed
to strengthen franchisee sales. In North America, the United States National Franchise Advisory Council and the Canadian National Franchise Advisory Council, both of which are composed primarily of franchisees that are elected by franchisees, assist
Snap-on in identifying and implementing enhancements to the franchise program.

In the United States, franchisees work closely
with DSDs. DSDs train franchisees on the sale of higher-price-point diagnostics and demonstrate and sell vehicle service shop management and information systems. DSDs work independently and with franchisees to identify and generate sales among
vehicle service technicians, shop owners and managers. DSDs are Snap-on employees who are compensated through a combination of base salary and commission; a franchisee receives a brokerage fee from certain sales made by the DSDs to the
franchisee’s customers. Most products sold through franchisees and DSDs are sold under the Snap-on, Blue-Point and ShopKey brand names.

Snap-on also has a company-owned van program in the United States that is designed to: (i) provide another pool of potential franchisees and field organization personnel; (ii) service customers
in select new and/or open routes not currently serviced by franchisees; and (iii) allow Snap-on to pilot new sales and promotional ideas prior to introducing them to franchisees. As of 2012 year end, company-owned vans comprised
approximately 5% of the total U.S. van population; Snap-on may elect to increase or reduce the number of company-owned vans in the future.







8SNAP-ON INCORPORATED










Company Direct Sales

A significant proportion of shop equipment sales in North America under the John Bean, Hofmann and Blackhawk brands, diagnostic products under the Snap-on brand and information products under the
Mitchell1 brand are made by direct and independent sales forces that have responsibility for national and other accounts. As the vehicle service and repair sector consolidates (with more business conducted by national chains and franchised
service centers), Snap-on believes these larger organizations can be serviced most effectively by sales people who can demonstrate and sell the full line of equipment and diagnostic products and services. Snap-on also sells these products and
services directly to OEMs and their franchised dealers.

Snap-on brand tools and equipment are marketed to industrial and
governmental customers in the United States through both industrial sales representatives, who are employees, and independent industrial distributors. Outside of the United States, industrial sales are also conducted through other independent
distributors. Sales representatives focus on industrial customers whose main purchase criteria are quality and service. As of 2012 year end, Snap-on had industrial sales representatives in the United States (including Puerto Rico), Australia,
Canada, Japan, Mexico and various European, Asian, Latin American and Middle Eastern countries, with the United States representing the majority of Snap-on’s total industrial sales.

Snap-on also sells software, services and solutions to the automotive, power equipment and sports segments. Products and services are
marketed to targeted groups, including OEMs and their dealerships and individual repair shops. To effectively reach OEMs, such as General Motors Company, Daimler AG, Ford Motor Company, Chrysler Group LLC, Toyota Motor Corporation, John Deere
(Deere & Company), CNH Global N.V., JC Bamford Excavators Ltd. (JCB), and Yamaha Corporation, Snap-on has deployed focused business teams globally.

Distributors

Sales of certain tools and equipment are made through
independent distributors who purchase the items from Snap-on and resell them to end users. Hand tools under the BAHCO, Fish and Hook, and Lindström brands and trade names, for example, are sold through distributors in Europe, North and South
America, Asia and certain other parts of the world. Wheel service and other vehicle service equipment are sold through distributors primarily under brands including Hofmann, John Bean, Cartec and Blackhawk. Diagnostics and equipment are marketed
through distributors in South America and Asia, and through both a direct sales force and distributors in Europe under the Snap-on, Sun, BAHCO and Blue-Point brands.

E-commerce

Snap-on’s e-commerce development initiatives allow
Snap-on to combine the capabilities of the internet with Snap-on’s existing brand sales and distribution strengths to reach new and under-served customer segments. Snap-on offers current and prospective customers online, around-the-clock access
to research and purchase products through its public internet web site atwww.snapon.com. The site features an online catalog containing nearly 15,000 products, including Snap-on hand tools, power tools, tool storage units and diagnostic
equipment available to consumers and professionals in the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada and Australia. As of 2012 year end, Snap-on had more than 900,000 registered users, including approximately 51,000 industrial accounts. E-commerce
and certain other system enhancement initiatives are designed to improve productivity and further leverage the one-on-one relationships and service Snap-on has with its current and prospective customers. Through business-to-business and
business-to-consumer capabilities, Snap-on and its franchisees are enhancing communications with customers on a real-time, 24 hour, 7 day a week basis.

Competition

Snap-on competes on the basis of its product quality and
performance, product line breadth and depth, service, brand awareness and imagery, technological innovation and availability of financing (through SOC or its international finance subsidiaries). While no single company competes with Snap-on across
all of its product lines and distribution channels, various companies compete in one or more product categories and/or distribution channels.







2012 ANNUAL REPORT9










Snap-on believes it is a leading manufacturer and distributor of professional tools,
tool storage, diagnostics, equipment, repair software and solutions, offering a broad line of these products to both vehicle service and industrial marketplaces. Various competitors target and sell to professional technicians in the automotive
service and repair sector through the mobile van channel; Snap-on also competes with companies that sell tools and equipment to automotive technicians through retail stores and online, auto parts supply outlets, and tool supply
warehouses/distributorships. Within the power tools category and the industrial sector, Snap-on has various other competitors, including companies with offerings that overlap with other areas discussed herein. Major competitors selling diagnostics,
shop equipment and information to automotive dealerships and independent repair shops include OEMs and their proprietary electronic parts catalogs, diagnostics and information systems, as well as other companies that offer products serving this
sector.

Raw Materials and Purchased Product

Snap-on’s supply of raw materials and purchased components are generally and readily available from numerous suppliers. Snap-on believes it has secured an ample supply of both bar and coil steel for
the near future to ensure stable supply to meet material demands. The company does not currently anticipate experiencing any significant impact in 2013 from steel pricing or availability issues.

Patents, Trademarks and Other Intellectual Property

Snap-on vigorously pursues and relies on patent protection to protect its intellectual property and position in its markets. As of 2012 year end, Snap-on and its subsidiaries held over 600 active and
pending patents in the United States and over 1,500 active and pending patents outside of the United States. Sales relating to any single patent did not represent a material portion of Snap-on’s revenues in any of the last three years.

Examples of products that have features or designs that benefit from patent protection include wheel alignment systems, wheel
balancers, tire changers, lifts, test lanes, sealed ratchets, electronic torque instruments, ratcheting screwdrivers, emissions-sensing devices and diagnostic equipment.

Much of the technology used in the manufacture of vehicle service tools and equipment is in the public domain. Snap-on relies primarily on trade secret protection to protect proprietary processes used in
manufacturing. Methods and processes are patented when appropriate. Copyright protection is also utilized when appropriate.

Trademarks used by Snap-on are of continuing importance to Snap-on in the marketplace. Trademarks have been registered in the United
States and more than 100 other countries, and additional applications for trademark registrations are pending. Snap-on vigorously polices proper use of its trademarks. Snap-on’s right to manufacture and sell certain products is dependent upon
licenses from others; however, these products under license do not represent a material portion of Snap-on’s net sales.

Domain names have become a valuable corporate asset for companies around the world, including Snap-on. Domain names often contain a
trademark or service mark or even a corporate name and are often considered intellectual property. The recognition and value of the Snap-on name, trademark and domain name are core strengths of the company.

Snap-on strategically licenses the Snap-on brand to carefully selected manufacturing and distribution companies for items such as
apparel, work boots, lighting and a variety of other goods, in order to further build equity and market presence for the company’s strongest brand.

Environmental

Snap-on is subject to various environmental laws,
ordinances, regulations, and other requirements of government authorities in the United States and other nations. At Snap-on, these environmental liabilities are managed through the Snap-on Environmental, Health and Safety Management System
(“EH & SMS”), which is applied worldwide. The system is based upon continual improvement and is certified to ISO 14001:2004 and OHSAS 18001:2007, verified through Det Norske Veritas (DNV) Certification, Inc.







10SNAP-ON INCORPORATED










Snap-on believes that it complies with applicable environmental control requirements in
its operations. Expenditures on environmental matters through EH & SMS have not had, and Snap-on does not for the foreseeable future expect them to have, a material effect upon Snap-on’s capital expenditures, earnings or competitive
position.

Employees

Snap-on employed approximately 11,200 people at the end of January 2013; Snap-on employed approximately 11,500 people at the end of January 2012.

Approximately 2,700 employees, or 24% of Snap-on’s worldwide workforce, are represented by unions and/or covered under collective
bargaining agreements. The number of covered union employees whose contracts expire within the next five years approximates 900 employees in 2013; 1,350 employees in 2014; and 50 employees in 2015. There are no contracts currently scheduled to
expire in 2016 or 2017. In recent years, Snap-on has not experienced any significant work slow-downs, stoppages or other labor disruptions.

There can be no assurance that these and other future contracts with Snap-on’s unions will be renegotiated upon terms acceptable to Snap-on.

Working Capital

Most of Snap-on’s businesses are not seasonal and
their inventory needs are relatively constant. Snap-on did not have a significant backlog of orders at 2012 year end. In recent years, Snap-on has been using its working capital to fund, in part, the growth of the on-book receivables originated by
SOC.

Snap-on’s liquidity and capital resources and use of working capital are discussed herein in “Part II,
Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”

As of 2012
year end, neither Snap-on nor any of its segments depend on any single customer, small group of customers or government for any material part of its revenues.

