Item 1: Business

Snap-onwas incorporated under the laws of the state of Wisconsin in 1920 and reincorporated
under the laws of the state of Delaware in 1930.Snap-onis a leading global innovator, manufacturer and marketer of tools, equipment, diagnostics, repair information and systems solutions for professional
users performing critical tasks. Products and services include hand and power tools, tool storage, diagnostics software, information and management systems, shop equipment and other solutions for vehicle dealerships and repair centers, as well as
for customers in industries, including aviation and aerospace, agriculture, construction, government and military, mining, natural resources, power generation and technical education.Snap-onalso derives
income from various financing programs designed to facilitate the sales of its products and support its franchise business.

Snap-onmarkets its products and brands worldwide through multiple sales distribution channels in more than 130 countries.Snap-on’slargest geographic markets include the United States, Europe, Canada and Asia/Pacific.Snap-onreaches its customers through the company’s
franchisee, company-direct, distributor and internet channels.Snap-onoriginated the mobile tool distribution channel in the automotive repair market.



Snap-on’sprimary
customer segments include: (i) commercial and industrial customers, including professionals in critical industries and emerging markets; (ii) professional vehicle repair technicians who purchase products through the company’s
worldwide mobile tool distribution network; and (iii) other professional customers related to vehicle repair, including owners and managers of independent and original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) dealership service and repair shops
(“OEM dealerships”).Snap-on’sFinancial Services customer segment includes: (i) franchisees’ customers and certain other customers ofSnap-onwho require financing for the purchase or lease of tools and diagnostics and equipment products on an extended-term payment plan; and (ii) franchisees who require financing for business loans and vehicle leases.









4SNAP-ON INCORPORATED










Snap-onevaluates the performance of its
operating segments based on segment revenues, including both external and intersegment net sales, and segment operating earnings.Snap-onaccounts for intersegment sales and transfers based primarily on
standard costs with reasonablemark-upsestablished between the segments. Identifiable assets by segment are those assets used in the respective reportable segment’s operations. Corporate assets consist
of cash and cash equivalents (excluding cash held at Financial Services), deferred income taxes and certain other assets. All significant intersegment amounts are eliminated to arrive atSnap-on’sconsolidated financial results.

Recent Acquisitions

On November 16, 2016,Snap-onacquired Ryeson Corporation (d/b/a Sturtevant Richmont) for a preliminary cash purchase price of $12.9 million (or
$12.5 million, net of cash acquired). The preliminary purchase price is subject to change based upon the finalization of a working capital adjustment that is expected to be completed in the first quarter of 2017. Sturtevant Richmont, based in
Carol Stream, Illinois, designs, manufactures and distributes mechanical and electronic torque wrenches as well as wireless torque error proofing systems for a variety of industrial applications. The acquisition of Sturtevant Richmont enhanced and
expandedSnap-on’scapabilities in providing solutions that address torque requirements, which are increasingly essential to critical mechanical performance. For segment reporting purposes, the results of
operations and assets of Sturtevant Richmont have been included in the Commercial & Industrial Group since the acquisition date.

On October 31, 2016,Snap-onacquiredCar-O-LinerHolding AB(“Car-O-Liner”)for a preliminary cash purchase price of $151.8 million (or $147.9 million, net of cash acquired). The preliminary purchase price is
subject to change based upon the finalization of a working capital adjustment that is expected to be completed in the first quarter of 2017.Car-O-Liner,headquartered
in Gothenburg, Sweden, designs and manufactures collision repair equipment, and information and truck alignment systems. The acquisition ofCar-O-Linercomplemented
and increasedSnap-on’sexisting equipment and repair and service information product offerings, broadened its established capabilities in serving vehicle repair facilities and further expanded the
company’s presence with repair shop owners and managers. For segment reporting purposes, substantially all ofCar-O-Liner’sresults of operations and
assets have been included in the Repair Systems & Information Group since the acquisition date, with the remaining portions included in the Commercial & Industrial Group.

On July 27, 2015,Snap-onacquired the assets of Ecotechnics S.p.A.
(“Ecotechnics”) for a cash purchase price of $11.8 million. Ecotechnics designs and manufactures vehicle air conditioning service equipment for OEM dealerships and the automotive aftermarket worldwide. The acquisition of the
Ecotechnics product line complemented and increasedSnap-on’sexisting equipment product offering for OEM dealerships and independent automotive repair shops, broadened its established capabilities in
serving vehicle repair facilities, and expanded the company’s presence with repair shop owners and managers.

On
May 28, 2014,Snap-onacquired substantially all of the assets ofPro-CutInternational, Inc.(“Pro-Cut”)for a
cash purchase price of $41.3 million.Pro-Cutdesigns, manufactures and distributeson-carbrake lathes, related equipment and accessories used in brake servicing
by automotive repair facilities. The acquisition of thePro-Cutproduct line complemented and increasedSnap-on’sexisting undercar equipment product offering,
broadened its established capabilities in serving vehicle repair facilities and expanded the company’s presence with repair shop owners and managers.

For segment reporting purposes, the results of operations and assets of Ecotechnics andPro-Cuthave been included in the Repair Systems & Information
Group since the respective acquisition dates.

Pro forma financial information has not been presented for any of these
acquisitions as the net effects, individually and collectively, were neither significant nor material toSnap-on’sresults of operations or financial position.







2016 ANNUAL REPORT5










Information Available on the Company’s Website

Snap-on

www.snapon.com

Snap-on

10-K.

Snap-on’s

10-K,

10-Q,

8-K,

www.snapon.com

Snap-on

www.sec.gov

1-800-732-0330.

Snap-on’s

Snap-on

www.snapon.com

Products and Services

Tools, Diagnostics and Repair Information, and Equipment

Snap-onoffers a broad line of products and complementary services that are grouped into three product categories: (i) tools; (ii) diagnostics and repair
information; and (iii) equipment. Further product line information is not presented as it is not practicable to do so. The following table shows the consolidated net sales of these product categories for the last three years:



Net Sales(Amounts in millions)201620152014Product Category:Tools$1,899.2$1,910.1$1,868.5Diagnostics and repair information748.2689.6689.5Equipment783.0753.1719.7$3,430.4$3,352.8$3,277.7

Thetoolsproduct category includes hand tools, power tools and tool storage products. Hand tools
include wrenches, sockets, ratchet wrenches, pliers, screwdrivers, punches and chisels, saws and cutting tools, pruning tools, torque measuring instruments and other similar products. Power tools include cordless (battery), pneumatic (air),
hydraulic and corded (electric) tools, such as impact wrenches, ratchets, screwdrivers, drills, sanders, grinders and similar products. Tool storage includes tool chests, roll cabinets and other similar products. For many industrial customers,Snap-oncreates specific, engineered solutions, including facility-level tool control and asset management hardware and software, custom kits in a wide range of configurations, and custom-built tools designed to
meet customer requirements. The majority of products are manufactured bySnap-onand, in completing the product offering, other items are purchased from external manufacturers.

Thediagnostics and repair informationproduct category includes handheld andPC-baseddiagnostic products, service and repair information products, diagnostic software solutions, electronic parts catalogs, business management systems and services,point-of-salesystems, integrated systems for vehicle service shops, OEM purchasing facilitation services, and warranty management systems and analytics to help OEM
dealerships manage and track performance.

Theequipmentproduct category includes solutions for the diagnosis and
service of vehicles and industrial equipment. Products include wheel alignment equipment, wheel balancers, tire changers, vehicle lifts, test lane systems, collision repair equipment, vehicle air conditioning service equipment, brake service
equipment, fluid exchange equipment, transmission troubleshooting equipment, safety testing equipment, battery chargers and hoists.







6SNAP-ON INCORPORATED










Snap-onsupports the sale of its diagnostics and
vehicle service shop equipment by offering training programs as well as after-sales support for its customers, primarily focusing on the technologies and the application of specific products developed and marketed bySnap-on.

Products are marketed under a number of brand names and trademarks, many of
which are well known in the vehicle service and industrial markets served. Some of the major trade names and trademarks and the products and services with which they are associated include the following:





NamesProducts and Services



Snap-onHand tools, power tools, tool storage products (including tool control software and hardware), diagnostics, certain equipment and related accessories, mobile
tool stores, websites, electronic parts catalogs, warranty analytics solutions, business management systems and services, OEM specialty tools and equipment development and distribution, and OEM facilitation services



ATIAircraft hand tools and machine tools



BAHCOSaw blades, cutting tools, pruning tools, hand tools, power tools and tool storage



BlackhawkCollision repair equipment



Blue-PointHand tools, power tools, tool storage, diagnostics, certain equipment and related accessories



CartecSafety testing, brake testers, test lane equipment, dynamometers, suspension testers, emission testers and other equipment



Car-O-LinerCollision repair equipment, and information and truck alignment systems



CDITorque tools



ChallengerVehicle lifts



EcotechnicsVehicle air conditioning service equipment



Fish and HookSaw blades, cutting tools, pruning tools, hand tools, power tools and tool storage



HofmannWheel balancers, vehicle lifts, tire changers, wheel aligners, brake testers and test lane equipment



IrimoSaw blades, cutting tools, hand tools, power tools and tool storage



John BeanWheel balancers, vehicle lifts, tire changers, wheel aligners, brake testers and test lane equipment



JosamHeavy duty alignment and collision repair solutions



LindströmHand tools



Mitchell1Repair and service information, shop management systems and business services



NexiqDiagnostic tools, information and program distributions for fleet and heavy duty equipment



Pro-CutOn-carbrake lathes, related equipment and accessories



SandflexHacksaw blades, bandsaws, saw blades, hole saws and reciprocating saw blades



ShopKeyRepair and service information, shop management systems and business services



SiouxPower tools



Sturtevant RichmontTorque tools



SunDiagnostic tools, wheel balancers, vehicle lifts, tire changers, wheel aligners, air conditioning products and emission testers



TruckCamCommercial OEM factory solutions



WilliamsHand tools, tool storage, certain equipment and related accessories







2016 ANNUAL REPORT7










Financial Services

Snap-onalso generates revenue from various financing programs that include: (i) installment
sales and lease contracts arising from franchisees’ customers and certain other customers ofSnap-onwho require financing for the purchase or lease of tools and diagnostic and equipment products on an
extended-term payment plan; and (ii) business loans and vehicle leases to franchisees. The decision to finance throughSnap-onor another financing source is solely at the customer’s election. When
assessing customers for potential financing,Snap-onconsiders various factors regarding ability to pay, including the customers’ financial condition, debt-servicing ability, past payment experience, and
credit bureau and proprietary Snap-on credit model information, as well as the value of the underlying collateral.

Snap-onoffers financing through SOC and the company’s international finance subsidiaries in those markets whereSnap-onhas franchise operations. Financing revenue from
contract originations is recognized over the life of the underlying contracts, with interest computed primarily on the average daily balances of the underlying contracts.

Sales and Distribution

Snap-onmarkets and distributes its products and related services principally to professionaltool and equipment users around the world. The two largest market sectors are the vehicle service and repair sector and the industrial sector.

Vehicle Service and Repair Sector

The vehicle service and repair sector has three main customer groups: (i) professional technicians who purchase tools and diagnostic and equipment products for use in their work; (ii) other
professional customers related to vehicle repair, including owners and managers of independent repair shops and OEM dealerships who purchase tools and diagnostic and equipment products for use by multiple technicians within a service or repair
facility; and (iii) OEMs.

Snap-onprovides innovative tool, equipment and
business solutions, as well as technical sales support and training, designed to meet technicians’ evolving needs.Snap-on’smobile tool distribution system offers technicians the convenience of
purchasing quality tools at their place of business with minimal disruption of their work routine.Snap-onalso provides owners and managers of repair shops, where technicians work, with tools, diagnostic
equipment, and repair and service information, including electronic parts catalogs and shop management products.Snap-on’sOEM facilitation business provides OEMs with products and services including
tools, consulting and facilitation services, which include product procurement, distribution and administrative support to customers for their dealership equipment programs.

The vehicle service and repair sector is characterized by an increasing rate of technological change within motor vehicles, vehicle population growth and increasing vehicle life, and the resulting effects
of these changes on the businesses of both our suppliers and customers.Snap-onbelieves it is a meaningful participant in the vehicle service and repair market sector.

Industrial Sector

Snap-onmarkets its products and services globally to a broad cross-section of commercial and industrial customers, including maintenance and repair operations; manufacturing and assembly facilities; various
government agencies, facilities and operations, including military operations; vocational and technical schools; aviation and aerospace operations; oil and gas developers; mining operations; energy and power generation; equipment fabricators and
operators; railroad manufacturing and maintenance; customers in agriculture; infrastructure construction companies; and other customers that require instrumentation, service tools and/or equipment for their product and business needs.

The industrial sector forSnap-onfocuses on providing value-added products and services to an
increasingly expanding global base of customers in critical industries. Through its experienced and dispersed sales organization, industrial “solutioneers” develop unique and highly valued productivity solutions for customers worldwide
that leverageSnap-on’sproduct, service and development capabilities.

The
industrial sector is characterized by a highly competitive, cost-conscious environment, and a trend toward customers making many of their tool and equipment purchases through one integrated supplier. Industrial customers increasingly require
specialized solutions that provide repeatability and reliability in performing tasks of consequence that are specific to the particular end market in which they operate.Snap-onbelieves it is a meaningful
participant in the industrial tools and equipment market sector.







8SNAP-ON INCORPORATED










Distribution Channels

Snap-onserves customers primarily through the following channels of distribution: (i) the mobile van channel; (ii) company direct sales;
(iii) distributors; and(iv) e-commerce.The following discussion summarizesSnap-on’sgeneral approach for each channel, and is not intended to beall-inclusive.

Mobile Van Channel

In the United States, a significant portion of sales to the vehicle service and repair sector is conducted throughSnap-on’smobile franchise van channel.Snap-on’sfranchisees primarily serve vehicle repair technicians and vehicle service shop owners, generally providing weekly
contact at the customer’s place of business. Franchisees’ sales are concentrated in hand and power tools, tool storage products, shop equipment, and diagnostic and repair information products, which can easily be transported in a van or
trailer and demonstrated during a brief sales call. Franchisees purchaseSnap-on’sproducts at a discount from suggested list prices and resell them at prices established by the franchisee. U.S.
franchisees are provided a list of calls that serves as the basis of the franchisee’s sales route.Snap-on’sfranchisees also have the opportunity to add a limited number of additional franchises.

Snap-oncharges nominal initial and ongoing monthly franchise fees. Franchise
fee revenue, including nominal,non-refundableinitial and ongoing monthly fees (primarily for sales and business training, and marketing and product promotion programs), is recognized as the fees are earned.
Franchise fee revenue totaled $13.9 million, $12.7 million and $12.1 million in fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively.

Snap-onalso has a company-owned route program that is designed to: (i) provide another pool of potential field organization personnel; (ii) service
customers in select new and/or open routes not currently serviced by franchisees; and (iii) allowSnap-onto pilot new sales and promotional ideas prior to introducing them to franchisees. As of 2016
year end, company-owned routes comprised less than 3% of the total route population;Snap-onmay elect to increase or reduce the number of company-owned routes in the future.

In addition to its mobile van channel in the United States,Snap-onhas replicated its U.S.
franchise distribution model in certain other countries including the United Kingdom, Canada, Japan, Australia, Germany, Netherlands, South Africa, New Zealand, Belgium and Ireland. In many of these markets, as in the United States, purchase
decisions are generally made or influenced by professional vehicle service technicians as well as repair shop owners and managers. As of 2016 year end,Snap-on’sworldwide route count was approximately
4,900, including approximately 3,500 routes in the United States.

Through SOC, financing is available to U.S. franchisees,
including financing for van leases, working capital loans and loans to help enable new franchisees to fund the purchase of the franchise. In many international markets,Snap-onoffers a variety of financing
options to its franchisees and/or customer networks through its international finance subsidiaries. The decision to finance throughSnap-onor another financing source is solely at the customer’s
election.

Snap-onsupports its franchisees with a field organization of regional
offices, franchise performance teams, customer care centers and distribution centers.Snap-onalso provides sales and business training, and marketing and product promotion programs, as well as customer and
franchisee financing programs through SOC and the company’s international finance subsidiaries, all of which are designed to strengthen franchisee sales. National Franchise Advisory Councils in the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada and
Australia, composed primarily of franchisees that are elected by franchisees, assistSnap-onin identifying and implementing enhancements to the franchise program.

Company Direct Sales

A
significant proportion of shop equipment sales in North America under the John Bean, Hofmann, Blackhawk,Car-O-Liner,Challenger andPro-Cutbrands, diagnostic products under theSnap-onbrand and information products under the Mitchell1 brand are made by direct and independent sales forces that have
responsibility for national and other accounts. As the vehicle service and repair sector consolidates (with more business conducted by national chains and franchised service centers),Snap-onbelieves
these larger organizations can be serviced most effectively by sales people who can demonstrate and sell the full line of diagnostic and equipment products andservices. Snap-onalso sells these products
and services directly to OEMs and their franchised dealers.







2016 ANNUAL REPORT9










Snap-onbrand tools and equipment are marketed
to industrial and governmental customers worldwide through both industrial sales associates and independent distributors. Selling activities focus on industrial customers whose main purchase criteria are quality and integrated solutions. As of 2016
year end,Snap-onhad industrial sales associates and independent distributors primarily in the United States and in various European, Latin American, Middle Eastern, Asian and African countries, with the
United States representing the majority ofSnap-on’stotal industrial sales.

Snap-onalso sells software, services and solutions to the automotive, commercial, heavy duty, agriculture, power equipment and power sports segments. Products and services are marketed to targeted groups, including
OEMs and their dealerships, fleets and individual repair shops. To effectively reach OEMs, which frequently have a multi-national presence,Snap-onhas deployed focused business teams globally.

Distributors

Sales of
certain tools and equipment are made through independent distributors who purchase the items fromSnap-onand resell them to end users. Hand tools sold under the BAHCO, Fish and Hook, Irimo, Lindström,
CDI, ATI, Sioux, Sturtevant Richmont and Williams brands and trade names, for example, are sold through distributors in Europe, North and South America, Asia and certain other parts of the world. Wheel service and other vehicle service equipment are
sold through distributors primarily under brands including Hofmann, John Bean,Car-O-Liner,Challenger,Pro-Cut,Cartec,
Blackhawk and Ecotechnics. Diagnostic and equipment products are marketed through distributors in South America and Asia, and through both a direct sales force and distributors in Europe under theSnap-on,Sun
and Blue-Point brands.

E-commerce

Snap-onoffers current and prospective customers online access to research and purchase products
through its public website atwww.snapon.com. The site features an online catalog ofSnap-onhand tools, power tools, tool storage units and diagnostic equipment available to customers in the
United States, the United Kingdom, Canada and Australia.E-commerceand certain other system enhancement initiatives are designed to improve productivity and further leverage theone-on-onerelationships and serviceSnap-onhas with its current and prospective customers. Sales through the company’se-commercedistribution channel were not significant in any of the last three years.

Competition

Snap-oncompetes on the basis of its product quality and performance, product
line breadth and depth, service, brand awareness and imagery, technological innovation and availability of financing (through SOC or its international finance subsidiaries). WhileSnap-ondoes not believe that
any single company competes with it across all of its product lines and distribution channels, various companies compete in one or more product categories and/or distribution channels.

Snap-onbelieves it is a leading manufacturer and distributor of professional tools, tool
storage, diagnostic and equipment products, and repair software and solutions, offering a broad line of these products to both vehicle service and industrial marketplaces. Various competitors target and sell to professional technicians in the
vehicle service and repair sector through the mobile tool distribution channel.Snap-onalso competes with companies that sell tools and equipment to vehicle service and repair technicians online and through
retail stores, vehicle parts supply outlets and tool supply warehouses/distributorships. Within the power tools category and the industrial sector,Snap-onhas various other competitors, including companies
with offerings that overlap with other areas discussed herein. Major competitors selling diagnostics, shop equipment and information to vehicle dealerships and independent repair shops include OEMs and their proprietary electronic parts catalogs and
diagnostics and information systems, and other companies that offer products serving this sector.

Raw Materials and Purchased Product

Snap-on’ssupply of raw materials and purchased components are generally and
readily available from numerous suppliers.Snap-onbelieves it has secured an ample supply of both bar and coil steel for the near future to ensure stable supply to meet material demands. The company does not
currently anticipate experiencing any significant impact in 2017 from steel pricing or availability issues.







10SNAP-ON INCORPORATED










Patents, Trademarks and Other Intellectual Property

Snap-onvigorously pursues and relies on patent protection to protect its intellectual property
and position in its markets. As of 2016 year end,Snap-onand its subsidiaries held approximately 700 active and pending patents in the United States and approximately 1,600 active and pending patents outside
of the United States. Sales relating to any single patent did not represent a material portion ofSnap-on’srevenues in any of the last three years.

Examples of products that have features or designs that benefit from patent protection include wheel alignment systems, wheel balancers,
tire changers, vehicle lifts, tool storage, tool control, collision measurement, test lanes, brake lathes, sealed ratchets, electronic torque instruments, ratcheting screwdrivers, emissions-sensing devices and diagnostic equipment.

Much of the technology used in the manufacture of vehicle service tools and equipment is in the public domain.Snap-onrelies primarily on trade secret protection to protect proprietary processes used in manufacturing. Methods and processes are patented when appropriate. Copyright protection is also utilized when
appropriate.

Trademarks used bySnap-onare of continuing importance toSnap-onin the marketplace. Trademarks have been registered in the United States and many other countries, and additional applications for trademark registrations are pending.Snap-onvigorously polices proper use of its trademarks.Snap-on’sright to manufacture and sell certain products is dependent upon licenses from others; however,
these products under license do not represent a material portion ofSnap-on’snet sales.

Domain names have become a valuable corporate asset for companies around the world, includingSnap-on.Domain names often contain a trademark or service mark or
even a corporate name and are often considered intellectual property. The recognition and value of theSnap-onname, trademark and domain name are core strengths of the company.

Snap-onstrategically licenses theSnap-onbrand to
carefully selected manufacturing and distribution companies for items such as apparel, work boots, lighting and a variety of other goods, in order to further build brand awareness and market presence for the company’s strongest brand.

Environmental

Snap-onis subject to various environmental laws, ordinances, regulations, and other requirements of government authorities in the United States and other nations.
AtSnap-on,these environmental liabilities are managed through theSnap-onEnvironmental, Health and Safety Management System (“EH & SMS”), which is
applied worldwide. The system is based upon continual improvement and is certified to ISO 14001:2004 and OHSAS 18001:2007, verified through Det Norske Veritas (DNV) Certification, Inc.

Snap-onbelieves that it complies with applicable environmental control requirements in its
operations. Expenditures on environmental matters through EH & SMS have not had, andSnap-ondoes not for the foreseeable future expect them to have, a material effect uponSnap-on’scapital expenditures, earnings or competitive position.

Employees

Snap-onemployed approximately 12,100 people at the end of January 2017;Snap-onemployed approximately 11,500 people at the end of January 2016. The year-over-year increase in employees primarily reflects theCar-O-Linerand Sturtevant Richmont acquisitions.

Approximately 2,800 employees, or 23% ofSnap-on’sworldwide workforce, are represented by unions and/or covered under collective bargaining agreements. The
number of covered union employees whose contracts expire over the next five years approximates 2,100 employees in 2017, 500 employees in 2018, and 200 employees in 2019; there are no contracts currently scheduled to expire in 2020 or 2021. In recent
years,Snap-onhas not experienced any significant work slowdowns, stoppages or other labor disruptions.

There can be no assurance that these and other future contracts withSnap-on’sunions will be renegotiated upon terms acceptable toSnap-on.







2016 ANNUAL REPORT11










Working Capital

Most ofSnap-on’sbusinesses are not seasonal and their inventory needs are relatively constant.Snap-ondid not have a
significant backlog of orders at 2016 year end. In recent years,Snap-onhas been using its working capital to fund, in part, the continued growth of the company’s financial services portfolio and the
acquisitions discussed above.

Snap-on’sliquidity and capital resources and use
of working capital are discussed herein in “Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”

As of 2016 year end, neitherSnap-onnor any of its segments depend on any single customer, small group of customers or government for any material part of its
revenues.

