Item 1: Business

Snap-on was incorporated under the laws of the state of Wisconsin in 1920 and reincorporated under the laws of the state of Delaware in
1930. Snap-on is a leading global innovator, manufacturer and marketer of tools, equipment, diagnostics, repair information and systems solutions for professional users performing critical tasks. Products and services include hand and power tools,
tool storage, diagnostics software, information and management systems, shop equipment and other solutions for vehicle dealerships and repair centers, as well as for customers in industries, including aviation and aerospace, agriculture,
construction, government and military, mining, natural resources, power generation and technical education.Snap-onalso derives income from various financing programs designed to facilitate the sales of its
products and support its franchise business.

Snap-on markets its products and brands through multiple sales distribution
channels in more than 130 countries.Snap-on’slargest geographic markets include the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada, Germany, Australia, France, Japan, Spain, Brazil, Sweden, Italy, China,
Argentina, Saudi Arabia, Mexico, the Netherlands, Denmark, India, Norway, Finland, Indonesia, Belgium and Poland. Snap-on reaches its customers through the company’s franchisee, company-direct, distributor and internet channels. Snap-on
originated the mobile tool distribution channel in the automotive repair market.

Snap-on’s primary customer segments include: (i) commercial and industrial customers, including professionals in critical industries and emerging markets; (ii) professional vehicle repair
technicians who purchase products through the company’s worldwide mobile tool distribution network; and (iii) other professional customers related to vehicle repair, including owners and managers of independent and original equipment
manufacturer (“OEM”) dealership service and repair shops (“OEM dealerships”). Snap-on’s Financial Services customer segment includes: (i) franchisees’ customers and Snap-on’s industrial and other customers who
require financing for the purchase or lease of tools and diagnostics and equipment products on an extended-term payment plan; and (ii) franchisees who require financing for business loans and vehicle leases.







4SNAP-ON INCORPORATED










Snap-on evaluates the performance of its operating segments based on segment revenues,
including both external and intersegment net sales, and segment operating earnings. Snap-on accounts for intersegment sales and transfers based primarily on standard costs with reasonable mark-ups established between the segments. Identifiable
assets by segment are those assets used in the respective reportable segment’s operations. Corporate assets consist of cash and cash equivalents (excluding cash held at Financial Services), deferred income taxes and certain other assets. All
significant intersegment amounts are eliminated to arrive at Snap-on’s consolidated financial results.

Recent Acquisitions

On July 27, 2015, Snap-on acquired the assets of Ecotechnics S.p.A. (“Ecotechnics”) for a cash purchase
price of $11.8 million. Ecotechnics designs and manufactures vehicle air conditioning service equipment for OEM dealerships and the automotive aftermarket worldwide. The acquisition of the Ecotechnics product line complemented and increased
Snap-on’s existing equipment product offering for OEM dealerships and independent automotive repair shops, broadened its established capabilities in serving vehicle repair facilities, and expanded the company’s presence with repair shop
owners and managers.

On May 28, 2014, Snap-on acquired substantially all of the assets of Pro-Cut International, Inc.
(“Pro-Cut”) for a cash purchase price of $41.3 million. Pro-Cut designs, manufactures and distributes on-car brake lathes, related equipment and accessories used in brake servicing by automotive repair facilities. The acquisition of the
Pro-Cut product line complemented and increased Snap-on’s existing undercar equipment product offering, broadened its established capabilities in serving vehicle repair facilities and expanded the company’s presence with repair shop owners
and managers.

On May 13, 2013, Snap-on acquired Challenger Lifts, Inc. (“Challenger”) for a cash purchase
price of $38.2 million. Challenger designs, manufactures and distributes a comprehensive line of vehicle lifts and accessories to a diverse customer base in the automotive repair sector. The acquisition of the Challenger vehicle lift
product line complemented and increased Snap-on’s existing undercar equipment product offering, broadened its established capabilities in serving vehicle repair facilities and expanded the company’s presence with repair shop owners and
managers.

For segment reporting purposes, the results of operations and assets of Ecotechnics, Pro-Cut and Challenger have
been included in the Repair Systems & Information Group since the respective acquisition dates. Pro forma financial information has not been presented as the net effects of these acquisitions, both individually and collectively, were
neither significant nor material to Snap-on’s results of operations or financial position.

Information Available on the
Company’s Website

www.snapon.com

Form 10-K.

10-K,

www.snapon.com

Snap-on

www.sec.gov

www.snapon.com







2015 ANNUAL REPORT5










Products and Services

Tools, Diagnostics and Repair Information, and Equipment

Snap-on
offers a broad line of products and complementary services that are grouped into three product categories: (i) tools; (ii) diagnostics and repair information; and (iii) equipment. Further product line information is not presented as
it is not practicable to do so. The following table shows the consolidated net sales of these product categories for the last three years:



Net Sales(Amounts in millions)201520142013Product Category:Tools$1,910.1$1,868.5$1,743.3Diagnostics and repair information689.6689.5652.0Equipment753.1719.7661.2$3,352.8$3,277.7$3,056.5

Thetoolsproduct category includes hand tools, power tools and tool storage products. Hand tools
include wrenches, sockets, ratchet wrenches, pliers, screwdrivers, punches and chisels, saws and cutting tools, pruning tools, torque measuring instruments and other similar products. Power tools include cordless (battery), pneumatic (air),
hydraulic and corded (electric) tools, such as impact wrenches, ratchets, screwdrivers, drills, sanders, grinders and similar products. Tool storage includes tool chests, roll cabinets and other similar products. For many industrial customers,
Snap-on creates specific, engineered solutions, including facility-level tool control and asset management hardware and software, custom kits in a wide range of configurations, and custom-built tools designed to meet customer requirements. The
majority of products are manufactured by Snap-on and, in completing the product offering, other items are purchased from external manufacturers.

Thediagnostics and repair informationproduct category includes handheld and PC-based diagnostic products, service and repair information products, diagnostic software solutions, electronic parts
catalogs, business management systems and services, point-of-sale systems, integrated systems for vehicle service shops, OEM purchasing facilitation services, and warranty management systems and analytics to help OEM dealerships manage and track
performance.

Theequipmentproduct category includes solutions for the diagnosis and service of vehicles and
industrial equipment. Products include wheel alignment equipment, wheel balancers, tire changers, vehicle lifts, test lane systems, collision repair equipment, vehicle air conditioning service equipment, brake service equipment, fluid exchange
equipment, transmission troubleshooting equipment, safety testing equipment, battery chargers and hoists.

Snap-on supports
the sale of its diagnostics and vehicle service shop equipment by offering training programs as well as after-sales support for its customers, primarily focusing on the technologies and the application of specific products developed and marketed by
Snap-on.







6SNAP-ON INCORPORATED










Products are marketed under a number of brand names and trademarks, many of which are
well known in the vehicle service and industrial markets served. Some of the major trade names and trademarks and the products and services with which they are associated include the following:





NamesProducts and Services



Snap-onHand tools, power tools, tool storage products (including tool control software and hardware), diagnostics, certain equipment and related accessories, mobile tool stores, websites,
electronic parts catalogs, warranty analytics solutions, business management systems and services, OEM specialty tools and equipment development and distribution, and OEM facilitation services



ATIAircraft hand tools and machine tools



BAHCOSaw blades, cutting tools, pruning tools, hand tools, power tools and tool storage



BlackhawkCollision repair equipment



Blue-PointHand tools, power tools, tool storage, diagnostics, certain equipment and related accessories



CartecSafety testing, brake testers, test lane equipment, dynamometers, suspension testers, emission testers and other equipment



CDITorque tools



ChallengerVehicle lifts



EcotechnicsVehicle air conditioning service equipment



Fish and HookSaw blades, cutting tools, pruning tools, hand tools, power tools and tool storage



HofmannWheel balancers, vehicle lifts, tire changers, wheel aligners, brake testers and test lane equipment



IrimoSaw blades, cutting tools, hand tools, power tools and tool storage



John BeanWheel balancers, vehicle lifts, tire changers, wheel aligners, brake testers and test lane equipment



LindströmHand tools



Mitchell1Repair and service information, shop management systems and business services



NexiqDiagnostic tools, information and program distributions for fleet and heavy duty equipment



Pro-CutOn-car brake lathes, related equipment and accessories



SandflexHacksaw blades, bandsaws, saw blades, hole saws and reciprocating saw blades



ShopKeyRepair and service information, shop management systems and business services



SiouxPower tools



SunDiagnostic tools, wheel balancers, vehicle lifts, tire changers, wheel aligners, air conditioning products and emission testers



WilliamsHand tools, tool storage, certain equipment and related accessories







2015 ANNUAL REPORT7










Financial Services

Snap-on also generates revenue from various financing programs that include: (i) installment sales and lease contracts arising from
franchisees’ customers and Snap-on’s industrial and other customers for the purchase or lease of tools, including tool storage, and diagnostic and equipment products on an extended-term payment plan; and (ii) business loans and
vehicle leases to franchisees. The decision to finance through Snap-on or another financing entity is solely at the customer’s election. When assessing customers for potential financing, Snap-on considers various factors including financial
condition, collateral, debt-servicing ability, past payment experience, credit bureau information and proprietary credit models.

Snap-on offers financing through SOC and the company’s international finance subsidiaries in those markets whereSnap-onhas franchise operations. Financing
revenue from contract originations is recognized over the life of the contracts, with interest computed primarily on the average daily balances of the underlying contracts.

Sales and Distribution

Snap-on markets and distributes its products and
related services principally to professional tool and equipment users around the world. The two largest market sectors are the vehicle service and repair sector and the industrial sector.

Vehicle Service and Repair Sector

The vehicle service and repair sector
has three main customer groups: (i) professional technicians who purchase tools and diagnostic and equipment products for themselves; (ii) other professional customers related to vehicle repair, including owners and managers of independent
repair shops and OEM dealerships who purchase tools and diagnostic and equipment products for use by multiple technicians within a service or repair facility; and (iii) OEMs.

Snap-on provides innovative tool, equipment and business solutions, as well as technical sales support and training, designed to meet
technicians’ evolving needs. Snap-on’s mobile tool distribution system offers technicians the convenience of purchasing quality tools at their place of business with minimal disruption of their work routine.Snap-onalso provides owners and managers of repair shops, where technicians work, with tools, diagnostic equipment, and repair and service information, including electronic parts catalogs and shop management
products. Snap-on’s OEM facilitation business provides OEMs with products and services including tools, consulting and facilitation services, which include product procurement, distribution and administrative support to customers for their
dealership equipment programs.

The vehicle service and repair sector is characterized by an increasing rate of technological
change within motor vehicles, vehicle population growth and increasing vehicle life, and the resulting effects of these changes on the businesses of both our suppliers and customers. Snap-on believes it is a meaningful participant in the vehicle
service and repair market sector.

Industrial Sector

Snap-on markets its products and services globally to a broad cross-section of commercial and industrial customers, including maintenance and repair operations; manufacturing and assembly facilities;
various government agencies, facilities and operations, including military operations; vocational and technical schools; aviation and aerospace operations; OEM and service and repair customers; oil and gas developers; mining operations; energy and
power generation, equipment fabricators and operators; railroad manufacturing and maintenance; customers in agriculture; infrastructure construction companies; and other customers that require instrumentation, service tools and/or equipment for
their product and business needs.

The industrial sector for Snap-on focuses on providing value-added products and services to
an increasingly expanding global base of customers in critical industries. Through its experienced and dispersed sales organization, industrial “solutioneers” develop unique and highly valued productivity solutions for customers worldwide
that leverage Snap-on’s product, service and development capabilities.

The industrial sector is characterized by a
highly competitive, cost-conscious environment, and a trend toward customers making many of their tool and equipment purchases through one integrated supplier. Snap-on believes it is a meaningful participant in the industrial tools and equipment
market sector.







8SNAP-ON INCORPORATED










Distribution Channels

Snap-on serves customers primarily through the following channels of distribution: (i) the mobile van channel; (ii) company direct sales; (iii) distributors; and (iv) e-commerce. The
following discussion summarizes Snap-on’s general approach for each channel, and is not intended to be all-inclusive.

Mobile Van
Channel

In the United States, a significant portion of sales to the vehicle service and repair sector is conducted
throughSnap-on’smobile franchise van channel. Snap-on’s franchisees primarily serve vehicle repair technicians and vehicle service shop owners, generally providing weekly contact at the
customer’s place of business. Franchisees’ sales are concentrated in hand and power tools, tool storage products, shop equipment, and diagnostic and repair information products, which can easily be transported in a van or trailer and
demonstrated during a brief sales call. Franchisees purchaseSnap-on’sproducts at a discount from suggested list prices and resell them at prices established by the franchisee. U.S. franchisees are
provided a list of calls that serves as the basis of the franchisee’s sales route. Snap-on’s franchisees also have the opportunity to add a limited number of additional franchises.

Snap-on charges nominal initial and ongoing monthly franchise fees. Franchise fee revenue, including nominal, non-refundable initial
and ongoing monthly fees (primarily for sales and business training, and marketing and product promotion programs), is recognized as the fees are earned. Franchise fee revenue totaled $12.7 million, $12.1 million and $11.9 million in fiscal 2015,
2014 and 2013, respectively.

Snap-onalso has a company-owned route program that is
designed to: (i) provide another pool of potential field organization personnel; (ii) service customers in select new and/or open routes not currently serviced by franchisees; and (iii) allowSnap-onto pilot new sales and promotional ideas prior to introducing them to franchisees. As of 2015 year end, company-owned routes comprised approximately 3% of the total route population; Snap-on
may elect to increase or reduce the number of company-owned routes in the future.

In addition to its mobile van channel in
the United States, Snap-on has replicated its U.S. franchise distribution model in certain other countries including the United Kingdom, Canada, Japan, Australia, Germany, the Netherlands, South Africa, New Zealand, Belgium and Ireland. In many of
these markets, as in the United States, purchase decisions are generally made or influenced by professional vehicle service technicians as well as repair shop owners and managers. As of 2015 year end, Snap-on’s worldwide route count was
approximately 4,800, including approximately 3,500 routes in the United States.

Through SOC, financing is available to U.S.
franchisees, including financing for van leases, working capital loans and loans to help enable new franchisees to fund the purchase of the franchise. In many international markets,Snap-onoffers a variety of
financing options to its franchisees and/or customer networks through its international finance subsidiaries. The decision to finance throughSnap-onor another financing entity is solely at the
customer’s election.

Snap-onsupports its franchisees with a field organization
of regional offices, franchise performance teams, customer care centers and distribution centers.Snap-onalso provides sales and business training, and marketing and product promotion programs, as well as
customer and franchisee financing programs through SOC and the company’s international finance subsidiaries, all of which are designed to strengthen franchisee sales. National Franchise Advisory Councils in the United States, the United
Kingdom, Canada and Australia, composed primarily of franchisees that are elected by franchisees, assistSnap-onin identifying and implementing enhancements to the franchise program.

Company Direct Sales

A
significant proportion of shop equipment sales in North America under the John Bean, Hofmann, Blackhawk, Challenger and Pro-Cut brands, diagnostic products under theSnap-onbrand and information products
under the Mitchell1 brand are made by direct and independent sales forces that have responsibility for national and other accounts. As the vehicle service and repair sector consolidates (with more business conducted by national chains and
franchised service centers),Snap-onbelieves these larger organizations can be serviced most effectively by sales people who can demonstrate and sell the full line of diagnostic and equipment products andservices. Snap-onalso sells these products and services directly to OEMs and their franchised dealers.







2015 ANNUAL REPORT9










Snap-onbrand tools and equipment are marketed
to industrial and governmental customers in the United States through both industrial sales representatives, who are employees, and independent industrial distributors. Outside of the United States, industrial sales are also conducted through other
independent distributors. Sales representatives focus on industrial customers whose main purchase criteria are quality and integrated solutions. As of 2015 year end, Snap-on had industrial sales representatives in the United States, Australia,
Canada, Japan, Mexico, Puerto Rico and various European, Asian, Latin American, Middle Eastern and African countries, with the United States representing the majority ofSnap-on’stotal industrial sales.

Snap-on also sells software, services and solutions to the automotive, commercial, heavy duty, agriculture, power equipment
and power sports segments. Products and services are marketed to targeted groups, including OEMs and their dealerships, fleets and individual repair shops. To effectively reach OEMs, which frequently have a multi-national presence, Snap-on has
deployed focused business teams globally.

Distributors

Sales of certain tools and equipment are made through independent distributors who purchase the items fromSnap-onand resell them to end users. Hand tools sold
under the BAHCO, Fish and Hook, Irimo, Lindström and Williams brands and trade names, for example, are sold through distributors in Europe, North and South America, Asia and certain other parts of the world. Wheel service and other vehicle
service equipment are sold through distributors primarily under brands including Hofmann, John Bean, Challenger, Pro-Cut, Cartec, Blackhawk and Ecotechnics. Diagnostic and equipment products are marketed through distributors in South America and
Asia, and through both a direct sales force and distributors in Europe under theSnap-on,Sun, BAHCO and Blue-Point brands.

E-commerce

Snap-onoffers current
and prospective customers online access to research and purchase products through its public website atwww.snapon.com. The site features an online catalog ofSnap-onhand tools, power tools, tool
storage units and diagnostic equipment available to customers in the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada and Australia.E-commerceand certain other system enhancement initiatives are designed to improve
productivity and further leverage the one-on-one relationships and serviceSnap-onhas with its current and prospective customers. Sales through the company’s e-commerce distribution channel were not
significant in any of the last three years.

Competition

Snap-oncompetes on the basis of its product quality and performance, product line breadth and depth, service, brand awareness and imagery, technological innovation
and availability of financing (through SOC or its international finance subsidiaries). While Snap-on does not believe that any single company competes with it across all of its product lines and distribution channels, various companies compete in
one or more product categories and/or distribution channels.

Snap-onbelieves it is a
leading manufacturer and distributor of professional tools, tool storage, diagnostic and equipment products, and repair software and solutions, offering a broad line of these products to both vehicle service and industrial marketplaces. Various
competitors target and sell to professional technicians in the vehicle service and repair sector through the mobile tool distribution channel;Snap-onalso competes with companies that sell tools and equipment
to vehicle service and repair technicians online and through retail stores, vehicle parts supply outlets and tool supply warehouses/distributorships. Within the power tools category and the industrial sector, Snap-on has various other competitors,
including companies with offerings that overlap with other areas discussed herein. Major competitors selling diagnostics, shop equipment and information to vehicle dealerships and independent repair shops include OEMs and their proprietary
electronic parts catalogs and diagnostics and information systems, and other companies that offer products serving this sector.

Raw
Materials and Purchased Product

Snap-on’s supply of raw materials and purchased components are generally and readily
available from numerous suppliers. Snap-on believes it has secured an ample supply of both bar and coil steel for the near future to ensure stable supply to meet material demands. The company does not currently anticipate experiencing any
significant impact in 2016 from steel pricing or availability issues.







10SNAP-ON INCORPORATED










Patents, Trademarks and Other Intellectual Property

Snap-onvigorously pursues and relies on patent protection to protect its intellectual property
and position in its markets. As of 2015 year end,Snap-onand its subsidiaries held approximately 700 active and pending patents in the United States and approximately 1,550 active and pending patents outside
of the United States. Sales relating to any single patent did not represent a material portion ofSnap-on’srevenues in any of the last three years.

Examples of products that have features or designs that benefit from patent protection include wheel alignment systems, wheel balancers,
tire changers, vehicle lifts, tool storage, tool control, test lanes, brake lathes, sealed ratchets, electronic torque instruments, ratcheting screwdrivers, emissions-sensing devices and diagnostic equipment.

Much of the technology used in the manufacture of vehicle service tools and equipment is in the public domain.Snap-onrelies primarily on trade secret protection to protect proprietary processes used in manufacturing. Methods and processes are patented when appropriate. Copyright protection is also utilized when
appropriate.

Trademarks used bySnap-onare of continuing importance toSnap-onin the marketplace. Trademarks have been registered in the United States and more than 120 other countries, and additional applications for trademark registrations are pending.Snap-onvigorously polices proper use of its trademarks.Snap-on’sright to manufacture and sell certain products is dependent upon licenses from others; however,
these products under license do not represent a material portion ofSnap-on’snet sales.

Domain names have become a valuable corporate asset for companies around the world, includingSnap-on.Domain names often contain a trademark or service mark or
even a corporate name and are often considered intellectual property. The recognition and value of theSnap-onname, trademark and domain name are core strengths of the company.

Snap-onstrategically licenses theSnap-onbrand to
carefully selected manufacturing and distribution companies for items such as apparel, work boots, lighting and a variety of other goods, in order to further build equity and market presence for the company’s strongest brand.

Environmental

Snap-onis subject to various environmental laws, ordinances, regulations, and other requirements of government authorities in the United States and other nations. AtSnap-on,these environmental liabilities are managed through theSnap-onEnvironmental, Health and Safety Management System (“EH & SMS”), which is applied worldwide. The system is based upon
continual improvement and is certified to ISO 14001:2004 and OHSAS 18001:2007, verified through Det Norske Veritas (DNV) Certification, Inc.

Snap-onbelieves that it complies with applicable environmental control requirements in its operations. Expenditures on environmental matters through EH &
SMS have not had, andSnap-ondoes not for the foreseeable future expect them to have, a material effect uponSnap-on’scapital expenditures, earnings or
competitive position.

Employees

Snap-on employed approximately 11,500 people at the end of January 2016; Snap-on employed approximately 11,400 people at the end of January 2015.

Approximately 2,600 employees, or 23% of Snap-on’s worldwide workforce, are represented by unions and/or covered under collective
bargaining agreements. The number of covered union employees whose contracts expire over the next five years approximates 1,400 employees in 2016, 700 employees in 2017, and 500 employees in 2018; there are no contracts currently scheduled to expire
in 2019 or 2020. In recent years, Snap-on has not experienced any significant work slowdowns, stoppages or other labor disruptions.

There can be no assurance that these and other future contracts withSnap-on’sunions will be renegotiated upon terms acceptable toSnap-on.







2015 ANNUAL REPORT11










Working Capital

Most ofSnap-on’sbusinesses are not seasonal and their inventory needs are relatively constant. Snap-on did not have a significant backlog of orders at 2015
year end. In recent years, Snap-on has been using its working capital to fund, in part, the continued growth of the company’s financial services portfolio.

Snap-on’s liquidity and capital resources and use of working capital are discussed herein in “Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations.”

As of 2015 year end, neitherSnap-onnor any of its segments
depend on any single customer, small group of customers or government for any material part of its revenues.

