Item 1: Business

Snap-on was incorporated
under the laws of the state of Wisconsin in 1920 and reincorporated under the laws of the state of Delaware in 1930. Snap-on is a leading global innovator, manufacturer and marketer of tools, diagnostics, equipment, software and service solutions
for professional users. Products and services include hand and power tools, tool storage, diagnostics software, information and management systems, shop equipment and other solutions for vehicle dealerships and repair centers, as well as customers
in industry, government, agriculture, aviation and natural resources. Snap-on also derives income from various financing programs to facilitate the sales of its products.

Snap-on markets its products and brands through multiple distribution sales channels in approximately 130 countries. Snap-on’s largest geographic markets include the United States, the United
Kingdom, Canada, Germany, Japan, France, Australia, Spain, the Netherlands, Italy, China and Sweden. Snap-on also reaches its customers through the company’s franchisee, company-direct, distributor and internet channels. Snap-on originated the
mobile van tool distribution channel in the automotive repair market.

Snap-on’s business segments are based on the
organization structure used by management for making operating and investment decisions and for assessing performance. Snap-on’s reportable business segments include: (i) the Commercial & Industrial Group; (ii) the Snap-on
Tools Group; (iii) the Diagnostics & Information Group; and (iv) Financial Services. The Commercial & Industrial Group consists of the business operations providing tools and equipment products and equipment repair
services to a broad range of industrial and commercial customers worldwide through direct, distributor and other non-franchise distribution channels. The Snap-on Tools Group consists of the business operations serving the worldwide franchise van
channel. The Diagnostics & Information Group consists of the business operations providing diagnostics equipment, vehicle service information, business management systems, electronic parts catalogs, and other solutions for vehicle service
to customers in the worldwide vehicle service and repair marketplace. Financial Services consists of the business operations of Snap-on Credit LLC (“SOC”), the company’s financial services business in the United States, and
Snap-on’s other wholly owned finance subsidiaries in those international markets where Snap-on has franchise operations. See Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on business segments and foreign operations.

Snap-on evaluates the performance of its reportable segments based on segment revenues and operating earnings. For the
Commercial & Industrial, Snap-on Tools and the Diagnostics & Information Groups, segment net sales include both external and intersegment net sales. Snap-on accounts for intersegment sales and transfers based primarily on standard
costs with reasonable mark-ups established between the segments. Identifiable assets by segment are those assets used in the respective reportable segment’s operations. Corporate assets consist of cash and cash equivalents (excluding cash held
at Financial Services), deferred income taxes, pension assets and certain other assets. All significant intersegment amounts are eliminated to arrive at Snap-on’s consolidated financial results.

On July 16, 2009, Snap-on terminated its SOC financial services joint venture agreement with CIT Group Inc. (“CIT”) and
subsequently acquired CIT’s 50%-ownership interest in SOC for a cash purchase price of $8.1 million; as a result, SOC became a wholly owned subsidiary of Snap-on. Since the inception of the financial services joint venture agreement in 1999,
CIT had been the exclusive purchaser of loans originated by SOC in the United States. Snap-on included the accounts of SOC in its Consolidated Financial Statements as Snap-on concluded that it was the primary beneficiary of the joint venture
arrangement. From 2004 until the July 16, 2009 termination date, CIT’s ownership interest in SOC was reported in the company’s Consolidated Financial Statements as a noncontrolling interest.

On March 5, 2008, Snap-on acquired a 60% interest in Zhejiang Wanda Tools Co., Ltd. (“Wanda Snap-on”), a tool manufacturer in
China, for a cash purchase price of $15.4 million (or $14.1 million, net of cash acquired), including $1.2 million of transaction costs. On December 10, 2009, Snap-on entered into an agreement to acquire the noncontrolling shareholder’s
40% interest in Wanda Snap-on for a purchase price of 52.3 million Chinese yuan (approximately $7.7 million at 2009 year-end exchange rates). The transaction is subject to local governmental approval and is expected to close during the first
quarter of 2010. The acquisition of Wanda Snap-on is part of the company’s ongoing strategic initiatives to further expand its manufacturing presence in emerging growth markets and lower-cost regions. For segment reporting purposes, Wanda
Snap-on is included in the Commercial & Industrial Group. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the company’s acquisition of Wanda Snap-on.







4SNAP-ON INCORPORATED










Information Available on the Company’s Web Site

www.snapon.com

www.snapon.com

www.sec.gov

www.snapon.com

Products and Services

Tools, Diagnostics and Repair Information, and Equipment

Snap-on offers a broad line of products and complementary services that are grouped into three product categories: (i) tools; (ii) diagnostics and repair information; and (iii) equipment.
Further product line information is not presented as it is not practicable to do so. The following table shows the consolidated net sales of these product categories for the last three years:



Net Sales(Amounts in millions)200920082007Product Category:Tools$1,311.3$1,694.9$1,632.2Diagnostics and repair information556.5589.8647.6Equipment494.7568.6561.4$2,362.5$2,853.3$2,841.2

Thetoolsproduct category includes hand tools,
power tools and tool storage products. Hand tools include wrenches, screwdrivers, sockets, pliers, ratchets, saws and cutting tools, pruning tools, torque measuring instruments and other similar products. Power tools include pneumatic (air),
hydraulic, cordless (battery) and corded (electric) tools such as impact wrenches, ratchets, chisels, drills, sanders, polishers and similar products. Tool storage includes tool chests, roll cabinets, tool control systems and other similar products.
The majority of products are manufactured by Snap-on and, in completing the product line, other items are purchased from external manufacturers.

Thediagnostics and repair informationproduct category includes handheld and PC-based diagnostics products, service and repair information products, diagnostic software solutions, electronic parts
catalogs, business management systems, business services, point-of-sale systems, integrated systems for vehicle service shops, original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) purchasing facilitation services, and warranty management systems and
analytics to help dealerships manage and track performance.

Snap-on supports the sale of its diagnostics and vehicle service
shop equipment by offering training programs as well as after sales support for its customers, primarily focusing on the technologies and the application of specific products developed and marketed by Snap-on.

Theequipmentproduct category includes solutions for the diagnosis and service of automotive and industrial equipment. Products
include wheel alignment equipment, wheel balancers, tire changers, vehicle lifts, test lane systems, collision repair equipment, air conditioning service equipment, brake service equipment, fluid exchange equipment, transmission troubleshooting
equipment, safety testing equipment, battery chargers and hoists.







2009 ANNUAL REPORT5










Products are marketed under a number of brand names and trademarks, many of which are well known in the vehicle service and industrial markets served. Some of the major trade names and trademarks and the
products and services with which they are associated include the following:



NamesProducts and ServicesSnap-onHand tools, power tools, tool storage products, diagnostics, certain equipment and related accessories, mobile tool stores, web sites, electronic parts catalogs,
warranty analytics solutions, business management services, OEM specialty tools and equipment development and distribution, and OEM facilitation servicesATIHand toolsBAHCOSaw blades, cutting tools, pruning tools, hand tools, power tools, tool storage and diagnosticsBlackhawkCollision repair equipmentBlue-PointHand tools, power tools, tool storage units, certain equipment and related accessoriesCartecSafety testing, brake testers, test lane equipment, dynamo-meters, suspension testers, emission testers and other equipmentCDIHand toolsFish and HookHand tools and tool storageHofmannWheel balancers, lifts, tire changers, wheel aligners, brake testers and test lane equipmentIrimoSaw blades, cutting tools, hand tools, power tools and tool storageJohn BeanWheel balancers, lifts, tire changers, wheel aligners, brake testers and test lane equipmentLindströmHand toolsMitchell1Service information, shop management systems and business servicesNexiqDiagnostic tools, information and program distributions for fleet and heavy duty equipmentPalmeraSaw blades, cutting tools, hand tools, power tools and tool storageShopKeyRepair and service information, shop management systems and business servicesSiouxPower toolsSunDiagnostic and service equipmentWilliamsHand tools



Financial Services

Snap-on also generates revenue from various financing activities that include (i) loans and vehicle leases to franchisees; (ii) loans to franchisees’ customers; and (iii) loans to
Snap-on’s industrial and other customers for the purchase of tools, equipment and diagnostics products on an extended-term payment plan. The decision to finance through Snap-on or another financing entity is solely at the election of the
customer. When assessing customers for potential financing, Snap-on considers various factors regarding ability to pay including financial condition, collateral, debt-servicing ability, past payment experience and credit bureau information.

United States

In the United States, Snap-on offers financing through SOC. Subsequent to the July 16, 2009 termination of the company’s financial services joint venture agreement with CIT, Snap-on is providing
financing for the majority of new contracts originated by SOC. The financing revenue from these contracts, which are owned and serviced by SOC, is recognized by SOC over the life of the contracts, with interest computed on the average daily balances
of the underlying contracts.







6SNAP-ON INCORPORATED










From 1999 until July 16, 2009, CIT had been the exclusive purchaser of the financing contracts originated by SOC. Snap-on recorded the gains on the sales of the contracts as financial services
revenue at the time the originated contracts were sold to CIT. For contracts originated by SOC and subsequently sold to CIT prior to July 16, 2009, SOC continues to service the contracts for an estimated servicing fee and such revenue is
recognized over the contractual term of the loan.

International

Internationally, Snap-on offers financing to its franchisees and customer networks through its wholly owned finance subsidiaries located in
Canada, the United Kingdom, Australia and Puerto Rico. Snap-on’s wholly owned international finance subsidiaries own and service the loans originated through their financing programs. The financing revenue from these contracts is recognized
over the life of the contracts, with interest computed on the average daily balances of the underlying contracts.

Other

Franchise fee revenue, including nominal, non-refundable initial and ongoing monthly fees (primarily for sales,
business training, marketing and product promotion programs), is recognized as the fees are earned.

Sales and Distribution

Snap-on markets and distributes its products and related services principally to professional tool and equipment users
around the world. The two largest market sectors are the vehicle service and repair sector and the industrial sector.

Vehicle Service and Repair Sector

The vehicle service and repair sector has three main customer groups:
(i) professional technicians who purchase tools and equipment for themselves; (ii) vehicle service and repair shop owners and managers – including independent shops, national chains and automotive dealerships – who purchase
tools, equipment and diagnostics products for use by multiple technicians within a service or repair facility; and (iii) OEMs.

Snap-on provides innovative tool, equipment and business solutions, as well as technical sales support and training, to meet technicians’ evolving needs. Snap-on’s franchise van distribution system offers technicians the
convenience of purchasing quality tools with minimal disruption of their work routine. Snap-on also provides owners and managers of shops, where technicians work, with tools, diagnostics equipment, repair and service information, including
electronic parts catalogs and shop management products. Snap-on’s OEM facilitation business provides OEMs with products and services including tools, consulting and facilitation services, which include product procurement, distribution and
administrative support to customers for their dealership equipment programs.

Major challenges for Snap-on and the vehicle
service and repair sector include the increasing rate of technological change within motor vehicles, vehicle population growth, vehicle life and the resulting impact on the businesses of both our suppliers and customers that is necessitated by such
change. Snap-on believes it is a meaningful participant in the market sector for vehicle service and repair.

Industrial
Sector

Snap-on markets its products globally to a broad cross-section of industrial and commercial customers including
maintenance and repair operations; manufacturing and assembly facilities; various government agencies, facilities and operations, including military operations; vocational and technical schools; aerospace and aviation; OEM and repair customers; oil
and gas developers; mining operations; energy and power generation equipment fabricators and operators; agriculture; infrastructure construction companies; and other customers that require instrumentation, service tools and/or equipment for their
products.







2009 ANNUAL REPORT7










The industrial sector for Snap-on has achieved growth in recent years by providing value-added products and services to an increasingly expanding global base of customers, particularly those in the market
segments of natural resources (including power generation), aerospace, government and education. Through its experienced and dispersed sales organization, industrial “solutioneers” strive to develop unique and highly valued productivity
solutions for customers worldwide that leverage Snap-on’s product, service and development capabilities.

Major
challenges in the industrial sector include a highly competitive, cost-conscious environment, and a trend toward customers making many of their tool and equipment purchases through one integrated supplier. Snap-on believes it is a meaningful
participant in the market sector for industrial tools and equipment.

Distribution Channels

Snap-on serves customers primarily through the following channels of distribution: the mobile van channel, company direct sales,
distributors and e-commerce. The following discussion summarizes Snap-on’s general approach for each channel, and is not intended to be all-inclusive.

Mobile Van Channel

In the United States, the majority of sales to the
vehicle service and repair sector are conducted through Snap-on’s franchise van channel. Snap-on’s franchisees primarily serve vehicle service technicians and vehicle service shop owners, generally providing weekly contact at the
customer’s place of business. Franchisees’ sales are concentrated in hand and power tools, tool storage products, small diagnostic and shop equipment, and diagnostics and repair information products, which can easily be transported in a
van and demonstrated during a brief sales call. Franchisees purchase Snap-on’s products at a discount from suggested list prices and resell them at prices established by the franchisee. U.S. franchisees are provided a list of places of business
that serves as the basis of the franchisee’s sales route.

Snap-on also offers an option termed the
“Gateway Program” to potential U.S. franchisees that do not meet the franchise qualification requirements. Gateway Program participants have less upfront investment and are provided an initial base level of consigned
inventory from Snap-on to assist them in gaining experience and building equity toward the future purchase of a standard franchise. Snap-on also provides certain franchisees the opportunity to add vans to their franchise or
to add a limited number of additional franchises. Snap-on charges nominal initial and ongoing monthly franchise fees. Since 1991, written franchise agreements have been entered into with all new U.S. franchisees and most pre-1991 independent
franchisees. At 2009 year end there were 3,183 vans operated by U.S. franchisees (approximately 96%) with written franchise agreements, or individuals employed by such franchisees, as compared with 3,231 vans (approximately 96%) at 2008 year end.

Snap-on has replicated its U.S. franchise van distribution model in certain other countries including Australia, Canada,
Germany, Japan, the Netherlands, South Africa and the United Kingdom. In many of these markets, as in the United States, purchase decisions are generally made or influenced by professional vehicle service technicians and shop owners.

Through SOC, financing is available to U.S. franchisees, including financing for van and truck leases, working capital loans, and loans to
enable new franchisees to fund the purchase of the franchise. Internationally, Snap-on offers financing to its franchisees and customer networks through its wholly owned international finance subsidiaries. The decision to finance through Snap-on or
another financing entity is solely at the election of the customer.

Snap-on supports its franchisees with a field
organization of regional offices, franchise performance teams, Diagnostic Sales Developers (“DSDs”), customer care centers and distribution centers. Snap-on also provides sales and business training, and marketing and product promotion
programs, as well as customer and franchisee financing programs through SOC and its other wholly owned international finance subsidiaries, all of which are designed to strengthen franchisee sales. In the United States and Canada, the National
Franchise Advisory Council and the Snap-on Tools Canadian Franchise Advisory Council, both of which are composed primarily of franchisees that are elected by franchisees, assist Snap-on in identifying and implementing enhancements to the franchise
program.

In the United States, franchisees work closely with the DSDs. The DSD specialists train franchisees on the sale of
higher-price-point diagnostics and demonstrate and sell vehicle service shop management and information systems. DSDs work independently, and with franchisees, to identify and generate sales among vehicle service technicians, shop owners and
managers. DSDs are Snap-on employees who, beginning in 2008, are compensated through a combination of base salary and commission; a franchisee receives a brokerage fee from certain sales made by the DSDs to the franchisee’s customers. Most
products sold through franchisees and the DSDs are sold under the Snap-on, Blue-Point and Sun brand names.







8SNAP-ON INCORPORATED










Snap-on also has a company-owned van program in the United States that is designed to (i) provide another pool of potential franchisees and field organization personnel; (ii) service customers
in select new and/or open routes not currently serviced by franchisees; and (iii) allow Snap-on to pilot new sales and promotional ideas prior to introducing them to franchisees. As of 2009 year end, company-owned vans comprised
approximately 5% of the total U.S. van population; Snap-on may elect to increase the number of company-owned vans in the future.

Company Direct Sales

A significant proportion of shop equipment sales in the United States under the John
Bean and Blackhawk brands, diagnostic products under the Snap-on brand and information products under the Mitchell1 brand are made by direct and independent sales forces that have responsibility for national and other accounts. As the vehicle
service and repair sector consolidates (with more business conducted by national chains and franchised service centers), the company believes these larger organizations can be serviced most effectively by sales people who can demonstrate and sell
the full line of equipment and diagnostic products and services. Snap-on also sells these products and services directly to OEMs and their franchised dealers.

Snap-on brand tools and equipment are marketed to industrial and governmental customers in the United States through both industrial sales representatives, who are employees, and independent industrial
distributors. In most markets outside the United States, industrial sales are conducted through independent distributors. The sales representatives focus on industrial customers whose main purchase criteria are quality and service. At the end of
2009, Snap-on had industrial sales representatives in the United States (including Puerto Rico), Australia, Canada, Japan, Mexico and some European, Asian, Latin American and Middle Eastern countries, with the United States representing the majority
of Snap-on’s total industrial sales.

The company also sells automotive, power equipment and power
sports software solutions, both domestically and internationally, through an internal sales force. Products and services are marketed to two targeted groups: OEMs and individual dealerships. To effectively reach the large OEMs in the
automotive segment, such as General Motors Company, Daimler AG, Ford Motor Company, New Chrysler Group LLC, and Toyota Motor Corporation, the company has deployed a team of business development professionals in the world’s principal
automotive centers in the United States, the United Kingdom, Germany, Italy, France, Spain and Japan. In the United States and Canada, automotive products and services are sold directly to individual dealerships using an experienced
sales force. In reaching customers such as John Deere (Deere & Company), JC Bamford Excavators Ltd. (JCB) and Yamaha Corporation of America (Yamaha) in the power equipment and power sports segments, teams are also positioned to
support the 90+ brands that Snap-on distributes to globally. Business management solutions are sold directly to the automotive OEMs in the United States and throughout Europe, including the United Kingdom.

Distributors

Sales of certain tools and equipment are made through independent distributors who purchase the items from Snap-on and resell them to end users. Hand tools under the BAHCO, Fish and Hook, and Lindström brands and trade names, for
example, are sold through distributors in Europe, North and South America, Asia and certain other parts of the world. Wheel service and other vehicle service equipment are sold through distributors primarily under brands including Hofmann, John
Bean, Cartec and Blackhawk. Diagnostics and equipment are marketed through distributors in South America and Asia, and through both a direct sales force and distributors in Europe under the Snap-on, Sun and BAHCO brands.

E-commerce

Snap-on’s e-commerce development initiatives allow Snap-on to combine the capabilities of the internet with Snap-on’s existing brand sales and distribution strengths to reach new and under-served customer segments. Snap-on offers
current and prospective customers online, around-the-clock access to purchase products through its public internet web site atwww.snapon.com. The site features an online catalog containing nearly 14,000 products, including Snap-on hand
tools, power tools, tool storage units and diagnostic equipment available to consumers and professionals in the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada and Australia. At the end of 2009, Snap-on had more than 600,000 registered users, including
approximately 43,000 industrial accounts. E-commerce and certain other system enhancement initiatives are designed to improve productivity and further leverage the one-on-one relationships and service Snap-on has with its current and prospective
customers. Through business-to-business and business-to-consumer capabilities, Snap-on and its franchisees are enhancing communications with customers on a real-time, 24-hour, 7-day a week basis.







2009 ANNUAL REPORT9










Competition

Snap-on competes on the basis of its product quality and
performance, product line breadth and depth, service, brand awareness and imagery, and technological innovation. While no single company competes with Snap-on across all of its product lines and distribution channels, various companies compete in
one or more product categories and/or distribution channels.

Raw Materials and Purchased Product

Snap-on’s supply of raw materials and purchased components are generally and readily available from numerous suppliers. Snap-on
believes it has secured an ample supply of both bar and coil steel for the near future to ensure stable supply to meet material demands. The company does not anticipate experiencing any significant steel pricing or availability issues in 2010.

Patents, Trademarks and Other Intellectual Property

Snap-on vigorously pursues and relies on patent protection to protect its intellectual property and its position in its markets. At 2009 year end, Snap-on and its subsidiaries held
over 740 active and pending patents in the United States and over 1,330 active and pending patents outside of the United States. Sales relating to any single patent did not represent a material portion of Snap-on’s revenues in the last three
years.

Examples of products that have features or designs that benefit from patent protection include wheel alignment
systems, wheel balancers, tire changers, lifts, test lanes, sealed ratchets, electronic torque instruments, ratcheting screwdrivers, emissions-sensing devices and diagnostic equipment.

Much of the technology used in the manufacture of vehicle service tools and equipment is in the public domain. Snap-on relies primarily on trade secret protection to protect
proprietary processes used in manufacturing. Methods and processes are patented when appropriate. Copyright protection is also utilized when appropriate.

Trademarks used by Snap-on are of continuing importance to Snap-on in the marketplace. Trademarks have been registered in the United States and more than 100 other countries, and additional applications
for trademark registrations are pending. Snap-on vigorously polices proper use of its trademarks. Snap-on’s right to manufacture and sell certain products is dependent upon licenses from others; however, these products under license do not
represent a material portion of Snap-on’s net sales.







10SNAP-ON INCORPORATED










Domain names have become a valuable corporate asset for companies around the world, including Snap-on. Domain names often contain a trademark or service mark or even a corporate name and are often
considered intellectual property. The recognition and value of the Snap-on name, trademark and domain name are core strengths of the company.

Snap-on is selectively and strategically licensing the Snap-on brand to carefully selected manufacturing and distribution companies for items such as apparel, work boots, lighting and a variety of other
goods, in order to further build equity and market presence for the company’s strongest brand.

Environment

Snap-on is subject to various environmental laws, ordinances, regulations, and other requirements of government authorities
in the United States and other nations. At Snap-on, these environmental liabilities are managed through the Snap-on Environmental, Hygiene and Safety Management System (“EH & SMS”), which is applied worldwide. The system is based
upon continual improvement and is certified to ISO 14001:2004 and OHSAS 18001:2007, verified through Det Norske Veritas (DNV) Certification, Inc.

Snap-on believes that it complies with applicable environmental control requirements in its operations. Expenditures on environmental matters through EH & SMS have not had, and Snap-on does not
for the foreseeable future expect them to have, a material effect upon Snap-on’s capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position.

Employees

At the end of January 2010, Snap-on employed approximately
11,000 people as compared to approximately 11,500 people at the end of January 2009.

Approximately 2,650 employees, or 24%,
of Snap-on’s worldwide workforce, are represented by unions and/or covered under collective bargaining agreements. Approximately 1,100 employees are covered under agreements expiring in 2010. In recent years, Snap-on has not experienced any
significant work slow-downs, stoppages or other labor disruptions.

The number of covered union employees whose contracts
expire within the next five years approximates 1,100 employees in 2010; 700 employees in 2011; and 175 employees in 2012; there are no contracts currently scheduled to expire in 2013. There are approximately 200 employees whose contract is scheduled
to expire in 2014.

There can be no assurance that future contracts with Snap-on’s unions will be renegotiated upon terms
acceptable to Snap-on.

Working Capital

Most of Snap-on’s businesses are not seasonal and their inventory needs are relatively constant. As a result of the termination of the joint venture with CIT on July 16, 2009, the company used
its working capital in 2009 to fund, in part, the growth of the on-book receivables originated by SOC. Snap-on did not have a significant backlog of orders at 2009 year end.

Snap-on’s liquidity and capital resources and use of working capital are discussed herein in “Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations.”

At 2009 year end, neither Snap-on nor any of its segments depend on any single customer,
small group of customers or government for any material part of its revenues; prior to July 16, 2009, Snap-on’s Financial Services segment depended on CIT for more than 10% of its revenues.

