Item 1: Business

Snap-on was incorporated under the laws of the state of Wisconsin in 1920 and reincorporated under the laws of the state of Delaware in
1930. Snap-on is a leading global innovator, manufacturer and marketer of tools, equipment, diagnostics, repair information and systems solutions for professional users performing critical tasks. Products and services include hand and power tools,
tool storage, diagnostics software, information and management systems, shop equipment and other solutions for vehicle dealerships and repair centers, as well as for customers in industries, including aviation and aerospace, agriculture,
construction, government and military, mining, natural resources, power generation and technical education.Snap-onalso derives income from various financing programs designed to facilitate the sales of its
products.

Snap-on markets its products and brands through multiple sales distribution channels in more than 130 countries.Snap-on’slargest geographic markets include the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada, Germany, Australia, Japan, France, Italy, Sweden, Spain, China, Brazil, the Netherlands, Saudi Arabia, Mexico,
Argentina, Denmark, Norway, India, the Russian Federation, Finland and Indonesia. Snap-on reaches its customers through the company’s franchisee, company-direct, distributor and internet channels. Snap-on originated the mobile tool distribution
channel in the automotive repair market.

The company began with the development of the original Snap-on interchangeable
socket set in 1920 and subsequently pioneered mobile tool distribution in the automotive repair market, where fully stocked vans sell to professional vehicle technicians at their place of business. For many decades, the company was viewed primarily
as a hand tool company selling through vans to vehicle technicians. Today, Snap-on defines its value proposition more broadly, extending its reach “beyond the garage” to deliver a broad array of unique solutions that make work easier for
serious professionals performing critical tasks. Building upon capabilities already demonstrated in the automotive repair arena, the company’s “coherent growth” strategy focuses on developing and expanding its professional customer
base in adjacent markets, additional geographies and other areas, including in critical industries, where the cost and penalties for failure can be high. In addition to its coherent growth strategy, Snap-on is committed to its “Value Creation
Processes” – a set of strategic principles and processes designed to create value and employed in the areas of (i) safety; (ii) quality; (iii) customer connection; (iv) innovation; and (v) rapid continuous
improvement (“RCI”).

Snap-on’s primary customer segments include: (i) commercial and industrial
customers, including professionals in critical industries and emerging markets; (ii) professional vehicle repair technicians who purchase products through the company’s worldwide mobile tool distribution network; and (iii) other
professional customers related to vehicle repair, including owners and managers of independent and original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) dealership service and repair shops (“OEM dealerships”). Snap-on’s Financial Services
customer segment includes: (i) franchisees’ customers and Snap-on’s industrial and other customers who require financing for the purchase or lease of tools and diagnostics and equipment products on an extended-term payment plan; and
(ii) franchisees who require financing for business loans and vehicle leases.

Snap-on’s business segments are based
on the organization structure used by management for making operating and investment decisions and for assessing performance. Snap-on’s reportable business segments are: (i) the Commercial & Industrial Group; (ii) the Snap-on
Tools Group; (iii) the Repair Systems & Information Group; and (iv) Financial Services. The Commercial & Industrial Group consists of business operations serving a broad range of industrial and commercial customers
worldwide, primarily through direct and distributor channels. The Snap-on Tools Group consists of business operations primarily serving vehicle service and repair technicians through the company’s worldwide mobile tool distribution channel. The
Repair Systems & Information Group consists of business operations serving other professional vehicle repair customers worldwide, primarily owners and managers of independent repair shops and OEM dealerships, through direct and distributor
channels. Financial Services consists of the business operations of Snap-on Credit LLC (“SOC”), the company’s financial services business in the United States, and Snap-on’s other financial services subsidiaries in those
international markets where Snap-on has franchise operations. See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on business segments and foreign operations.

Snap-on evaluates the performance of its operating segments based on segment revenues, including both external and intersegment net sales, and segment operating earnings. Snap-on accounts for intersegment
sales and transfers based primarily on standard costs with reasonable mark-ups established between the segments. Identifiable assets by segment are those assets used in the respective reportable segment’s operations. Corporate assets consist of
cash and cash equivalents (excluding cash held at Financial Services), deferred income taxes and certain other assets. All significant intersegment amounts are eliminated to arrive at Snap-on’s consolidated financial results.

On May 28, 2014, Snap-on acquired substantially all of the assets of Pro-Cut International, Inc. (“Pro-Cut”) for a cash
purchase price of $41.3 million. Pro-Cut designs, manufactures and distributes on-car brake lathes, related equipment







4SNAP-ON INCORPORATED










and accessories used in brake servicing by automotive repair facilities. The acquisition of the Pro-Cut product line complemented and increased Snap-on’s existing undercar equipment product
offering, broadened its established capabilities in serving vehicle repair facilities and expanded the company’s presence with repair shop owners and managers. For segment reporting purposes, the results of operations and assets of Pro-Cut have
been included in the Repair Systems & Information Group since the date of acquisition. Pro forma financial information has not been presented as the net effects of thePro-Cutacquisition were neither
significant nor material to Snap-on’s results of operations or financial position.

On May 13, 2013, Snap-on
acquired Challenger Lifts, Inc. (“Challenger”) for a cash purchase price of $38.2 million. Challenger designs, manufactures and distributes a comprehensive line of vehicle lifts and accessories to a diverse customer base in the
automotive repair sector. The acquisition of the Challenger vehicle lift product line complemented and increased Snap-on’s existing undercar equipment product offering, broadened its established capabilities in serving vehicle repair
facilities and expanded the company’s presence with repair shop owners and managers. For segment reporting purposes, the results of operations and assets of Challenger have been included in the Repair Systems & Information Group
since the date of acquisition. Pro forma financial information has not been presented as the net effects of the Challenger acquisition were neither significant nor material to Snap-on’s results of operations or financial position.

Information Available on the Company’s Website

www.snapon.com

10-K,

www.snapon.com

www.sec.gov

www.snapon.com

Products and Services

Tools, Diagnostics and Repair Information, and Equipment

Snap-on offers a broad line of products and complementary services that are grouped into three product categories: (i) tools;
(ii) diagnostics and repair information; and (iii) equipment. Further product line information is not presented as it is not practicable to do so. The following table shows the consolidated net sales of these product categories for the
last three years:



Net Sales(Amounts in millions)201420132012Product Category:Tools$1,868.5$1,743.3$1,729.4Diagnostics and repair information689.5652.0619.8Equipment719.7661.2588.7$3,277.7$3,056.5$2,937.9

Thetoolsproduct category includes hand tools, power tools and tool storage products. Hand tools
include wrenches, sockets, ratchet wrenches, pliers, screwdrivers, punches and chisels, saws and cutting tools, pruning tools, torque measuring instruments and other similar products. Power tools include cordless (battery), pneumatic (air),
hydraulic and corded (electric) tools, such as impact wrenches, ratchets, chisels, drills, sanders, grinders, polishers and similar products. Tool storage includes tool chests, roll cabinets, tool control systems and other similar products. The
majority of products are manufactured by Snap-on and, in completing the product offering, other items are purchased from external manufacturers.







2014 ANNUAL REPORT5










Thediagnostics and repair informationproduct category includes handheld and
PC-based diagnostic products, service and repair information products, diagnostic software solutions, electronic parts catalogs, business management systems and services, point-of-sale systems, integrated systems for vehicle service shops, OEM
purchasing facilitation services, and warranty management systems and analytics to help OEM dealerships manage and track performance.

Theequipmentproduct category includes solutions for the diagnosis and service of vehicles and industrial equipment. Products include wheel alignment equipment, wheel balancers, tire changers,
vehicle lifts, test lane systems, collision repair equipment, air conditioning service equipment, brake service equipment, fluid exchange equipment, transmission troubleshooting equipment, safety testing equipment, battery chargers and hoists.

Snap-on supports the sale of its diagnostics and vehicle service shop equipment by offering training programs as well as
after-sales support for its customers, primarily focusing on the technologies and the application of specific products developed and marketed by Snap-on.

Products are marketed under a number of brand names and trademarks, many of which are well known in the vehicle service and industrial markets served. Some of the major trade names and trademarks and the
products and services with which they are associated include the following:





NamesProducts and Services



Snap-onHand tools, power tools, tool storage products (including tool control software and hardware), diagnostics, certain equipment and related accessories, mobile tool stores, websites,
electronic parts catalogs, warranty analytics solutions, business management systems and services, OEM specialty tools and equipment development and distribution, and OEM facilitation services



ATIAircraft hand tools and machine tools



BAHCOSaw blades, cutting tools, pruning tools, hand tools, power tools and tool storage



BlackhawkCollision repair equipment



Blue-PointHand tools, power tools, tool storage, diagnostics, certain equipment and related accessories



CartecSafety testing, brake testers, test lane equipment, dynamometers, suspension testers, emission testers and other equipment



CDITorque tools



ChallengerVehicle lifts



Fish and HookSaw blades, cutting tools, pruning tools, hand tools, power tools and tool storage



HofmannWheel balancers, vehicle lifts, tire changers, wheel aligners, brake testers and test lane equipment



IrimoSaw blades, cutting tools, hand tools, power tools and tool storage



John BeanWheel balancers, vehicle lifts, tire changers, wheel aligners, brake testers and test lane equipment



LindströmHand tools



Mitchell1Repair and service information, shop management systems and business services



NexiqDiagnostic tools, information and program distributions for fleet and heavy duty equipment



Pro-CutOn-car brake lathes, related equipment and accessories



SandflexHacksaw blades, band saws, saw blades, hole saws and reciprocating saw blades



ShopKeyRepair and service information, shop management systems and business services



SiouxPower tools



SunDiagnostic tools, wheel balancers, vehicle lifts, tire changers, wheel aligners, air conditioning products and emission testers



WilliamsHand tools, tool storage, certain equipment and related accessories









6SNAP-ON INCORPORATED










Financial Services

Snap-on also generates revenue from various financing programs that include: (i) installment sales and lease contracts arising from
franchisees’ customers and Snap-on’s industrial and other customers for the purchase or lease of tools, including tool storage, and diagnostic and equipment products on an extended-term payment plan; and (ii) business loans and
vehicle leases to franchisees. The decision to finance through Snap-on or another financing entity is solely at the customer’s election. When assessing customers for potential financing, Snap-on considers various factors including financial
condition, collateral, debt-servicing ability, past payment experience and credit bureau information.

United States

In the United States, Snap-on offers financing through SOC and provides financing for new contracts originated by SOC. Financing revenue
from contract originations owned by SOC is recognized by SOC over the life of the contracts, with interest computed on the average daily balances of the underlying contracts.

International

Snap-on also offers financing to its franchisees and
customer networks through its international finance subsidiaries located in Canada, the United Kingdom, Australia and New Zealand. Snap-on offers financing to its franchisees and customer networks in Ireland, the Netherlands and Germany through its
U.K. finance subsidiary. Snap-on offers financing to its franchisees and customer network in Puerto Rico through SOC. Snap-on’s international finance subsidiaries own and service the receivables originated through their financing programs.
Financing revenue from these contracts is recognized over the life of the contracts, with interest computed on the average daily balances of the underlying contracts.

Other

Franchise fee revenue, including nominal, non-refundable
initial and ongoing monthly fees (primarily for sales and business training, and marketing and product promotion programs), is recognized as the fees are earned. Franchise fee revenue totaled $12.1 million, $11.9 million and $9.9 million in fiscal
2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively.

Sales and Distribution

Snap-on markets and distributes its products and related services principally to professional tool and equipment users around the world. The two largest market sectors are the vehicle service and repair
sector and the industrial sector.

Vehicle Service and Repair Sector

The vehicle service and repair sector has three main customer groups: (i) professional technicians who purchase tools and diagnostic
and equipment products for themselves; (ii) other professional customers related to vehicle repair, including owners and managers of independent repair shops and OEM dealerships who purchase tools and diagnostic and equipment products for use
by multiple technicians within a service or repair facility; and (iii) OEMs.

Snap-on provides innovative tool, equipment
and business solutions, as well as technical sales support and training, designed to meet technicians’ evolving needs. Snap-on’s mobile tool distribution system offers technicians the convenience of purchasing quality tools at their place
of business with minimal disruption of their work routine.Snap-onalso provides owners and managers of repair shops, where technicians work, with tools, diagnostic equipment, and repair and service
information, including electronic parts catalogs and shop management products. Snap-on’s OEM facilitation business provides OEMs with products and services including tools, consulting and facilitation services, which include product
procurement, distribution and administrative support to customers for their dealership equipment programs.

The vehicle
service and repair sector is characterized by an increasing rate of technological change within motor vehicles, vehicle population growth and increasing vehicle life, and the resulting effects of these changes on the businesses of both our suppliers
and customers. Snap-on believes it is a meaningful participant in the vehicle service and repair market sector.

Industrial Sector

Snap-on markets its products and services globally to a broad cross-section of commercial and industrial customers,
including maintenance and repair operations; manufacturing and assembly facilities; various government agencies, facilities and operations, including military operations; vocational and technical schools; aviation and aerospace operations; OEM and
service and repair customers; oil and gas developers; mining operations; energy and power







2014 ANNUAL REPORT7










generation, equipment fabricators and operators; railroad manufacturing and maintenance; customers in agriculture; infrastructure construction companies; and other customers that require
instrumentation, service tools and/or equipment for their product and business needs.

The industrial sector for Snap-on
focuses on providing value-added products and services to an increasingly expanding global base of customers in critical industries, particularly those in the market segments of natural resources, aerospace, government and technical education.
Through its experienced and dispersed sales organization, industrial “solutioneers” develop unique and highly valued productivity solutions for customers worldwide that leverage Snap-on’s product, service and development capabilities.

The industrial sector is characterized by a highly competitive, cost-conscious environment, and a trend toward customers
making many of their tool and equipment purchases through one integrated supplier. Snap-on believes it is a meaningful participant in the industrial tools and equipment market sector.

Distribution Channels

Snap-on serves customers primarily through the
following channels of distribution: (i) the mobile van channel; (ii) company direct sales; (iii) distributors; and (iv) e-commerce. The following discussion summarizes Snap-on’s general approach for each channel, and is not
intended to be all-inclusive.

Mobile Van Channel

In the United States, a significant portion of sales to the vehicle service and repair sector is conducted throughSnap-on’smobile franchise van channel.
Snap-on’s franchisees primarily serve vehicle repair technicians and vehicle service shop owners, generally providing weekly contact at the customer’s place of business. Franchisees’ sales are concentrated in hand and power tools,
tool storage products, shop equipment, and diagnostic and repair information products, which can easily be transported in a van and demonstrated during a brief sales call. Franchisees purchaseSnap-on’sproducts at a discount from suggested list prices and resell them at prices established by the franchisee. U.S. franchisees are provided a list of calls that serves as the basis of the franchisee’s sales route.

Snap-onalso provides certain franchisees the opportunity to add vans to their franchise or to
add a limited number of additional franchises. Snap-on charges nominal initial and ongoing monthly franchise fees. Since 1991, written franchise agreements have been entered into with all new U.S. franchisees.

Snap-on previously offered an option termed the “Gateway Franchise Program” to certain potential U.S. franchisees,
including those that did not meet the standard franchise qualification requirements. Gateway Franchise Program participants had less upfront investment and were provided an initial base level of consigned inventory fromSnap-onto assist them in gaining experience and building equity toward the future purchase of a standard franchise. Snap-on ceased offering new Gateway franchises in February 2013 and
anticipates not having any remaining Gateway franchises by the end of February 2015. As of 2014 year end, five of Snap-on’s U.S. franchised routes were operated as Gateway franchises.

Snap-onalso has a company-owned van program in the United States that is designed to:
(i) provide another pool of potential franchisees and field organization personnel; (ii) service customers in select new and/or open routes not currently serviced by franchisees; and (iii) allowSnap-onto pilot new sales and promotional ideas prior to introducing them to franchisees. As of 2014 year end, company-owned vans comprised approximately 5% of the total U.S. van population; Snap-on
may elect to increase or reduce the number of company-owned vans in the future.

In addition to its mobile van channel in the
United States, Snap-on has replicated its U.S. franchise distribution model in certain other countries including Australia, Canada, Germany, Japan, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, South Africa, New Zealand, Belgium and Ireland. In many of these
markets, as in the United States, purchase decisions are generally made or influenced by professional vehicle service technicians as well as repair shop owners and managers. As of 2014 year end, Snap-on’s worldwide mobile van count was
approximately 4,800 vans, including approximately 3,500 vans in the United States.

Through SOC, financing is available to
U.S. franchisees, including financing for van leases, working capital loans and loans to help enable new franchisees to fund the purchase of the franchise. In many international markets,Snap-onoffers a
variety of financing options to its franchisees and/or customer networks through its international finance subsidiaries. The decision to finance throughSnap-onor another financing entity is solely at
the customer’s election.







8SNAP-ON INCORPORATED










Snap-onsupports its franchisees with a field
organization of regional offices, franchise performance teams, Diagnostic Sales Developers (“DSDs”), customer care centers and distribution centers.Snap-onalso provides sales and business training,
and marketing and product promotion programs, as well as customer and franchisee financing programs through SOC and the company’s international finance subsidiaries, all of which are designed to strengthen franchisee sales. In North America,
the United States National Franchise Advisory Council and the Canadian National Franchise Advisory Council, both of which are composed primarily of franchisees that are elected by franchisees, assistSnap-onin identifying and implementing enhancements to the franchise program.

In the United States, franchisees work closely with
DSDs. The DSDs train franchisees on the sale of higher-price-point diagnostics and demonstrate and sell vehicle service shop management and information systems. DSDs work independently and with franchisees to identify and generate sales among
vehicle service technicians and repair shop owners and managers. DSDs areSnap-onemployees who are compensated through a combination of base salary and commission; a franchisee receives a brokerage fee from
certain sales made by the DSDs to the franchisee’s customers. Most products sold through franchisees and DSDs are sold under theSnap-on,Blue-Point and ShopKey brand names.

Company Direct Sales

A
significant proportion of shop equipment sales in North America under the John Bean, Hofmann, Blackhawk, Challenger and Pro-Cut brands, diagnostic products under theSnap-onbrand and information products
under the Mitchell1 brand are made by direct and independent sales forces that have responsibility for national and other accounts. As the vehicle service and repair sector consolidates (with more business conducted by national chains and
franchised service centers),Snap-onbelieves these larger organizations can be serviced most effectively by sales people who can demonstrate and sell the full line of diagnostic and equipment products andservices. Snap-onalso sells these products and services directly to OEMs and their franchised dealers.

Snap-onbrand tools and equipment are marketed to industrial and governmental customers in the United States through both industrial sales representatives, who are
employees, and independent industrial distributors. Outside of the United States, industrial sales are also conducted through other independent distributors. Sales representatives focus on industrial customers whose main purchase criteria are
quality and integrated solutions. As of 2014 year end, Snap-on had industrial sales representatives in the United States (including Puerto Rico), Australia, Canada, Japan, Mexico and various European, Asian, Latin American, Middle Eastern and
African countries, with the United States representing the majority ofSnap-on’stotal industrial sales.

Snap-on also sells software, services and solutions to the automotive, commercial, agriculture, power equipment and power sports segments. Products and services are marketed to targeted groups, including
OEMs and their dealerships, fleets, and individual repair shops. To effectively reach OEMs, which frequently have a multi-national presence, Snap-on has deployed focused business teams globally.

Distributors

Sales of
certain tools and equipment are made through independent distributors who purchase the items fromSnap-onand resell them to end users. Hand tools under the BAHCO, Fish and Hook, Lindström and Williams
brands and trade names, for example, are sold through distributors in Europe, North and South America, Asia and certain other parts of the world. Wheel service and other vehicle service equipment are sold through distributors primarily under brands
including Hofmann, John Bean, Challenger, Pro-Cut, Cartec and Blackhawk. Diagnostic and equipment products are marketed through distributors in South America and Asia, and through both a direct sales force and distributors in Europe under theSnap-on,Sun, BAHCO and Blue-Point brands.

E-commerce

Snap-on’s e-commerce development initiatives allowSnap-onto combine the capabilities of
the internet withSnap-on’sexisting brand sales and distribution strengths to reach new and under-served customer segments.Snap-onoffers current and prospective
customers online, around-the-clock access to research and purchase products through its public internet website atwww.snapon.com. The site features an online catalog ofSnap-onhand tools, power tools,
tool storage units and diagnostic equipment available to customers in the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada and Australia. E-commerce and certain other system enhancement initiatives are designed to improve productivity and further leverage
the one-on-one relationships and serviceSnap-onhas with its current and prospective customers. Sales through the company’s e-commerce distribution channel were not significant in any of the last three
years.







2014 ANNUAL REPORT9










Competition

Snap-oncompetes on the basis of its product quality and performance, product line breadth and depth, service, brand awareness and imagery, technological innovation
and availability of financing (through SOC or its international finance subsidiaries). While Snap-on does not believe that any single company competes with it across all of its product lines and distribution channels, various companies compete in
one or more product categories and/or distribution channels.

Snap-onbelieves it is a
leading manufacturer and distributor of professional tools, tool storage, diagnostic and equipment products, and repair software and solutions, offering a broad line of these products to both vehicle service and industrial marketplaces. Various
competitors target and sell to professional technicians in the vehicle service and repair sector through the mobile tool distribution channel;Snap-onalso competes with companies that sell tools and equipment
to vehicle service and repair technicians through retail stores and online, vehicle parts supply outlets, and tool supply warehouses/distributorships. Within the power tools category and the industrial sector, Snap-on has various other competitors,
including companies with offerings that overlap with other areas discussed herein. Major competitors selling diagnostics, shop equipment and information to vehicle dealerships and independent repair shops include OEMs and their proprietary
electronic parts catalogs, as well as diagnostics and information systems, and other companies that offer products serving this sector.

Raw Materials and Purchased Product

Snap-on’s supply of raw materials and purchased components are generally and readily available from numerous suppliers. Snap-on believes it has secured an ample supply of both bar and coil steel for
the near future to ensure stable supply to meet material demands. The company does not currently anticipate experiencing any significant impact in 2015 from steel pricing or availability issues.

Patents, Trademarks and Other Intellectual Property

Snap-onvigorously pursues and relies on patent protection to protect its intellectual property and position in its markets. As of 2014 year end,Snap-onand its subsidiaries held approximately 700 active and pending patents in the United States and approximately 1,500 active and pending patents outside of the United States. Sales relating to any single
patent did not represent a material portion ofSnap-on’srevenues in any of the last three years.

Examples of products that have features or designs that benefit from patent protection include wheel alignment systems, wheel balancers, tire changers, vehicle lifts, test lanes, brake lathes, sealed
ratchets, electronic torque instruments, ratcheting screwdrivers, emissions-sensing devices and diagnostic equipment.

Much of
the technology used in the manufacture of vehicle service tools and equipment is in the public domain.Snap-onrelies primarily on trade secret protection to protect proprietary processes used in
manufacturing. Methods and processes are patented when appropriate. Copyright protection is also utilized when appropriate.

Trademarks used bySnap-onare of continuing importance toSnap-onin the marketplace. Trademarks have been registered in the United States and more than 120 other countries, and additional applications for trademark registrations are pending.Snap-onvigorously polices proper use of its trademarks.Snap-on’sright to manufacture and sell certain products is dependent upon licenses from others; however, these
products under license do not represent a material portion ofSnap-on’snet sales.

Domain names have become a valuable corporate asset for companies around the world, includingSnap-on.Domain names often contain a trademark or service mark or even a corporate name and are often considered intellectual property. The recognition and value of theSnap-onname, trademark and domain name are core strengths of the company.

Snap-onstrategically licenses theSnap-onbrand to carefully selected manufacturing and distribution companies for items such as apparel, work boots, lighting and a variety
of other goods, in order to further build equity and market presence for the company’s strongest brand.







10SNAP-ON INCORPORATED










Environmental

Snap-onis subject to various environmental laws, ordinances, regulations, and other requirements of government authorities in the United States and other nations.
AtSnap-on,these environmental liabilities are managed through theSnap-onEnvironmental, Health and Safety Management System (“EH & SMS”), which is
applied worldwide. The system is based upon continual improvement and is certified to ISO 14001:2004 and OHSAS 18001:2007, verified through Det Norske Veritas (DNV) Certification, Inc.

Snap-onbelieves that it complies with applicable environmental control requirements in its
operations. Expenditures on environmental matters through EH & SMS have not had, andSnap-ondoes not for the foreseeable future expect them to have, a material effect uponSnap-on’scapital expenditures, earnings or competitive position.

Employees

Snap-on employed approximately 11,400 people at the end of January 2015; Snap-on employed approximately 11,300 people at the end of
January 2014.

Approximately 2,600 employees, or 23% of Snap-on’s worldwide workforce, are represented by unions and/or
covered under collective bargaining agreements. The number of covered union employees whose contracts expire over the next five years approximates 1,250 employees in 2015; 400 employees in 2016; and 600 employees in 2017; there are no contracts
currently scheduled to expire in 2018 or 2019. In recent years, Snap-on has not experienced any significant work slowdowns, stoppages or other labor disruptions.

There can be no assurance that these and other future contracts withSnap-on’sunions will be renegotiated upon terms acceptable toSnap-on.

Working Capital

Most ofSnap-on’sbusinesses are not seasonal and their inventory needs are relatively constant. Snap-on did not have a significant backlog of orders at 2014
year end. In recent years, Snap-on has been using its working capital to fund, in part, the continued growth of the company’s financial services portfolio.

Snap-on’s liquidity and capital resources and use of working capital are discussed herein in “Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations.”

As of 2014 year end, neitherSnap-onnor any of its segments
depend on any single customer, small group of customers or government for any material part of its revenues.

