Item 1A.Risk
    Factors.



There are risks associated with an investment in our securities.
    The following risk factors should be read carefully in
    connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking
    statements contained in this Annual Report onForm 10-K.Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our
    business, our prospects, our operating results, our financial
    condition, the trading prices of our securities and the actual
    outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are
    made in this report. Additional risks that we do not yet know of
    or that we currently think are immaterial may also affect our
    business operations.



Risks
    Related to Our Business



The loss
    of the services of Mr. Ralph Lauren or other key personnel
    could have a material adverse effect on our business.



Mr. Ralph Lauren’s leadership in the design, marketing
    and operational areas of our business has been a critical
    element of our success since the inception of our Company. The
    death or disability of Mr. Lauren or other extended or
    permanent loss of his services, or any negative market or
    industry perception with respect to him or arising from his
    loss, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our
    other executive officers and other members of senior management
    have substantial experience and expertise in our business and
    have made significant contributions to our growth and success.
    The unexpected loss of services of one or more of these
    individuals could also have a material adverse effect on us. We
    are not protected by a material amount of key-man or similar
    life insurance covering Mr. Lauren, our other executive
    officers and certain other members of senior management. We have
    entered into employment agreements with Mr. Lauren and our
    other executive officers, but the noncompete period with respect
    to Mr. Lauren and certain other executive officers could,
    in some circumstances in the event of their termination of
    employment with the Company, end prior to the employment term
    set forth in their employment agreements.



Our
    business could be negatively impacted by any financial
    instability of our customers.



We sell our wholesale merchandise primarily to major department
    stores across the U.S., Europe and Asia and extend credit based
    on an evaluation of each customer’s financial condition,
    usually without requiring collateral.





However, the financial difficulties of a customer could cause us
    to curtail or eliminate business with that customer. We may also
    assume more credit risk relating to that customer’s
    receivables. In the aggregate, our five largest department-store
    customers constituted approximately 30% of our gross trade
    accounts receivable outstanding as of April 3, 2010 and
    contributed approximately 45% of all wholesale revenues for
    Fiscal 2010. Our inability to collect on our trade accounts
    receivable from any one of these customers could have a material
    adverse effect on our business, financial condition or
    liquidity. See Item 1 —“Business — Wholesale Credit Control.”



The
    economic recession could have a negative impact on our major
    customers and suppliers which in turn could materially adversely
    affect our results of operations and liquidity.



The economic recession is having a significant negative impact
    on businesses around the world. Although we believe that our
    cash provided by operations and available borrowing capacity
    under our revolving credit facility will provide us with
    sufficient liquidity through the current recession, the impact
    of this recession on our major customers and suppliers cannot be
    predicted and may be quite severe. The inability of major
    manufacturers to ship our products could impair our ability to
    meet the delivery date requirements of our customers. A
    disruption in the ability of our significant customers to access
    liquidity could cause serious disruptions or an overall
    deterioration of their businesses which could lead to a
    significant reduction in their future orders of our products and
    the inability or failure on their part to meet their payment
    obligations to us, any of which could have a material adverse
    effect on our results of operations and liquidity.



The
    Company has an exclusive relationship with certain customers for
    some of its products. The loss or significant decline in
    business of any of these customers could negatively impact our
    business.



The Company has exclusive relationships with certain customers
    for distribution of some of its products, including itsAmerican LivingandChapsproducts. Our
    arrangements with JCPenney and Kohl’s for theAmerican
    LivingandChapsproducts, respectively, make us
    dependent on the financial and operational health of those
    companies. As a result, a decrease in sales volume, as
    experienced in Fiscal 2010 due to a contraction in consumer
    spending associated with the weakened global economic
    environment, or the loss of the business of these customers, may
    negatively impact the Company’s business.



We cannot
    assure the successful implementation of our growth
    strategy.



As part of our growth strategy, we seek to extend our brands,
    expand our geographic coverage and increase direct management of
    our brands by opening more of our own stores, strategically
    acquiring or integrating select businesses previously held by
    our licensees and enhancing our operations. Implementation of
    our strategy involves the continued expansion of our business in
    Europe, Asia and other international areas. As discussed in
    Item 1 —“Business — Recent
    Developments,”on December 31, 2009, we acquired
    our previously licensed Polo-branded apparel business in the
    Asia-Pacific region (excluding Japan). In Fiscal 2009, we
    acquired our previously licensed childrenswear and golf apparel
    businesses in Japan. In Fiscal 2008, we acquired a controlling
    interest in Impact 21 Co., Ltd. and the remaining 50% interest
    in Polo Ralph Lauren Japan Corporation, as well as our
    previously licensed belts and leather goods business.



We may have difficulty integrating acquired businesses into our
    operations, hiring and retaining qualified key employees, or
    otherwise successfully managing such expansion. Furthermore, we
    may not be able to successfully integrate the business of any
    licensee that we acquire into our own business or achieve any
    expected cost savings or synergies from such integration.



Implementation of our growth strategy involves the continuation
    and expansion of our retail distribution network, both in the
    U.S. and abroad, which are subject to many factors beyond
    our control. We may not be able to procure, purchase or lease
    desirable free-standing or department store locations, or renew
    and maintain existing free-standing store leases and department
    store locations on acceptable terms, or secure suitable
    replacement locations. The lease negotiation as well as the
    number and timing of new stores actually opened during any given
    period, and their associated contribution to net income for the
    period, depends on a number of factors including, but not
    limited, to: (i) the availability of suitable financing to
    us and our landlords; (ii) the timing of the delivery of
    the leased premises to us from our landlords in order to
    commence build-out construction activities; (iii) our
    ability and





our landlords’ ability to obtain all necessary governmental
    licenses and permits to construct and operate our stores on a
    timely basis; (iv) our ability to manage the construction
    and development costs of new stores; (v) the rectification
    of any unforeseen engineering or environmental problems with the
    leased premises; (vi) adverse weather during the
    construction period; and (vii) the hiring and training of
    qualified operating personnel in the local market. While we
    continue to explore new markets and are always evaluating new
    potential locations, any of the above factors could have an
    adverse impact on our financial operations.



In Europe, we lack the large wholesale distribution channels we
    have in the U.S., and we may have difficulty developing
    successful distribution strategies and alliances in each of the
    major European countries. In Asia (including Japan), our primary
    mode of distribution is via a network of shops located within
    leading department stores. We may have difficulty in
    successfully retaining this network, and expanding into
    alternate distribution channels. Additionally, macroeconomic
    trends may not be favorable, and could limit our ability to
    implement our growth strategies in select geographies where we
    have foreign operations, such as Europe and Asia.



Our
    business could suffer as a result of consolidations,
    liquidations, restructurings and other ownership changes in the
    retail industry.



Several of our department store customers, including some under
    common ownership, account for significant portions of our
    wholesale net sales. A substantial portion of sales of our
    licensed products by our domestic licensing partners, including
    sales made by our sales force of Ralph Lauren Home products, are
    also made to our largest department store customers. In the
    aggregate, our five largest department-store customers accounted
    for approximately 45% of our wholesale net sales during Fiscal
    2010. There can be no assurance that consolidations,
    restructurings, reorganizations or other ownership changes in
    the department store sector will not have a material adverse
    effect on our wholesale business.



We typically do not enter into long-term agreements with our
    customers. Instead, we enter into a number of purchase order
    commitments with our customers for each of our lines every
    season. A decision by the controlling owner of a group of stores
    or any other significant customer, whether motivated by
    competitive conditions, financial difficulties or otherwise, to
    decrease or eliminate the amount of merchandise purchased from
    us or our licensing partners; or to change their manner of doing
    business with us or our licensing partners or their new
    strategic and operational initiatives, including their continued
    focus on further development of their “private label”
    initiatives, could have a material adverse effect on our
    business or financial condition.



Our
    profitability may decline as a result of increasing pressure on
    margins.



The apparel industry is subject to significant pricing pressure
    caused by many factors, including intense competition,
    consolidation in the retail industry, pressure from retailers to
    reduce the costs of products and changes in consumer spending
    patterns. These factors may cause us to reduce our sales prices
    to retailers and consumers, which could cause our gross margin
    to decline if we are unable to appropriately manage inventory
    levelsand/orotherwise offset price reductions with comparable reductions in
    our operating costs. If our sales prices decline and we fail to
    sufficiently reduce our product costs or operating expenses, our
    profitability will decline. This could have a material adverse
    effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial
    condition.



Certain
    legal proceedings and regulatory matters could adversely impact
    our results of operations.



We are involved in certain legal proceedings and are subject
    from time to time to various claims involving alleged breach of
    contract claims, intellectual property and other related claims,
    credit card fraud, security breaches in certain of our retail
    store information systems, employment issues, consumer matters
    and other litigations. Certain of these lawsuits and claims, if
    decided adversely to us or settled by us, could result in
    material liability to the Company or have a negative impact on
    the Company’s reputation or relations with its employees,
    customers, licensees or other third parties. In addition,
    regardless of the outcome of any litigation or regulatory
    proceedings, such proceedings could result in substantial costs
    and may require that the Company devotes substantial time and
    resources to defend itself. Further, changes in governmental
    regulations both in the U.S. and in other countries where
    we conduct business operations could have an adverse impact on
    our results of operations. See Item 3 —“Legal Proceedings”for further discussion of
    the Company’s legal matters.





Our
    business could suffer if our computer systems and websites are
    disrupted or cease to operate effectively.



The Company relies heavily on its computer systems to record and
    process transactions and manage and operate our business. We
    also utilize an automated replenishment system to facilitate the
    processing of basic replenishment orders from our wholesale
    customers, the movement of goods through distribution channels,
    and the collection of information for planning and forecasting.
    In addition, we havee-commerceand other Internet websites in the U.S. Given the
    complexity of our business and the significant number of
    transactions that we engage in on an annual basis, it is
    imperative that we maintain constant operation of our computer
    hardware and software systems. Despite our preventative efforts,
    our systems are vulnerable from time to time to damage or
    interruption from, among other things, security breaches,
    computer viruses or power outages.



A privacy
    breach could damage the Company’s reputation and its
    relationships with its customers, expose the Company to
    litigation risk and adversely affect the Company’s
    business.



As part of the Company’s normal course of business, the
    Company collects, processes and retains sensitive and
    confidential customer information. Despite the security measures
    the Company has in place, the Company’s facilities and
    systems, and those of the Company’s third party service
    providers, may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of
    vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programmingand/orhuman
    errors, or other similar events. Any security breach involving
    the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of
    confidential information, whether by the Company or its vendors,
    could severely damage the Company’s reputation and its
    relationships with its customers, expose the Company to risks of
    litigation and liability and adversely affect the Company’s
    business.



Our
    business is subject to risks associated with importing
    products.



As of April 3, 2010, we source a significant portion of our
    products outside the U.S. through arrangements with over
    400 foreign vendors in various countries. In Fiscal 2010, over
    98%, by dollar value, of our products were produced outside the
    U.S., primarily in Asia, Europe and South America. Risks
    inherent in importing our products include:



•quotas imposed by bilateral textile agreements with China and
    non-WTO countries. These agreements limit the amount and type of
    goods that may be imported annually from these countries;•changes in social, political and economic conditions or
    terrorist acts that could result in the disruption of trade from
    the countries in which our manufacturers or suppliers are
    located;•the imposition of additional regulations relating to imports or
    exports;•the imposition of additional duties, taxes and other charges on
    imports or exports;•significant fluctuations of the cost of raw materials;•significant delays in the delivery of cargo due to security
    considerations;•the imposition of antidumping or countervailing duty proceedings
    resulting in the potential assessment of special antidumping or
    countervailing duties; and•the imposition of sanctions in the form of additional duties
    either by the U.S. or its trading partners to remedy
    perceived illegal actions by national governments.



Any one of these factors could have a material adverse effect on
    our financial condition and results of operations.





Our
    ability to conduct business in international markets may be
    affected by legal, regulatory, political and economic
    risks.



Our ability to capitalize on growth in new international markets
    and to maintain the current level of operations in our existing
    international markets is subject to risks associated with
    international operations. These include:



•the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws and
    regulations;•unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; and•new tariffs or other barriers in some international markets.



We are also subject to general political and economic risks in
    connection with our international operations, including:



•political instability and terrorist attacks;•changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; and•general economic fluctuations in specific countries or markets.



We cannot predict whether quotas, duties, taxes, or other
    similar restrictions will be imposed by the U.S., the European
    Union, Asia, or other countries upon the import or export of our
    products in the future, or what effect any of these actions
    would have on our business, financial condition or results of
    operations. Changes in regulatory, geopolitical, social or
    economic policies and other factors may have a material adverse
    effect on our business in the future or may require us to
    significantly modify our current business practices.



Our
    trademarks and other intellectual property rights may not be
    adequately protected outside the U.S.



and/or

“Business

Trademarks,”

“Legal Proceedings.”



Our
    business could suffer as a result of increases in the price of
    raw materials or a manufacturer’s inability to produce our
    goods on time and to our specifications.



We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and depend
    exclusively on independent third parties for the manufacture of
    all of our products. Our products are manufactured to our
    specifications primarily by international manufacturers. During
    Fiscal 2010, less than 2%, by dollar value, of our men’s
    and women’s products were manufactured in the U.S. and
    over 98%, by dollar value, of these products were manufactured
    in other countries. The inability of a manufacturer to ship
    orders of our products in a timely manner or to meet our quality
    standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements
    of our customers for those items, which could result in
    cancellation of orders, refusal to accept deliveries or a
    substantial reduction in purchase prices, any of which could
    have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and
    results of operations. Additionally, prices





of raw materials used to manufacture our products may fluctuate
    and increases in prices of such raw materials could have a
    material adverse effect on our cost of sales.



Our
    business could suffer if one of our manufacturers fails to use
    acceptable labor practices.



We require our licensing partners and independent manufacturers
    to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
    While our internal and vendor operating guidelines promote
    ethical business practices and our staff periodically visits and
    monitors the operations of our independent manufacturers, we do
    not control these manufacturers or their labor practices. The
    violation of labor or other laws by an independent manufacturer
    used by us or one of our licensing partners, or the divergence
    of an independent manufacturer’s or licensing
    partner’s labor practices from those generally accepted as
    ethical or appropriate in the U.S., could interrupt, or
    otherwise disrupt the shipment of finished products to us or
    damage our reputation. Any of these, in turn, could have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
    of operations.



Our
    business could suffer if we need to replace
    manufacturers.



We compete with other companies for the production capacity of
    our manufacturers and import quota capacity. Some of these
    competitors have greater financial and other resources than we
    have, and thus may have an advantage in the competition for
    production and import quota capacity. If we experience a
    significant increase in demand, or if an existing manufacturer
    of ours must be replaced, we may have to expand our third-party
    manufacturing capacity. We cannot guarantee that this additional
    capacity will be available when required on terms that are
    acceptable to us. See Item 1 —“Business—Sourcing, Production and Quality.”We enter into a number of purchase order commitments each
    season specifying a time for delivery, method of payment, design
    and quality specifications and other standard industry
    provisions, but do not have long-term contracts with any
    manufacturer. None of the manufacturers we use produce our
    products exclusively.



Our
    business is exposed to domestic and foreign currency
    fluctuations.



We generally purchase our products in U.S. dollars.
    However, we source most of our products overseas. As a result,
    the cost of these products may be affected by changes in the
    value of the relevant currencies. Changes in currency exchange
    rates may also affect the U.S. dollar value of the foreign
    currency denominated prices at which our international
    businesses sell products. Furthermore, our international sales
    and licensing revenue generally is derived from sales in foreign
    currencies. These foreign currencies include the Japanese Yen,
    the Euro and the British Pound Sterling, and this revenue could
    be materially affected by currency fluctuations. Although we
    hedge certain exposures to changes in foreign currency exchange
    rates arising in the ordinary course of business, we cannot
    assure that foreign currency fluctuations will not have a
    material adverse impact on our financial condition and results
    of operations. See Item 7 —“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations—Market
    Risk Management.”



We rely
    on our licensing partners to preserve the value of our
    licenses.



The risks associated with our own products also apply to our
    licensed products in addition to any number of possible risks
    specific to a licensing partner’s business, including, for
    example, risks associated with a particular licensing
    partner’s ability to:



•obtain capital;•manage its labor relations;•maintain relationships with its suppliers;•manage its credit and bankruptcy risks effectively; and•maintain relationships with its customers.



Although a number of our license agreements prohibit licensing
    partners from entering into licensing arrangements with our
    competitors, our licensing partners generally are not precluded
    from offering, under other brands, the types of products covered
    by their license agreements with us. A substantial portion of
    sales of our





products by our domestic licensing partners are also made to our
    largest customers. While we have significant control over our
    licensing partners’ products and advertising, we rely on
    our licensing partners for, among other things, operational and
    financial control over their businesses. Changes in management,
    reduced sales of licensed products, poor execution or financial
    difficulties with respect to any of our licensing partners could
    adversely affect our revenues, both directly from reduced
    licensing revenue received and indirectly from reduced sales of
    our other products. See Item 1 —“Business—Our Licensing
    Segment.”



Failure
    to maintain licensing partners could harm our
    business.



Although we believe in most circumstances we could replace
    existing licensing partners if necessary, our inability to do so
    for any period of time could adversely affect our revenues, both
    directly from reduced licensing revenue received and indirectly
    from reduced sales of our other products. See
    Item 1 —“Our Licensing Segment.”



The
    voting shares of the Company’s stock are concentrated in
    one majority stockholder.



As of April 3, 2010, Mr. Ralph Lauren, or entities
    controlled by the Lauren family, owned approximately 84% of the
    voting power of the outstanding common stock of the Company. As
    a result, Mr. Lauren has the ability to exercise
    significant control over our business, including, without
    limitation, (i) the election of the Company’s
    Class B common stock directors, voting separately as a
    class, and (ii) any action requiring the approval of our
    stockholders, including the adoption of amendments to our
    certificate of incorporation and the approval of mergers or
    sales of all or substantially all of our assets.



The
    trading prices of our securities periodically may rise or fall
    based on the accuracy of predictions of our earnings or other
    financial performance.



Our business planning process is designed to maximize our
    long-term strength, growth and profitability, not to achieve an
    earnings target in any particular fiscal quarter. We believe
    that this longer-term focus is in the best interests of the
    Company and our stockholders. At the same time, however, we
    recognize that from time to time it may be helpful to provide
    investors with guidance as to our quarterly and annual forecast
    of net sales and earnings. While we generally expect to provide
    updates to our guidance when we report our results each fiscal
    quarter, we assume no responsibility to update any of our
    forward-looking statements at such times or otherwise. If and
    when we announce actual results that differ from those that have
    been predicted by us, outside analysts or others, the market
    price of our securities could be affected. Investors who rely on
    the predictions when making investment decisions with respect to
    our securities do so at their own risk. We take no
    responsibility for any losses suffered as a result of such
    changes in the prices of our securities.



Risks
    Relating to the Industry in Which We Compete



The
    downturn in the global economy may continue to affect consumer
    purchases of discretionary items and luxury retail products,
    which could adversely affect our sales.



The industries in which we operate are cyclical. Many economic
    factors outside of our control affect the level of consumer
    spending in the apparel, cosmetic, fragrance, accessories and
    home products industries, including, among others:



•general business conditions;•economic downturns;•employment levels;•downturns in the stock market;•interest rates;•the housing market;•consumer debt levels;







•the availability of consumer credit;•increases in fuel prices;•taxation; and•consumer confidence in future economic conditions.



Consumer purchases of discretionary items and luxury retail
    products, including our products, may continue to decline during
    recessionary periods and at other times when disposable income
    is lower. A continuing downturn or an uncertain outlook in the
    economies in which we, or our licensing partners, sell our
    products may materially adversely affect our businesses and our
    revenues and profits. See Item 7 —“Overview—Our Objectives and
    Risks”for further discussion.



The domestic and international political situation also affects
    consumer confidence. The threat, outbreak or escalation of
    terrorism, military conflicts or other hostilities could lead to
    a decrease in consumer spending and may materially adversely
    affect our business, revenues and profits.



We face
    intense competition in the worldwide apparel industry.



We face a variety of intense competitive challenges from other
    domestic and foreign fashion-oriented apparel and casual apparel
    producers, some of which may be significantly larger and more
    diversified and have greater financial and marketing resources
    than we have. We compete with these companies primarily on the
    basis of:



•anticipating and responding to changing consumer demands in a
    timely manner;•maintaining favorable brand recognition, loyalty and reputation
    for quality;•developing innovative, high-quality products in sizes, colors
    and styles that appeal to consumers;•appropriately pricing products;•failure to anticipate and maintain proper inventory levels;•providing strong and effective marketing support;•creating an acceptable value proposition for retail customers;•ensuring product availability and optimizing supply chain
    efficiencies with manufacturers and retailers; and•obtaining sufficient retail floor space and effective
    presentation of our products at retail stores.



We also face increasing competition from companies selling
    apparel and home products through the Internet. Although we sell
    our products domestically through the Internet, increased
    competition in the worldwide apparel, accessories and home
    product industries from Internet-based competitors could reduce
    our sales, prices and margins and adversely affect our results
    of operations.



The
    success of our business depends on our ability to respond to
    constantly changing fashion trends and consumer
    demands.



Our success depends in large part on our ability to originate
    and define fashion product and home product trends, as well as
    to anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in a
    timely manner. Our products must appeal to a broad range of
    consumers worldwide whose preferences cannot be predicted with
    certainty and are subject to rapid change. We cannot assure that
    we will be able to continue to develop appealing styles or
    successfully meet constantly changing consumer demands in the
    future. In addition, we cannot assure that any new products or
    brands that we introduce will be successfully received by
    consumers. Any failure on our part to anticipate, identify and
    respond effectively to changing consumer demands and fashion
    trends could adversely affect retail and consumer acceptance of
    our products and leave us with a substantial amount of unsold
    inventory or missed opportunities. If that occurs, we may be
    forced to rely on markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of
    excess, slow-moving inventory, which may harm our business and
    impair the image of our brands. Conversely, if we underestimate
    consumer demand for our products or if manufacturers fail to
    supply quality products in a timely





manner, we may experience inventory shortages, which may result
    in unfilled orders, negatively impact customer relationships,
    diminish brand loyalty and result in lost revenues. See
    Item 1 —“Business — Sourcing,
    Production and Quality.”



