Item 1A.Risk
    Factors.



There are risks associated with an investment in our securities.
    The following risk factors should be read carefully in
    connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking
    statements contained in this Annual Report onForm 10-K.Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our
    business, our prospects, our results of operations, our
    financial condition, our liquidity, the trading prices of our
    securities, and the actual outcome of matters as to which
    forward-looking statements are made in this report. Additional
    risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are
    immaterial may also affect our business operations.



Risks
    Related to Our Business



The loss
    of the services of Mr. Ralph Lauren or other key personnel
    could have a material adverse effect on our business.



Mr. Ralph Lauren’s leadership in the design, marketing
    and operational areas of our business has been a critical
    element of our success since the inception of our Company. The
    death or disability of Mr. Lauren or other extended or
    permanent loss of his services, or any negative market or
    industry perception with respect to him or arising from his
    loss, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our
    other executive officers and other members of senior management
    have substantial experience and expertise in our business and
    have made significant contributions to our growth and success.
    The unexpected loss of services of one or more of these
    individuals could also have a material adverse effect on us. We
    are not protected by a material amount of key-man or similar
    life insurance covering Mr. Lauren, our other executive
    officers and certain other members of senior management. We have
    entered into employment agreements with Mr. Lauren and our
    other executive officers, but the noncompete period with respect
    to Mr. Lauren and certain other executive officers could,
    in some circumstances in the event of their termination of
    employment with our Company, end prior to the employment term
    set forth in their employment agreements.



Our
    business could be negatively impacted by any financial
    instability of our customers.



We sell our wholesale merchandise primarily to major department
    stores across the U.S., Europe and Asia and extend credit based
    on an evaluation of each customer’s financial condition,
    usually without requiring collateral. However, the financial
    difficulties of a customer could cause us to curtail or
    eliminate business with that customer. We may also assume more
    credit risk relating to that customer’s receivables. In the
    aggregate, our four largest wholesale customers constituted
    approximately 30% of our gross trade accounts receivable
    outstanding as of April 2, 2011 and contributed
    approximately 40% of all wholesale revenues for Fiscal 2011. Our
    inability to collect on our trade accounts receivable from any
    one of these customers could have a material adverse effect on
    our business, financial condition or liquidity. See
    Item 1 —“Business — Wholesale
    Credit Control.”



Uncertain
    economic conditions could have a negative impact on our major
    customers and suppliers which in turn could materially adversely
    affect our operating results and liquidity.



The uncertain state of the global economy is having a
    significant negative impact on businesses around the world.
    Although we believe that our cash provided by operations and
    available borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility
    will provide us with sufficient liquidity through the current
    economic uncertainty, the impact of economic conditions on our
    major customers and suppliers cannot be predicted and may be
    quite severe. The inability of major manufacturers to ship our
    products could impair our ability to meet the delivery date
    requirements of our customers. A disruption in the ability of
    our significant customers to access liquidity could cause
    serious disruptions or an overall deterioration of their
    businesses which could lead to a significant reduction in their
    future orders of our products and the inability or failure on
    their part to meet their payment obligations to us, any of which
    could have a material adverse effect on our operating results
    and liquidity.



We cannot
    assure the successful implementation of our growth
    strategy.



As part of our growth strategy, we seek to extend our brands,
    expand our geographic coverage and increase direct management of
    our brands by opening more of our own stores, strategically
    acquiring or integrating select businesses previously held by
    our licensees and enhancing our operations. Implementation of
    our strategy involves





the continued expansion of our business in Europe, Asia and
    other international areas. As discussed in
    Item 1 —“Business — Recent
    Developments,”on January 1, 2011, we acquired our
    previously licensed Polo-branded apparel and accessories
    business in South Korea. In Fiscal 2010, we acquired our
    previously licensed Polo-branded apparel business in the
    Asia-Pacific region (excluding Japan and South Korea). In Fiscal
    2009, we acquired our previously licensed childrenswear and golf
    apparel businesses in Japan.



We may have difficulty integrating acquired businesses into our
    operations, hiring and retaining qualified key employees, or
    otherwise successfully managing such expansion. Furthermore, we
    may not be able to successfully integrate the business of any
    licensee that we acquire into our own business or achieve any
    expected cost savings or synergies from such integration.





In Europe, we lack the large wholesale distribution channels we
    have in the U.S., and we may have difficulty developing
    successful distribution strategies and alliances in each of the
    major European countries. In Asia (including Japan), our primary
    mode of distribution is via a network of shops located within
    leading department stores. We may have difficulty in
    successfully retaining this network, and expanding into
    alternate distribution channels. Additionally, macroeconomic
    trends may not be favorable, and could limit our ability to
    implement our growth strategies in select geographies where we
    have foreign operations, such as Europe and Asia.



Our
    business is subject to risks associated with importing
    products.



As of April 2, 2011, we source a significant portion of our
    products outside the U.S. through arrangements with over
    400 foreign vendors in various countries. In Fiscal 2011, over
    98%, by dollar value, of our products were produced outside the
    U.S., primarily in Asia, Europe and South America. Risks
    inherent in importing our products include:



•changes in social, political and economic conditions or
    terrorist acts that could result in the disruption of trade from
    the countries in which our manufacturers or suppliers are
    located;•the imposition of additional regulations relating to imports or
    exports;•the imposition of additional duties, taxes and other charges on
    imports or exports;•significant fluctuations of the cost of raw materials;•increases in the cost of fuel, travel and transportation;•disruptions of shipping and international trade caused by
    natural and man-made disasters;•significant delays in the delivery of cargo due to security
    considerations;•the imposition of antidumping or countervailing duty proceedings
    resulting in the potential assessment of special antidumping or
    countervailing duties; and•the imposition of sanctions in the form of additional duties
    either by the U.S. or its trading partners to remedy
    perceived illegal actions by national governments.







Any one of these factors could have a material adverse effect on
    our financial condition and results of operations.



Our
    profitability may decline as a result of increasing pressure on
    margins.



The apparel industry is subject to significant pricing pressure
    caused by many factors, including intense competition,
    consolidation in the retail industry, pressure from retailers to
    reduce the costs of products and changes in consumer spending
    patterns. These factors may cause us to reduce our sales prices
    to retailers and consumers, which could cause our gross margin
    to decline if we are unable to appropriately manage inventory
    levelsand/orotherwise offset price reductions with comparable reductions in
    our operating costs. If our sales prices decline and we fail to
    sufficiently reduce our product costs or operating expenses, our
    profitability will decline. This could have a material adverse
    effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial
    condition.



Our
    business could suffer as a result of increases in the price of
    raw materials, freight or labor or a manufacturer’s
    inability to produce our goods on time and to our
    specifications.





Our
    business is exposed to domestic and foreign currency
    fluctuations.



We generally purchase our products in U.S. dollars.
    However, we source most of our products overseas. As a result,
    the cost of these products may be affected by changes in the
    value of the relevant currencies. Changes in currency exchange
    rates may also affect the U.S. dollar value of the foreign
    currency denominated prices at which our international
    businesses sell products. Furthermore, our international sales
    and licensing revenue generally is derived from sales in foreign
    currencies. These foreign currencies primarily include the
    Japanese Yen, the South Korean Won, the Euro and the British
    Pound Sterling, and this revenue could be materially affected by
    currency fluctuations. Although we hedge certain exposures to
    changes in foreign currency exchange rates arising in the
    ordinary course of business, we cannot assure that foreign
    currency fluctuations will not have a material adverse impact on
    our financial condition and results of operations. See
    Item 7 —“Management’s Discussion
    and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Market Risk Management.”



Fluctuations
    in our tax obligations and effective tax rate may result in
    volatility of our operating results and stock price.



We are subject to income taxes in many U.S. and certain
    foreign jurisdictions. We record tax expense based on our
    estimates of future payments, which include reserves for
    uncertain tax positions in multiple tax jurisdictions. At any
    one time, multiple tax years are subject to audit by various
    taxing jurisdictions. The results of these audits and
    negotiations with taxing authorities may affect the ultimate
    settlement of these issues. As a result, we expect that
    throughout the year there could be ongoing variability in our
    quarterly tax rates as events occur and exposures are evaluated.
    In addition, our effective tax rate in a given financial
    statement period may be materially impacted by changes in the
    mix and level of earnings by jurisdiction or by changes to
    existing accounting rules or regulations.





Our
    Company has an exclusive relationship with certain customers for
    some of our products. The loss or significant decline in
    business of any of these customers could negatively impact our
    business.



We have exclusive relationships with certain customers for
    distribution of some of our products, including ourAmerican
    LivingandChapsproducts. Our arrangements with
    JCPenney and Kohl’s for theAmerican LivingandChapsproducts, respectively, make us dependent on the
    financial and operational health of those companies.
    Additionally, the loss of either of these relationships could
    have an adverse effect on our Wholesale business.



Our
    business could suffer as a result of consolidations,
    liquidations, restructurings and other ownership changes in the
    retail industry.



Several of our department store customers, including some under
    common ownership, account for significant portions of our
    wholesale net sales. A substantial portion of sales of our
    licensed products by our domestic licensing partners, including
    sales made by our sales force of Ralph Lauren Home products, are
    also made to our largest department store customers. In the
    aggregate, our four largest wholesale customers accounted for
    approximately 40% of our wholesale net sales during Fiscal 2011.
    There can be no assurance that consolidations, restructurings,
    reorganizations or other ownership changes in the department
    store sector will not have a material adverse effect on our
    wholesale business.



We typically do not enter into long-term agreements with our
    customers. Instead, we enter into a number of purchase order
    commitments with our customers for each of our lines every
    season. A decision by the controlling owner of a group of stores
    or any other significant customer, whether motivated by
    competitive conditions, financial difficulties or otherwise, to
    decrease or eliminate the amount of merchandise purchased from
    us or our licensing partners; or to change their manner of doing
    business with us or our licensing partners or their new
    strategic and operational initiatives, including their continued
    focus on further development of their “private label”
    initiatives, could have a material adverse effect on our
    business or financial condition.



Certain
    legal proceedings, regulatory matters and accounting changes
    could adversely impact our results of operations.



We are involved in certain legal proceedings and are subject
    from time to time to various claims involving alleged breach of
    contract claims, intellectual property and other related claims,
    credit card fraud, security breaches in certain of our retail
    store information systems, employment issues, consumer matters
    and other litigations. Certain of these lawsuits and claims, if
    decided adversely to us or settled by us, could result in
    material liability to our Company or have a negative impact on
    our reputation or relations with our employees, customers,
    licensees or other third parties. In addition, regardless of the
    outcome of any litigation or regulatory proceedings, such
    proceedings could result in substantial costs and may require
    that our Company devotes substantial time and resources to
    defend itself. Further, changes in governmental regulations both
    in the U.S., including potential changes in state laws regarding
    the escheatment of unredeemed gift cards, and in other countries
    where we conduct business operations could have an adverse
    impact on our results of operations. See Item 3 —
    “Legal Proceedings” for further discussion of our
    Company’s legal matters.



In addition, we are subject to changes in accounting rules and
    interpretations. The Financial Accounting Standards Board is
    currently in the process of amending a number of existing
    accounting standards governing a variety of areas. Certain of
    these proposed standards, particularly the proposed standard
    governing accounting for leases, if and when effective, would
    likely have a material impact on our consolidated financial
    statements. See Note 4 to the accompanying audited
    consolidated financial statements for further discussion of
    proposed amendments to current accounting standards.



Our
    business could suffer if our computer systems and websites are
    disrupted or cease to operate effectively.



Our Company relies heavily on our computer systems to record and
    process transactions and manage and operate our business. We
    also utilize an automated replenishment system to facilitate the
    processing of basic replenishment orders from our Retail segment
    and our wholesale customers, the movement of goods through
    distribution channels, and the collection of information for
    planning and forecasting. In addition, we have





e-commerceand other Internet websites in the U.S. and U.K. Given the
    complexity of our business and the significant number of
    transactions that we engage in on an annual basis, it is
    imperative that we maintain constant operation of our computer
    hardware and software systems. Despite our preventative efforts,
    our systems are vulnerable from time to time to damage or
    interruption from, among other things, security breaches,
    computer viruses or power outages.



We are continually improving and upgrading our computer systems
    and software. We are in the process of implementing a new global
    financial and reporting system as part of a multi-year plan to
    integrate and upgrade our operational and financial systems and
    processes. The implementation of this global system is scheduled
    to occur in phases over the next several years, and began with
    the migration of certain of our domestic human resource systems
    to the new global financial and reporting system during the
    fourth quarter of Fiscal 2011. This implementation effort will
    continue in the first quarter of Fiscal 2012, when certain of
    our domestic operational and financial systems will be
    transitioned to the new system. Implementation of a new global
    financial and reporting system involves risks and uncertainties.
    Any disruptions, delays or deficiencies in the design or
    implementation of the new system could result in increased costs
    and adversely affect our ability to timely report our financial
    results, which could negatively impact our business and results
    of operations.



A privacy
    breach could damage our reputation and our relationships with
    our customers, expose us to litigation risk and adversely affect
    our business.



As part of our normal course of business, we collect, process
    and retain sensitive and confidential customer information.
    Despite the security measures we have in place, our facilities
    and systems, and those of our third party service providers, may
    be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer
    viruses, misplaced or lost data, programmingand/orhuman
    errors, or other similar events. Any security breach involving
    the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of
    confidential information, whether by our Company or our vendors,
    could severely damage our reputation and our relationships with
    our customers, expose us to risks of litigation and liability
    and adversely affect our business.



Our
    ability to conduct business in international markets may be
    affected by legal, regulatory, political and economic
    risks.



Our ability to capitalize on growth in new international markets
    and to maintain the current level of operations in our existing
    international markets is subject to risks associated with
    international operations. These include:



•the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws and
    regulations;•unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; and•new tariffs or other barriers in some international markets.



We are also subject to general political and economic risks in
    connection with our international operations, including:



•political instability and terrorist attacks;•changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; and•general economic fluctuations in specific countries or markets.



We cannot predict whether quotas, duties, taxes, or other
    similar restrictions will be imposed by the U.S., the European
    Union, Asia, or other countries upon the import or export of our
    products in the future, or what effect any of these actions
    would have on our business, financial condition or results of
    operations. Changes in regulatory, geopolitical, social or
    economic policies and other factors may have a material adverse
    effect on our business in the future or may require us to
    significantly modify our current business practices.





Our
    results of operations could be affected by natural events in the
    locations in which we or our customers or suppliers
    operate.



We have operations, including retail, distribution and
    warehousing operations, in locations subject to natural
    disasters such as severe weather and geological events that
    could disrupt our operations. In addition, our suppliers and
    customers also have operations in these locations. Such an event
    occurred in Japan on March 11, 2011, where the northern
    region of Japan experienced a severe earthquake followed by a
    series of tsunamis, resulting in damage to the region’s
    industrial infrastructure and environmental pollution. In
    addition to the negative direct effects to the Japanese economy,
    the country’s position as a major exporter in the world may
    result in a regional or global downturn in economic activity.
    The degree to which the earthquake in Japan will have an
    economic disruption on the regional and global economies remains
    uncertain at this time; however, the impact may result in a
    decrease in the demand for our products that could have an
    adverse impact on our financial condition and results of
    operations.



Our
    trademarks and other intellectual property rights may not be
    adequately protected outside the U.S.



and/or

“Business

Trademarks,”

“Legal Proceedings.”



Our
    business could suffer if one of our manufacturers fails to use
    acceptable labor practices.



We require our licensing partners and independent manufacturers
    to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
    While our internal and vendor operating guidelines promote
    ethical business practices and our staff periodically visits and
    monitors the operations of our independent manufacturers, we do
    not control these manufacturers or their labor practices. The
    violation of labor or other laws by an independent manufacturer
    used by us or one of our licensing partners, or the divergence
    of an independent manufacturer’s or licensing
    partner’s labor practices from those generally accepted as
    ethical or appropriate in the U.S., could interrupt, or
    otherwise disrupt the shipment of finished products to us or
    damage our reputation. Any of these, in turn, could have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
    of operations.



Our
    business could suffer if we need to replace
    manufacturers.



We compete with other companies for the production capacity of
    our manufacturers. Some of these competitors have greater
    financial and other resources than we have, and thus may have an
    advantage in the competition for production. If we experience a
    significant increase in demand, or if an existing manufacturer
    of ours must be replaced, we may have to expand our third-party
    manufacturing capacity. We cannot guarantee that this additional
    capacity will be available when required on terms that are
    acceptable to us. See Item 1 —“Business—Sourcing, Production and Quality.”We enter into a number of purchase order commitments each
    season specifying a time for delivery, method of payment, design
    and quality specifications and other standard industry
    provisions, but do not have long-term contracts with any
    manufacturer. None of the manufacturers we use produce our
    products exclusively.





We rely
    on our licensing partners to preserve the value of our
    licenses.



The risks associated with our own products also apply to our
    licensed products in addition to any number of possible risks
    specific to a licensing partner’s business, including, for
    example, risks associated with a particular licensing
    partner’s ability to:



•obtain capital;•manage its labor relations;•maintain relationships with its suppliers;•manage its credit and bankruptcy risks effectively; and•maintain relationships with its customers.



Although a number of our license agreements prohibit licensing
    partners from entering into licensing arrangements with our
    competitors, our licensing partners generally are not precluded
    from offering, under other brands, the types of products covered
    by their license agreements with us. A substantial portion of
    sales of our products by our domestic licensing partners are
    also made to our largest customers. While we have significant
    control over our licensing partners’ products and
    advertising, we rely on our licensing partners for, among other
    things, operational and financial control over their businesses.
    Changes in management, reduced sales of licensed products, poor
    execution or financial difficulties with respect to any of our
    licensing partners could adversely affect our revenues, both
    directly from reduced licensing revenue received and indirectly
    from reduced sales of our other products. See
    Item 1 —“Business—Our
    Licensing Segment.”



Failure
    to maintain licensing partners could harm our
    business.



Although we believe in most circumstances we could replace
    existing licensing partners if necessary, our inability to do so
    for any period of time could adversely affect our revenues, both
    directly from reduced licensing revenue received and indirectly
    from reduced sales of our other products. See
    Item 1 —“Business—Our
    Licensing Segment.”



The
    voting shares of our Company’s stock are concentrated in
    one majority stockholder.



As of April 2, 2011, Mr. Ralph Lauren, or entities
    controlled by the Lauren family, owned approximately 76% of the
    voting power of the outstanding common stock of our Company. As
    a result, Mr. Lauren has the ability to exercise
    significant control over our business, including, without
    limitation, (i) the election of our Class B common
    stock directors, voting separately as a class, and (ii) any
    action requiring the approval of our stockholders, including the
    adoption of amendments to our certificate of incorporation and
    the approval of mergers or sales of all or substantially all of
    our assets.



The
    trading prices of our securities periodically may rise or fall
    based on the accuracy of predictions of our earnings or other
    financial performance.



Our business planning process is designed to maximize our
    long-term strength, growth and profitability, not to achieve an
    earnings target in any particular fiscal quarter. We believe
    that this longer-term focus is in the best interests of our
    Company and our stockholders. At the same time, however, we
    recognize that from time to time it may be helpful to provide
    investors with guidance as to our quarterly and annual forecast
    of net sales and earnings. While we generally expect to provide
    updates to our guidance when we report our results each fiscal
    quarter, we assume no responsibility to update any of our
    forward-looking statements at such times or otherwise. If and
    when we announce actual results that differ from those that have
    been predicted by us, outside analysts or others, the market
    price of our securities could be affected. Investors who rely on
    the predictions when making investment decisions with respect to
    our securities do so at their own risk. We take no
    responsibility for any losses suffered as a result of such
    changes in the prices of our securities.





Risks
    Relating to the Industry in Which We Compete



The
    downturn in the global economy may continue to affect consumer
    purchases of discretionary items and luxury retail products,
    which could adversely affect our sales.



The industries in which we operate are cyclical. Many economic
    factors outside of our control affect the level of consumer
    spending in the apparel, cosmetic, fragrance, accessories and
    home products industries, including, among others:



•general business conditions;•economic downturns;•employment levels;•downturns in the stock market;•interest rates;•the housing market;•consumer debt levels;•the availability of consumer credit;•increases in fuel prices;•taxation; and•consumer confidence in future economic conditions.



Consumer purchases of discretionary items and luxury retail
    products, including our products, may continue to decline during
    recessionary periods and at other times when disposable income
    is lower. A downturn or an uncertain outlook in the economies in
    which we, or our licensing partners, sell our products may
    materially adversely affect our businesses and our revenues and
    profits. See Item 7 —“Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations — Overview—Our
    Objectives and Risks”for further discussion.



The domestic and international political situation also affects
    consumer confidence. The threat, outbreak or escalation of
    terrorism, military conflicts or other hostilities could lead to
    a decrease in consumer spending and may materially adversely
    affect our business, revenues and profits.



We face
    intense competition in the worldwide apparel industry.



We face a variety of intense competitive challenges from other
    domestic and foreign fashion-oriented apparel and casual apparel
    producers, some of which may be significantly larger and more
    diversified and have greater financial and marketing resources
    than we have. We compete with these companies primarily on the
    basis of:



•anticipating and responding to changing consumer demands in a
    timely manner;•maintaining favorable brand recognition, loyalty and reputation
    for quality;•developing innovative, high-quality products in sizes, colors
    and styles that appeal to consumers;•appropriately sourcing raw materials at cost-effective prices;•appropriately pricing products;•failure to anticipate and maintain proper inventory levels;•providing strong and effective marketing support;•creating an acceptable value proposition for retail customers;•ensuring product availability and optimizing supply chain
    efficiencies with manufacturers and retailers; and•obtaining sufficient retail floor space and effective
    presentation of our products at retail stores.







We also face increasing competition from companies selling
    apparel and home products through the Internet. Although we sell
    our products through the Internet, increased competition in the
    worldwide apparel, accessories and home product industries from
    Internet-based competitors could reduce our sales, prices and
    margins and adversely affect our results of operations.



The
    success of our business depends on our ability to respond to
    constantly changing fashion trends and consumer
    demands.



“Business — Sourcing, Production and
    Quality.”



