Item 1.Business

Overview

CBOE Holdings, Inc. is the holding company for Chicago Board Options Exchange, Incorporated, C2 Options Exchange, Incorporated, CBOE Futures Exchange, LLC and other subsidiaries.

The primary business of the Company is the operation of markets for the trading of listed, or exchange-traded, options contracts on three broad product categories: 1) the stocks of individual corporations (equity options), 2) various market indexes (index options) and 3) other exchange-traded products (ETP options), such as exchange-traded funds (ETF options) and exchange-traded notes (ETN options). We also offer futures products through our futures market. The Company owns and operates three stand-alone exchanges, but reports the results of its operations in one reporting segment. CBOE is our primary market and offers trading for listed options through a single system that integrates electronic trading and traditional open outcry trading on our trading floor in Chicago. This integration of electronic trading and traditional open outcry trading into a single exchange is known as our Hybrid trading model. C2, launched in October 2010, is our all-electronic exchange that also offers trading for listed options, but with a different market model and fee structure than CBOE. CFE, our all-electronic futures exchange, offers futures on the VIX Index, as well as on other products.  All of our exchanges operate on our proprietary technology platform known as CBOE Command.

Since 1974, the first full year of trading on CBOE, trading volume on our exchanges has grown from over 5.6 million contracts to1.1 billioncontracts in2012, our most recent fiscal year.  In addition, the number of exchanges operating markets for the trading of exchange-traded options has expanded to eleven as of December 31, 2012.

The following chart illustrates annual contract volume across the different categories of products traded at the Company for the periods indicated:

Annual Contract Volume20122011201020092008Equities494,289,301516,136,937572,688,137634,710,477604,024,956Indexes304,339,908320,389,993269,989,511222,787,514259,499,726Exchange-traded products311,792,122368,364,057276,362,700277,266,218329,830,388Total Options Volume1,110,421,3311,204,890,9871,119,040,3481,134,764,2091,193,355,070Futures23,892,93112,041,1024,402,3781,155,3181,161,019Total Contract Volume1,134,314,2621,216,932,0891,123,442,7261,135,919,5271,194,516,089

Our operating revenues are primarily driven by transaction fee revenues, which are generated on the contracts traded on our exchanges. In order to increase the volume of contracts traded on our exchanges, we strive to develop and promote contracts designed to satisfy the trading, hedging and risk-management needs of our market participants.

Our principal executive offices are located at 400 South LaSalle Street, Chicago, Illinois 60605, and our telephone number is (312) 786-5600.

Our web site iswww.cboe.com. Information contained on or linked through our web site is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

History

CBOE was founded in 1973 as a non-stock corporation owned by its Members. CBOE was the first organized marketplace for the trading of standardized, exchange-traded options on equity securities. CBOE Holdings was incorporated in the State of Delaware on August 15, 2006. In June 2010, CBOE demutualized (see "Restructuring Transaction") and CBOE, C2 and CFE became wholly-owned subsidiaries of CBOE Holdings. In 2004, CBOE began to operate a futures exchange, CFE, and on October 29, 2010, C2, the Company's all-electronic options exchange, initiated operations.

Restructuring Transaction

On June 18, 2010, CBOE converted from a non-stock corporation owned by its Members into a stock corporation that is a wholly-owned subsidiary of CBOE Holdings. In the restructuring transaction, each CBOE regular membership (an "Exchange Seat") owned by a CBOE Member on June 18, 2010 converted into 80,000 shares of Class A common stock of CBOE









Holdings. Seat owners received a total of 74,400,000 shares of Class A common stock of CBOE Holdings in the restructuring transaction. In addition, certain persons who satisfied the qualification requirements set forth in the Settlement Agreement in the Delaware Action received a total of 16,333,380 shares of Class B common stock of CBOE Holdings on June 18, 2010. Pursuant to the Settlement Agreement, qualifying members of the plaintiff class received a cash payment of$300.0 million.

Immediately following the issuance of the Class A and Class B common stock, the board of directors of CBOE Holdings declared and paid a special dividend of $1.25 per outstanding share of Class A and Class B common stock, or $113.4 million in the aggregate.

The initial public offering of 13,455,000 shares of unrestricted common stock, including 2,085,774 shares of unrestricted common stock sold by selling stockholders, for a price of $29.00 per share, was completed on June 18, 2010. Net proceeds to the Company after deducting underwriter's fees and commissions and other related expenses were $301.2 million. Costs directly associated with the Company's initial public offering were recorded as a reduction of the gross proceeds received in arriving at the amount recorded in additional paid-in capital.

Upon consummation of the initial public offering, the shares of Class A and Class B common stock not converted into unrestricted common stock and sold in the initial public offering automatically converted into 44,323,803 shares of Class A-1 common stock and 44,323,803 shares of Class A-2 common stock.

The restructuring transaction, completed on June 18, 2010, converted CBOE from a non-stock company with Members into a wholly-owned subsidiary of CBOE Holdings, a corporation with stockholders. Members that owned an Exchange Seat became stockholders of CBOE Holdings.

Tender Offers

On November 24, 2010, the Company completed two concurrent tender offers for 5,983,713 shares of Class A-1 common stock and 5,983,713 shares of Class A-2 common stock at a purchase price of $25.00 per share. The purpose of the tender offers was to allow Class A-1 and Class A-2 stockholders to obtain liquidity for a certain portion of their shares. Subsequent to the closing of the tender offers and automatic conversion of Class A-1 common stock, an additional 31,723 shares of unrestricted common stock and 18,746 shares of Class A-2 common stock were purchased by the Company due to a clerical adjustment. The net proceeds received from our initial public offering were used to purchase the shares of Class A-1 and Class A-2 common stock in the tender offers.

Conversion of Class A-1 and Class A-2 Common Stock

On December 15, 2010 and June 13, 2011, respectively, each share of Class A-1 and Class A-2 common stock issued and outstanding, totaling 38,340,090 and 38,297,994, respectively, converted into one share of unrestricted common stock, totaling 76,638,084 shares. As a result, as of December 31, 2011, no shares of Class A-1 or Class A-2 common stock were outstanding.

Industry

Our primary business of offering exchange-traded options and futures is part of the large and growing global derivatives industry. Derivatives are financial contracts whose value is derived from some other underlying asset or reference value. These underlying assets and reference values include individual stocks, stock indexes, debt instruments, interest rates, currencies, commodities, various benchmarks related to trading and investment strategies, economic indicators and "artificial" assets such as pollution rights. The global derivatives industry includes both exchanges and a large over-the-counter market. The most common types of derivatives are options, futures and swap contracts. These products allow for various types of risk to be isolated and transferred.

Exchange-Traded Options and Futures

Options represent a contract giving the buyer the right, but not the obligation, to buy or sell a specified quantity of an underlying security or index at a specific price for a specific period of time. Options provide investors a means for hedging, speculation and income generation, while at the same time providing leverage with respect to the underlying asset. Options on U.S. securities are traded privately between two parties (known as "over-the-counter" or "OTC" options), as well as traded on U.S. securities exchanges. The vast majority of derivatives traded on U.S. securities exchanges are options on individual equities, market indexes and ETPs. Over-the-counter options that are traded also include options on individual equities, ETPs and indexes, including SPX.

Futures represent a contract in which the buyer and seller agree on a price today for a product to be delivered and paid for in the future. Each contract specifies the quantity of the item and the time of delivery or payment.

Trading









In the listed options market, there are currently options contracts covering approximately 3,200 underlying stocks, indexes and ETPs. The presence of dedicated liquidity providers, including market-makers, is a key feature of the options markets. Market-makers are required to provide continuous bids and offers for substantially all listed option series. In return for these commitments, market-makers receive margin relief as well as other incentives such as participation rights and fee incentives.

Over the past decade, trading in the options market has migrated from being almost exclusively conducted face-to-face, or "open outcry," to being primarily electronic.  As a result, many liquidity providers now operate remotely, away from the physical trading floors, and the majority of options trading volume is handled and executed electronically.

Trends

Fragmentation

Over the past ten years, the number of options exchanges has more than doubled, from five exchanges to eleven. Consolidation of any scale at the holding company level last impacted the listed options markets in 2008, when the parent corporations for Amex and NYSE ARCA merged.  The ability to offer multiple, differentiated market and pricing models, coupled with the scalability of introducing new exchanges on existing technology, have led to multiple exchange operators, including CBOE, operating more than one exchange.  As the business continues to expand, and offer greater margins than the equity trading business, it is possible that our competitors, or new entrants into the exchange business, could open new options exchanges.

Cost Competition

As the number of exchange participants expands, exchanges have become much more aggressive at utilizing fees to attract business.  This includes both transaction fees assessed to access liquidity, and incentive programs to attract order flow.  Order flow, particularly retail order flow, is the primary driver of option exchange operating results.  In the past several years, the competition for this business has become increasingly fierce, with both exchanges and market-makers competing to attract this order flow.  Some exchanges have structured their options businesses in partnership with established market participants and order flow providers.  Others offer specific payments for order flow, in addition to any economic incentives received from market-makers and other participants.

Technology

Exchanges also differentiate themselves based on the technology, both in terms of functionality and performance, which they employ to attract market participants.  Market participants continually demand improved performance and reduced latency.  They expect exchanges to provide them with additional functionality, including risk mitigation for market-makers and processing of complex orders.

Competitive Strengths

We have established ourselves as a global leader and innovator in the options industry. We believe we are well positioned to further enhance our leadership position through several key competitive strengths:

•Leading Brand, Reputation and Market Position.As the world's first options exchange, CBOE's leadership role in options trading is recognized worldwide. We are the largest U.S. options exchange, based on both contract volume and notional value and one of the largest options exchanges in the world. Our opinions and positions on industry issues are sought by regulators, elected officials, industry and finance leaders and policy experts worldwide.

•Innovation and Product Development.In addition to being the original marketplace for standardized, exchange-traded options, we created the world's first index options and have been the source of many other innovations with respect to products, systems and market structure in the options industry.

•Innovation—We work closely and collaboratively with market participants to introduce new products and services to meet the evolving needs of the derivatives industry. We have introduced innovative products such as index options, options and futures on the VIX Index and other volatility indexes, Long-Term Equity Anticipation Securities ("LEAPS") and FLEX options.  Our option strategy benchmark indexes, such as the CBOE S&P 500 BuyWrite Index, the CBOE S&P 500 PutWrite Index, and the CBOE S&P 500 Implied Correlation Index, have received industry awards for innovation.  In 2012, we introduced S&P 500 Variance futures on CFE, S&P 500 Range options on CBOE, and security futures and options on the CBOE Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index and the CBOE Crude Oil ETF Volatility Index, among other products.









•Exclusive Products —We have the exclusive right to list securities options based on the S&P 500, the S&P 100 and the DJIA indexes and have created our own proprietary indexes and index methodologies, including the VIX Index and other volatility products based on the VIX methodology. Some of our exclusive products are among the most actively traded products on CBOE and in the industry. Our proprietary indexes and index methodologies provide benchmarks for options users and investment product issuers, serve as the basis for our exclusive products and provide us with licensing revenue.

•Hybrid Trading Model.Our Hybrid trading model on CBOE integrates open outcry and electronic trading into a single exchange. We believe that this innovative approach offers our users a diverse pool of liquidity and the ability to execute complex strategies that may not be available on purely screen-based trading systems.

•Leading Proprietary Technology Platform.We own, operate and maintain our core trading and information technology and systems, and we continue to commit substantial resources towards ongoing development and implementation of these capabilities. Market participants rely on our technology and infrastructure, which provides a high level of availability and reliability. We believe the CBOE Command trading platform is among the most advanced trading platforms in the world. It can simultaneously support both screen and floor-based trading for multiple trading models, products and matching algorithms. The technology underlying CBOE Command is designed for extremely high performance, capable of handling over a million transactions a second with micro-second response time. It is built on open standards providing platform independence and is designed to be scalable for both capacity and throughput.

•Liquidity.We support the options trading activities of Trading Permit Holders, i.e. individuals or firms that hold trading permits (TPH organizations). We believe that this diverse pool of liquidity providers, in combination with our broad range of products, Hybrid trading model and the CBOE Command trading platform, offers our users the liquid markets they require to effectively execute their trading strategies.

•Experienced Management Team.Our management team has extensive experience in the options industry, with the members of the senior management team having an average of over 25 years of experience in the options industry. Our management team has demonstrated an ability to grow our business through continued product and technological innovations and to respond to changing industry dynamics through ongoing adaptation of our market model.  In addition, as announced in December 2012, effective at the 2013 annual meeting of stockholders, William J. Brodsky, our current Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, will become the Executive Chairman and Edward T. Tilly, our current President and Chief Operating Officer, will become Chief Executive Officer, with Edward L. Provost, our current Executive Vice President and Chief Business Development Officer, assuming the title of President and Chief Operating Officer. Our ability to promote from within demonstrates the talent and depth among senior management at our Company.

Growth Strategy

Despite a decline in current year trading, over the past several years, trading in derivative products has expanded as a result of a number of factors including technological advances that have increased investor access, declining costs to users, globalization and greater understanding of the products by increasingly sophisticated market participants. The Company is well positioned to leverage its competitive strengths to take advantage of these trends.

We intend to further expand our business and increase our revenues and profitability by pursuing the following growth strategies:

•Continue to Enhance Our Trading Platform.We recognize that the opportunity to participate in the growth of the derivative markets will be driven in great part by the trading functionality and systems capabilities that an exchange offers to market participants. The CBOE Command trading platform offers state-of-the-art functionality, speed, performance, capacity and reliability, providing the ability to support both the hybrid trading model at CBOE and, in alternative configurations, the fully electronic models at C2 and CFE. We intend to use our strong in-house development capabilities and continued investment to further augment the functionality and capacity of our trading systems. In 2012, we moved our trade engine for CBOE and CFE to New Jersey in order to reduce distance latency for firms trading on our exchanges (C2's trade engine was already located in New Jersey).

•Develop Innovative Products.We intend to continue to build on our reputation as an industry innovator through the development of new and innovative products. We intend to use licensed products and proprietary intellectual property to create exclusive products that meet the needs of the derivatives industry and enhance our brand. We anticipate that our new and innovative products will help drive trading volumes by attracting new customers to our exchanges and expand the array of products available to existing customers. In addition, we believe our









continuing product innovations will generate increased use of our other products, in the same way that VIX products and the CBOE S&P 500 BuyWrite Index have generated additional trading activity in SPX.

•Pursue International Opportunities.In 2012, we announced plans to open a London hub and expand to nearly 24 hour trading in 2013 on CFE.   The hub is intended to provide European firms with a cost-efficient way to send and receive CFE data and execute trades on the exchange. The London hub began operations in February 2013. The extended trading session will be designed to accommodate European firms that want to establish or offset VIX Index futures positions.    We also held our first European Risk Management Conference in 2012, building on the success of our domestic Risk Management Conference. We plan to continue pursuing international opportunities to increase trading in our products.

•Offer Compelling Economic Market Model.Our fee schedule provides benefits to market participants who concentrate their overall trading activity, whether market-maker, agency or firm proprietary, on CBOE.  We believe that our fee structure encourages market participants to increase their business at CBOE by reducing the per contract fee or increasing per contract incentives based on the attainment of certain monthly volume thresholds.  In 2012, we introduced a new Volume Incentive Program ("VIP") that provides payments to firms that execute volume in excess of certain volume thresholds.  Since its introduction, we have introduced changes to VIP to remain competitive.  In February 2013, we introduced an innovative pricing model on C2 that bases fees and rebates, for equity options, on the spread between bids and offers, or market width. We regularly review and update our fee schedule to provide an industry-leading economic offering.

•Increase Knowledge About Our Products.We are committed to educating potential investors about the uses for our products, especially our proprietary products.  To that end, we intend to continue our offerings through the Options Institute, including education sessions and published materials, both printed and online.  We also educate potential investors through our domestic and European Risk Management Conferences and through participation in industry events.  We plan to continue these activities and look for other opportunities to grow the user base for our products.

•Attract Over-the-Counter Market Participants.We seek to attract participants from the over-the-counter market, who have been under pressure to move trading to a centrally cleared and centrally traded environment. CFLEX, our electronic system for trading FLEX options, allows participants to customize key contract terms including strike price, exercise style and expiration dates of up to fifteen years with the administrative ease and clearing guarantees of standardized listed options. We launched a new version of CFLEX in 2012, CFLEX 2.0, that enables users to conveniently access FLEX options via CBOE Command and standard CBOE interfaces, which is of particular appeal to dealers who are active in OTC equity options.  Also, in 2012, we introduced S&P 500 Variance futures on CFE, which we believe will have appeal to OTC market participants.  S&P 500 Variance futures offer similar quoting conventions and economic performance as OTC variance swaps, while providing the advantages of exchange-traded contracts -- transparency, price discovery and counterparty clearing guarantees.

•Expand Service Offerings.We believe there are significant opportunities to derive revenue from new and expanded service offerings, including through the sale of market data. Our subsidiary, Market Data Express, LLC ("MDX") sells historical options data, as well as real-time data for certain proprietary products and indexes. It also provides market data through CBOE Streaming Markets ("CSM"), a streaming data feed that includes more detailed information than the data provided by the Options Price Reporting Authority (“OPRA”). In 2013, we plan to enhance CSM's offerings to include market depth. In addition, through a set of arrangements with S&P, we permit S&P to license the Company's proprietary indexes and index methodologies for certain purposes to securities firms and other exchanges. The Company and S&P have agreed that S&P may license one or more clearing agencies to clear OTC options based on the S&P 500 index that meet certain criteria, and that S&P will compensate us for any transaction cleared under such a license based on the notional value of the transaction.

•Pursue Select Strategic Opportunities.We evaluate strategic opportunities that we believe will enhance stockholder value.  We specifically look for strategic opportunities beyond our current businesses that will capitalize on our core competencies and diversify our sources of revenue.

Products

Our options exchanges provide a marketplace for the trading of options contracts that meet criteria established in rules of the respective exchange. The options contracts listed for trading include options on individual equities, options on various market indexes as well as options on ETPs. In addition, we provide marketplaces for trading futures contracts and cash equities through CFE and CBOE Stock Exchange, LLC ("CBSX"), respectively. CBSX is not a consolidated subsidiary of the Company.









•Equity Options.We offer trading in options with terms of up to nine months on the stocks of approximately 2,800 corporations. The stocks underlying our individual equity options are listed on equity exchanges. In addition, we also offer trading in LEAPS on approximately 850 stocks.

•Index Options.We offer trading in options on several different broad-based market indexes, including the VIX Index, a proprietary index that we developed, which has become a widely recognized measure of equity market volatility. The index options we list include some of the most widely recognized measures of the U.S. equity markets, such as the S&P 500, the DJIA, the NASDAQ 100 and the Russell 2000. Options based on indexes are among our most actively traded products, with several options listed exclusively with us (for example, options on the S&P 500, S&P 100, DJIA and the VIX Index). We also offer trading in LEAPS on several of our index products.

•Options on ETPs.We offer trading in options on over 350 ETFs and ETNs based on various domestic and foreign market indexes, as well as on volatility, commodities, currencies and fixed income instruments. We also offer trading in LEAPS on 90 ETPs.

•Futures.We provide a marketplace for trading futures through our wholly-owned subsidiary, CFE. To date, CFE has focused on the trading of futures related to CBOE-created volatility indexes.

•Equities.In early 2007, the Company invested, along with several broker dealers, in an exchange that provides a marketplace for individual equity securities.  This trading facility, known as CBSX, provides a marketplace for trading stocks listed on equity exchanges. As stated above, CBSX is not a consolidated subsidiary of the Company.

Proprietary Products

The Company has developed several of its own proprietary indexes and index methodologies.  These include volatility indexes based on various broad-based market indexes (such as the S&P 500, the DJIA, the NASDAQ 100 and the Russell 2000), volatility indexes based on ETFs and individual stocks, the CBOE S&P 500 Implied Correlation Index and a series of option strategy benchmarks, including BuyWrite, PutWrite and Collar indexes based on the S&P 500 and BuyWrite indexes based on other broad-based market indexes. We also have licensed others to use some of these indexes to create products and have entered into agreements whereby we have granted to others the rights to sub-license some of these indexes. The Company generates revenue from the calculation and dissemination of over thirty real-time index values for third party licensors and from the licensing of our proprietary indexes.

In 2012, we introduced S&P 500 Range options on CBOE, and the CBOE NASDAQ-100 Volatility Index futures and S&P 500 Variance futures, all traded on CFE.   Security futures and options on the CBOE Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, the CBOE Brazil ETF Volatility Index and the CBOE Crude Oil ETF Volatility Index were also launched on CFE and CBOE, respectively.

Strategic Relationships

The Company also has long-term business relationships with several providers of market indexes. We license their indexes as the basis for index options. In some instances, these licenses provide us with the exclusive right to list options contracts based on these indexes. Of particular note are the following:

•S&P 500 and S&P 100 Indexes.We are able to offer options contracts on the S&P 500 Index and the S&P 100 Index as a result of a licensing arrangement with S&P Dow Jones Indices, LLC. Under our license with S&P Dow Jones Indices, LLC, CBOE and C2 have the exclusive right to list options on these indexes until 2018 and the right to use these and several other indexes published by Standard & Poor's as the basis for standardized, exchange-traded options contracts until 2022.

•DJIA.We are able to offer contracts on the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) as a result of a licensing arrangement with S&P Dow Jones Indices, LLC. This license provides us the right to use the DJIA and several other indexes published by Index Services as the basis for standardized, exchange-traded options contracts. Under the license, the Company has the exclusive right to list securities options on the DJIA during standard U.S. trading hours until December 31, 2017.

•NASDAQ 100.We are able to offer contracts on the NASDAQ 100 Index as a result of a licensing arrangement with NASDAQ. This license provides CBOE the right to use the NASDAQ 100 as the basis for standardized, exchange-traded options contracts. The license with NASDAQ is non-exclusive and is effective until the end of 2015.

•Russell Indexes.We are able to offer contracts on the Russell 2000 and other indexes in the Russell index family as a result of a licensing arrangement with Frank Russell Co. This license provides CBOE the right to use the









Russell indexes as the basis for standardized, exchange-traded options contracts. This license is non-exclusive and is effective through the end of 2014.

Market Model

As discussed in more detail below, our exchanges provide reliable, orderly, liquid and efficient marketplaces for the trading of options and futures by market participants. Our exchanges operate quote-driven auction markets that involve a number of different market participants.

Trading Permit Holders

Purchasing a monthly Market-Maker Trading Permit (CBOE, C2), Electronic Access Permit (CBOE, C2) or Floor Broker Trading Permit (CBOE) for the respective exchange conveys "Trading Permit Holder" status on the respective exchange to the permit holder. Parties are required to have CFE Trading Privilege Holder status in order to have trading privileges on CFE.

A Trading Permit Holder on one of our options exchanges is allowed to enter orders into the trading system for that  exchange. Trading Permit Holder entities can execute trades for their own accounts, for clearing firm accounts, for the accounts of other permit holders or for the accounts of customers of clearing firms.

Options Trading Permits:

•Market-Maker Trading Permit Holders (CBOE, C2)—As discussed in more detail under "Market Participants," a Market-Maker Trading Permit entitles the holder to act as a market-maker, DPM, eDPM or LMM on the respective exchange, if applicable on such exchange. This permit provides an appointment credit of 1.0 (which is a measure of how many classes the Trading Permit Holder can quote), a quoting and order entry bandwidth allowance, up to three logins and trading floor access. Trading all classes listed on CBOE requires a minimum of thirty-three permits.



•Electronic Access Permit ("EAP") (CBOE, C2)—The EAP entitles the holder to electronic access to the exchange. The CBOE EAP permit does not provide access to the trading floor.  The EAP provides an order entry bandwidth allowance and up to three logins.

•Floor Broker Trading Permit (CBOE)—The Floor Broker Trading Permit entitles the holder to act as a Floor Broker. This permit provides an order entry bandwidth allowance, up to three logins and trading floor access.

Applicants for Trading Permit Holder Status

Applicants for Trading Permit Holder status must have adequate financial resources and credit to assume the responsibilities and privileges of Trading Permit Holder status. All Trading Permit Holders must understand the rules and regulations of the applicable exchange and agree to abide by them. Additionally, they must comply with the provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") and the rules and regulations issued by the SEC.

Our Regulatory Services Division is the investigative arm of our exchanges with regard to exchange rules. Trading Permit Holders who are found to have violated a rule can be subject to sanctions such as fines, trading suspensions and/or expulsion from the particular exchange.

Market Participants

Direct access to our options marketplaces is granted through trading permits. A trading permit entitles the holder to conduct business on the exchange, including in one of the participant roles described below.

•Market-Maker.A market-maker engages in trading our products either for its own account or for the account of his or her firm, but does not act as an agent representing orders for customers. A market-maker may operate on the trading floor (CBOE only) or remotely and has certain quoting obligations in its appointed product classes. They are granted margin relief to ensure they can conduct business without requiring excessive amounts of capital. Market-makers must have a relationship with a clearing firm that will hold and guarantee their positions. The majority of trading permits in use on CBOE are used for market making. In order for a Market-Maker Trading Permit to be used to act as a market-maker in any of SPX options, VIX options or SPXpm options, the Trading Permit Holder must obtain a "Tier Appointment" for the respective option class. Each Tier Appointment is exchange-specific and class-specific.

•Lead Market-Maker, or LMM.An LMM is a market-maker that assumes special obligations with respect to providing electronic and/or open outcry quotes for specific options classes at CBOE. Currently, LMMs are utilized in SPX options and S&P 100 Index options, and as open outcry quote providers in certain classes where









an off-floor DPM is providing electronic markets only. Other than in SPX, the LMMs receive participation rights in electronic or open outcry. In SPX, LMMs do not receive participation rights, and four LMMs are appointed to quote simultaneously each expiration cycle.

•Floor Broker.An individual who represents orders on the CBOE trading floor as an agent is known as a floor broker. Floor brokers generally do not trade for their own account and do not receive any margin relief. They generate revenue by charging commissions to their customers for their services. A floor broker may represent orders for his firm's proprietary account provided it is done in accordance with CBOE rules.

•Designated Primary Market-Maker, or DPM.A DPM is a market-maker firm that has been assigned responsibilities in certain options classes at CBOE. DPMs are obligated to provide continuous quotes in their appointed classes but at a higher standard than that of regular market-makers. DPMs are also expected to participate in business development efforts to attract business to CBOE for their appointed classes. DPMs also are granted "participation rights" in their appointed classes. Participation rights guarantee DPMs a minimum share of each trade for which they are on the best market.

•Electronic Designated Primary Market-Maker, or eDPM.An eDPM is a market-maker that has been assigned responsibilities similar to a DPM but only operates remotely, not on the trading floor. They also are granted participation rights in their appointed classes but at a lower level than that of DPMs, reflecting their slightly lesser obligations. eDPMs serve to supplement the role of the DPM and are also motivated to engage in business development efforts in their appointed classes.

•Member Firm.The term "member firm" is typically used to refer to those firms that bring order flow to the exchanges and that are Trading Permit Holders for the purpose of executing their customers' orders on the CBOE or C2 marketplace. These firms are also referred to as "order flow providers." They generate revenue by charging commissions for their services to their customers and in some cases through the receipt of payment for their order flow.

Several of the functions described above, namely, market-maker, DPM, eDPM and LMM, are often grouped together as "liquidity providers." This name refers to the fact that they all provide liquidity to the options market through their various obligations to provide to the marketplace two-sided quotes at which they are obligated to trade. Any of these liquidity providers may be designated as a preferred market-maker by a member firm routing an order to CBOE. The preferred market-maker is afforded a participation right on specific orders provided that he or she meets certain other requirements with respect to the relevant option class and quoting obligations.

Under its rules, CFE has the authority to establish market-maker programs in its products and appoint one or more DPMs, LMMs or market-makers.  However, CFE does not have a DPM, LMM or market-maker program in VIX futures.

Hybrid Trading Model

Most option classes on CBOE are traded using its Hybrid trading model, in which aspects of both open outcry and electronic trading are integrated to function as a single exchange. Both C2 and CFE are all-electronic exchanges. Our Hybrid trading model is supported by state-of-the-art technology, including the CBOE Command trading platform, which, in alternative configurations, also serves as the trading platform for C2 and CFE.

CBOE market-makers stream their own individual quotes and orders into the CBOE trading engine and, if on the floor, in open outcry transactions effected in their trading crowd. Our Hybrid trading model allows CBOE to offer the best of both electronic and open outcry trading models.

Algorithms

At the core of our market model are the matching algorithms, which is the means by which trades are executed and allocated to market participants. Our technology and the rules of our exchanges provide for a variety of different algorithms for matching buyers and sellers. We have the ability to apply different matching algorithms to different products in order to meet the needs of particular market segments. The setting of the matching algorithm affects the share of each trade that a market participant receives and is central to the opportunity and profit potential of market-makers and other liquidity providers.

•CBOE's matching algorithm is modified pro-rata, with customer priority. CBOE's modified pro-rata algorithms grant liquidity providers, who meet certain criteria, additional participation rights, based on a variety of factors.

•C2's matching algorithm is pro-rata for multiply-listed options classes. In February 2013, C2 equity option classes switched from a straight pro-rata allocation algorithm to a price/time matching algorithm with customer priority and DPM entitlement, as defined below.









•The matching algorithm for VIX futures on CFE is price-time priority. CFE has the flexibility to establish different matching algorithms for its products.  CFE also offers Trade at Settlement (TAS) transactions in VIX futures, which are aimed at helping traders even out end-of-day price exposure in VIX futures.

Our options trading systems monitors the National Best Bid and Offer ("NBBO"), and orders are not executed at a price inferior to the displayed NBBO, except pursuant to limited exceptions provided in CBOE or C2's rules.  Orders can be routed to other marketplaces via contracted brokers for execution if a better displayed price exists elsewhere.  See "Regulatory Responsibilities - Options Intermarket Linkage Plan." Details on our technological capabilities, as well as key systems offerings available to customers, are described in "Technology."

Pricing

Each of our exchanges establishes a fee schedule that, among other things, establishes the transaction fee for buying or selling options or futures contracts on the exchange. CBOE utilizes a pricing model in which transaction fees are charged to most professionals, including market-makers, but are not charged for most customer orders.  CBOE also has a volume incentive program, or VIP, which pays credits to permit holders for executing certain types and levels of business at the exchange.

In 2012 and January 2013, C2 used a maker-taker pricing model for multiply-listed options products in which orders that take liquidity from the marketplace are charged a transaction fee and orders that provide liquidity to the marketplace receive a rebate. In February 2013, C2 modified its pricing model for equity options to provide that market-maker, professional, broker-dealer and firm transactions would be charged fees based on the width of the markets.

CFE utilizes a pricing model in which transaction fees vary depending on the type of market participant on whose behalf a trade is made and on whether the trade is executed through CFE’s trading system, is a day trade, or is a block trade or exchange of contract for related position transaction. CFE also offers a Day Trade Fee Program that provides rebates on trades that qualify for the program.

Competition

CBOE is the largest options exchange in the U.S. based on both total contract volume and notional value of contracts traded. The market share for all options traded on U.S. exchanges over the past five years for CBOE and C2, combined, has ranged from26.4%to33.3%annually. For2012, our market share was27.8%.

The U.S. options industry is extremely competitive and the competition has intensified. We expect this trend to continue.  We compete with a number of entities on several different fronts, including the cost, quality and speed of our trade execution, the functionality and ease of use of our trading platform, the range of our products and services, our technological innovation and adaption and our reputation. There are nine other U.S. options exchanges that are our primary direct competitors, including ISE, NYSE Arca, NYSE Amex and NASDAQ OMX PHLX.  We also compete against futures exchanges trading similar products and other financial institutions that write over-the-counter derivatives. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act ("Dodd-Frank") legislation creates a category of marketplaces called a Swap Execution Facility ("SEF"). SEFs will serve as marketplaces for the matching of swap transactions. We expect to compete against futures exchanges and SEFs to attract OTC participants.

Most options on equities and exchange-traded products, or ETPs, listed and traded on CBOE and C2 are also listed and traded on other U.S. options exchanges. The options exchanges have been introducing new pricing models over the last few years in order to attempt to attract additional trades to their exchanges.  These pricing models include traditional pricing, maker-taker, and ownership benefits.  See "Trends - Cost Competition."

Our competitive challenge is to convince broker-dealers to route options orders to our exchanges rather than to our competitors and to convince liquidity providers to concentrate their market making activity on our exchanges. This is particularly true with respect to options on individual equity securities and ETPs, which tend to be traded on multiple exchanges. We compete through a variety of methods, including:

•Offering market participants an efficient, transparent and liquid marketplace for trading options both through traditional open outcry methods and through our electronic platform, CBOE Command;



•Offering a fee schedule that both attracts order flow and provides incentives to liquidity providers;

•Providing advanced technology that offers broad functionality, significant bandwidth, fast execution, ease of use, scalability, reliability and security;

•Offering participants access to a broad array of products and services, including proprietary products;

•Offering customers a deep, liquid market with trading mechanisms to enable potential price improvement;









•Facilitating payment for order flow through the administration of marketing fees;

•Offering market participants potential participation rights for order flow that they direct or cause to be directed to our exchanges; and

•Providing brokers and their customers with a complete source of information on options as well as extensive options education.

Technology

CBOE Command, our in-house developed technology, supports trading on multiple exchanges: CBOE, C2, CFE, CBSX and OneChicago, LLC.  The technology supports different products, different market models as well as multiple matching algorithms. As mentioned above, CBOE is a hybrid exchange, while C2, CFE and CBSX are fully electronic. We have licensed our technology for use by CBSX, an all-electronic stock trading facility of CBOE, and OneChicago, an all-electronic exchange for trading single-stock futures.

CBOE Command

On CBOE, CBOE Command is the platform for our Hybrid trading system, which was launched in 2003. See "Market Model -- Hybrid Trading Model." CBOE Command provides features of screen-based and floor-based trading in what we believe is a "best of both worlds" market model.

CBOE Command is a Java application with an infrastructure designed for high performance and low latency and is easily scalable for capacity and throughput. Peak message traffic rates are 1.0 million transactions per second. The architecture and implementation of the system allows for flexibility in allocation algorithms, a fully integrated complex order book and several auction mechanisms.

The platform supports a quote-driven market model where liquidity providers have quoting obligations. Market-makers, DPMs, eDPMs and LMMs typically stream at least hundreds of millions of quotes into CBOE Command each day. To facilitate liquidity providers, CBOE Command has a number of internal risk controls, including Quote Lock, Quote Risk Monitor and User Input Monitor.

CBOE Command allows for a quick introduction of different types of derivative and securities products, including options, futures, options on futures and stock products. In addition, our system facilitates different trading models through the use of alternative configurations, allowing us to provide both hybrid and fully electronic market models.

In 2012, CBOE launched CFLEX 2.0, built on the CBOE Command platform. Since the new system is part of CBOE Command, users can interact with FLEX orders in the same way as they do standard options. Also in 2012, CBOE moved its primary data center from the CBOE building in Chicago to a data center location in New Jersey to eliminate distance latency.  The move also introduced enhanced versions of firm interface protocols and a complete operating system upgrade of CBOE Command from Solaris to Redhat Linux.

Trade Match, Ticker Plant and Market Data

The Trade Match system is built on the same technology as CBOE Command. It matches trades and sends them to The Options Clearing Corporation ("OCC"), which settles and clears the trades. The Trade Match system provides matched trade information and post-trade allocation functionality to clearing firms and brokers through a web-based interface and an application programming interface, or API.

Both incoming and outgoing market data is vital to the operations of our exchanges and to market participants.  Our ticker plant, XTP, takes in market data feeds from OPRA, CTS/CQS, NASDAQ, the CME Group, Inc. and other sources and disseminates the data internally to other systems on a publish/subscribe basis. XTP's most recent processing peak was 5.0 million messages per second, or MPS, inbound from OPRA, with over 14.6 billion messages per day. XTP and our Index Calculation systems allow CBOE to calculate numerous different types of indexes and add new ones as required.

Market data is sent to OPRA, CTS/CQS, NASDAQ data vendors and to Trading Permit Holders via our APIs, including FIX and CMi, CBOE Financial Network and CSM. CSM was introduced in 2011 and provides a high speed multicast feed to users of market data. In 2013, we plan to implement a high-speed book depth feed in addition to our top-of-the-market feed being sent through CSM.

Disaster Recovery









We operate and maintain disaster recovery facilities that essentially replicate the systems available in our primary data center for CBOE and CFE.  In the event of an interruption at our primary facility, backup systems should be available by the open on the next business day.

Clearing System

The OCC acts as the issuer, counterparty and guarantor for all options contracts traded on our options exchanges and other U.S. options exchanges. Upon execution of an option trade, we transmit to the OCC a record of all trading activity for clearing and settlement purposes. The OCC fulfills these same functions for futures products traded on the CFE.

Market Data

Our markets generate valuable information regarding the prices of our products and the trading activity in those markets. Market data relating to price and size of market quotations and the price and size of trades is collected and consolidated by OPRA. OPRA disseminates the information to vendors who redistribute the data to brokers, investors and other persons or entities that use our markets or that monitor general economic conditions. After costs are deducted, the fees collected are distributed among exchange participants based on their cleared transactions pursuant to the OPRA Plan. As of December2012, our market data was displayed on approximately 157,000 terminals worldwide. See "Regulatory Environment and Compliance" for further information on OPRA.

Through our subsidiary, MDX, we are expanding our market data offerings. MDX is a market data vendor providing information on specialized indexes, time and sales information and specialized reports of historical market data.



Regulatory Environment and Compliance

The following discussion covers the more significant areas of regulation of us by the SEC and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC).

Recent Developments

Laws and regulations regarding our business are frequently modified or changed, including in response to adverse financial conditions, new products, competition or at the request of market participants. The following is a summary of recent regulatory developments that may impact our business.

Limit Up-Limit Down and Market-wide Circuit Breakers

In May 2012, the SEC approved a limit up-limit down plan intended to prevent trades in Regulation NMS stocks from occurring outside of specific price bands to reduce market volatility. The bands will be set around the average reference price of the security over the immediately preceding five-minute period. In certain cases, a trading pause in a stock can occur pursuant to the plan. While only applying to stocks, the plan will likely impact options trading as option prices are derived in part from underlying stock prices. At the same time as the limit up-limit down plan announcement, the SEC also announced revisions to the market-wide circuit breakers. The revisions reduced the market decline percentage thresholds for triggering a circuit breaker, shortened the duration of trading halts, reduced the number of trigger time periods, replaced the Dow Jones Industrial Average with the S&P as the pricing reference, and increased the frequency of the calculation of the thresholds to daily. Both of these plans are scheduled to be implemented by all U.S. exchanges in the first half of 2013.  CFE will also be implementing the revised market-wide circuit breakers.

Consolidated Audit Trail (CAT)

In 2012, the SEC directed the self-regulatory organizations, or SROs, through a new rule, to submit a plan to create, implement and maintain a consolidated audit trail (CAT), which would serve as a comprehensive audit trail of orders that will allow regulators to efficiently and accurately track all activity in Regulation NMS securities in the U.S. markets.  The rule requires, among other things, that, upon implementation of a plan, data be reported to a central repository by 8 a.m. Eastern time the following day by each exchange and broker dealer.  We are working with the other SROs to develop the plan to implement a consolidated audit trail, which is required to detail technological and compliance aspects of the plan and the costs to implement the plan, among other details.  The SROs are required to submit the plan by April 26, 2013, although the SROs have requested an extension under December 2013, with a phased implementation over the three years following the effectiveness of the plan.  The exchanges and their participants are likely to incur significant costs related to the implementation of the consolidated audit trail requirements.









CFTC Core Principles

Dodd-Frank amended the core principles with which designated contract markets like CFE must comply under the Commodity Exchange Act.  In 2012, the CFTC adopted a number of new regulations applicable to designated contract markets in order to implement the amended core principles.  These regulations related to, among other things, compliance with rules, prevention of market disruption, financial integrity of transactions, disciplinary procedures, system safeguards and financial resources.  As a result, CFE implemented a number of new rules, policies and procedures in relation to these new requirements.

Agency Rulemaking Areas

In addition to the above identified areas, the SEC has been directed under Dodd-Frank to implement many new rules, both alone and in conjunction with the CFTC.  These areas include portfolio margining and swap clearing and execution.

Finally, the SEC has proposed rules, including option fee caps and banning flash orders, that it has not acted upon.  While we do not expect the SEC to take action with respect to option fee caps or banning flash orders, as these proposals are dated, if one or both of the proposals were adopted, they could cause significant changes to our market that may reduce our revenue per contract or reduce the volume of trading on our exchanges.

Compliance

Securities Industry-CBOE and C2

Federal securities laws have established a two-tiered system for the regulation of securities markets and market participants. The first tier consists of the SEC, which has primary responsibility for enforcing federal securities laws. The second tier consists of Self-Regulatory Organization ("SROs"), which are non-governmental entities that must register with and are regulated by the SEC. CBOE and C2 are SROs, each registered under Section 6 of the Exchange Act as a "national securities exchange" and are subject to oversight by the SEC. CBSX, which is not an SRO, is a stock trading facility of CBOE.  As a facility, CBOE is responsible for the regulation of the CBSX marketplace and the following discussion of CBOE's responsibilities includes the responsibility to provide regulation for CBSX and CBOE's other facilities.

SROs in the securities industry are an essential component of the regulatory scheme of the Exchange Act for providing fair and orderly markets and protecting investors. To be registered as a national securities exchange, an exchange must successfully undergo an application and review process with the SEC before beginning operations. Among other things, the SEC must determine that the exchange has the capacity to carry out the purposes of the Exchange Act. An SRO must comply with the Exchange Act and have the ability to enforce compliance by its members and persons associated with its members with the provisions of the Exchange Act, the rules and regulations thereunder and the rules of the exchange.

In general, an SRO is responsible for regulating its members through the adoption and enforcement of rules governing the business conduct of its members. The rules of the exchange must also assure fair representation of its members in the selection of its directors and administration of its affairs and, among other things, provide that one or more directors be representative of issuers or investors and not be associated with a member of the exchange or with a broker or dealer. Additionally, the rules of the exchange must be adequate to ensure fair dealing and to protect investors and may not impose any burden on competition not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Exchange Act.

As registered national securities exchanges, virtually all facets of our CBOE and C2 operations are subject to the SEC's oversight, as prescribed by the Exchange Act. The Exchange Act and the rules thereunder impose on us many regulatory and operational responsibilities, including the day-to-day responsibilities for market and broker-dealer oversight. Furthermore, as SROs, CBOE and C2 are potentially subject to regulatory or legal action by the SEC or other interested parties. The SEC also has broad enforcement powers to censure, fine, issue cease-and-desist orders, prohibit us from engaging in some of our businesses, suspend or revoke our designation as a registered securities exchange or to remove or censure any of our officers or directors who violate applicable laws or regulations.

As part of its regulatory oversight, the SEC conducts periodic reviews and inspections of exchanges, and CBOE and C2 have been subject to such routine reviews and inspections. To the extent such reviews and inspections result in regulatory or other changes, we may be required to modify the manner in which we conduct our business, which may adversely affect our business. We collect certain fees derived from our regulatory function and fines in connection with our disciplinary proceedings.  Under the rules of each of our options exchanges, as required by the SEC, any revenue derived from the regulatory fees and fines cannot be used for non-regulatory purposes.

CBOE and C2 are also subject to the record keeping requirements of Section 17 of the Exchange Act, including the requirement pursuant to Section 17(b) of the Exchange Act to make certain records available to the SEC for examination.









Section 19 of the Exchange Act also provides that we must submit to the SEC proposed changes to any of our exchanges' rules, including revisions of their certificates of incorporation and bylaws. The SEC will typically publish the proposal for public comment, following which the SEC may approve or disapprove the proposal, as it deems appropriate. The SEC's action is designed to ensure that the CBOE's and C2's Rules and procedures are consistent with the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations under the Exchange Act.  Certain categories of rule changes, like fee changes, can be effective on filing, but the SEC retains the ability to suspend such filings within a prescribed period of time.

CBOE Holdings

Futures Industry-CFE

The operations of CFE are subject to regulation by the CFTC under the Commodity Exchange Act. The Commodity Exchange Act generally requires that futures trading in the United States be conducted on a commodity exchange designated as a contract market by the CFTC under the act. The Commodity Exchange Act and CFTC regulations establish criteria for an exchange to be designated as a contract market on which futures and futures options contracts may be traded. Designation as a contract market for the trading of a specified futures contract is non-exclusive. This means that the CFTC may designate additional exchanges as contract markets for trading the same or similar contracts.

CFE is a designated contract market that is subject to the oversight of the CFTC under its principles-based approach and to a variety of ongoing regulatory and reporting responsibilities under the Commodity Exchange Act. CFE has surveillance and compliance operations and procedures to monitor and enforce compliance by trading privilege holders with CFE rules. If we fail to comply with applicable laws, rules or regulations, we may be subject to censure, fines, cease-and-desist orders, suspension of our business, removal of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of our designations as a contract market and derivatives clearing organization.

The National Futures Association ("NFA") performs many of these functions for CFE pursuant to a Regulatory Services Agreement with CFE. CFE retains overall responsibility for the regulation of its marketplace. CFE also remains responsible for bringing disciplinary actions against Trading Privilege Holders, including the ability to issue fines in the case of serious rule violations. In the case of financially distressed Trading Privilege Holders, CFE may take various emergency actions to protect customers, other Trading Privilege Holders and CFE. CFE is also a party to cooperative and regulatory information sharing agreements with other SROs and is a member of the Intermarket Surveillance Group.

Dodd-Frank amended the core principles with which designated contract markets like CFE must comply under the Commodity Exchange Act. In 2012, the CFTC adopted a number of new regulations applicable to designated contract markets in order to implement the amended core principles. These regulations relate to, among other things, compliance with rules, prevention of market disruption, financial integrity of transactions, disciplinary procedures, system safeguards, and financial resources. As a result, CFE implemented a number of new rules, policies and procedures in relation to these new requirements.



Regulatory Responsibilities

Our options exchanges are responsible for assessing the compliance of their Trading Permit Holders with the respective exchange's rules and the applicable rules of the SEC. The main activities that the exchanges engage in to measure compliance with these rules include: (1) the review of surveillance exception reports designed to detect violations of exchange trading rules; (2) the review of surveillance exception reports designed to detect possible manipulation and violations of other SEC rules; (3) the further investigation of matters deemed to be problematic upon review of the exception reports or matters deemed to be problematic as a result of examinations; (4) the investigation of complaints about possible rule violations brought by









customers, members or other SROs; and (5) the examination of CBOE and C2 Trading Permit Holders for compliance with rules such as those related to net capital, books and records, market access and other matters related to the Trading Permit Holders' exchange business function. As further described below, each option exchange is also responsible for reviewing its Trading Permit Holders' activities related to the conduct of business directly with public customers, or sales practice. We have delegated the responsibility to conduct sales practice examinations for options to FINRA, except that we retain responsibility for some of the sales practice examinations of Trading Permit Holders that are not also members of FINRA or another U.S. securities exchange.

Section 17(d) of the Exchange Act and the related Exchange Act rules permit SROs to allocate certain regulatory responsibilities to avoid duplicative oversight and regulation. Under Exchange Act Rule 17d-1, the SEC designates one SRO to be the Designated Examining Authority ("DEA") for each broker-dealer that is a member of more than one SRO. The DEA is responsible for the regulatory oversight of the financial responsibility aspects of that broker-dealer. We are the DEA for many of our members.

Exchange Act Rule 17d-2 permits SROs to enter into agreements, commonly called Rule 17d-2 agreements, which are approved by the SEC and concern the enforcement of rules applicable to all of those SROs and relating to members those SROs have in common. We have entered into Rule 17d-2 agreements under which FINRA is allocated responsibility for enforcing rules related to options sales practices with respect to CBOE and C2 Trading Permit Holders and insider trading rules and certain other rules with respect to CBSX Trading Permit Holders. We have entered into another Rule 17d-2 agreement that allocates responsibility to each SRO for ensuring that their allocated common members complied with rules governing expiring exercise declarations, options position limits and large options position reporting and position adjustments.  Finally, we have entered into a Rule 17d-2 agreement that allocates certain responsibilities under Regulation NMS to a market participant's DEA.

The SEC approved a national market system plan named the Options Regulatory Surveillance Authority Plan ("ORSA Plan") with the purpose of permitting the U.S. securities options exchanges to act jointly in the administration, operation and maintenance of a regulatory system for the surveillance, investigation and detection of the unlawful use of undisclosed, material information in trading in one or more of their markets. Through the sharing of the costs of these regulatory activities and the sharing of the regulatory information generated under the ORSA Plan, the ORSA Plan is intended to enhance the effectiveness and efficiency with which the exchanges regulate their respective markets and the national market system for options and to avoid duplication of certain regulatory efforts. The ORSA Policy Committee delegated the operation of the surveillance and investigative facility contemplated by the ORSA Plan to CBOE. The exchanges have entered into a Regulatory Services Agreement with CBOE, as service provider, pursuant to which CBOE performs certain regulatory and surveillance functions under the ORSA Plan and uses its automated insider trading surveillance system to perform these functions on behalf of the exchanges.

CBOE has entered into Regulatory Services Agreements with other exchanges under which CBOE provides certain regulatory services to those exchanges.  CBOE is currently providing service to two exchanges under Regulatory Services Agreements.

In order to ensure market integrity, we extensively regulate and monitor our Trading Permit Holders trading activities. Providing effective regulation is important for attracting and retaining the confidence and participation of market-makers, broker-dealers and institutional and retail investors.

We expend considerable time, financial resources and effort to ensure that the exchanges' rules and regulations conform to regulatory best practices within the securities exchange industry and within the regulatory regime overseen by the SEC, our primary regulator. In order to support our efforts and those of our market participants to comply with applicable law and our option exchange rules, we have developed our own automated market surveillance systems to monitor market activity on our option exchanges and across U.S. options markets.

As part of the self-regulatory process, disciplinary matters, other than minor matters covered by our Minor Rule Violation Plan, are reviewed by our Business Conduct Committee, which includes both market participants and public representatives. We are also a participant in the Intermarket Surveillance Group ("ISG"). ISG is an information-sharing cooperative governed by a written agreement that provides for a comprehensive surveillance sharing arrangement.  In addition to the agreement for confidential information sharing, the ISG provides a framework for the coordination of regulatory efforts among exchanges trading securities, commodity futures and related products to address potential intermarket manipulations and trading abuses.  There are approximately 52 ISG member organizations worldwide.

We collect certain fees derived from our regulatory function and fines in connection with our disciplinary proceedings.  Under the rules of each of our options exchanges, as required by the SEC, any revenue derived from the regulatory fees and fines cannot be used for non-regulatory purposes.









OPRA Plan, CTA Plan and NASDAQ Unlisted Trading Privileges Plan

CBOE and C2 are member exchanges in OPRA, a limited liability company. All options exchanges are members of OPRA. The OPRA limited liability agreement sets forth a system for reporting options information that is administered by the member exchanges through OPRA, consisting of representatives of the member exchanges. OPRA is the designated securities information processor for market information that is generated through the trading of exchange-listed securities options in the U.S., and it disseminates certain core trading information, such as last sale reports and quotations. We also participate in the Consolidated Tape Association, or CTA, the Consolidated Quotation Plan, or CQ Plan, and the NASDAQ Unlisted Trading Privileges Plan, which perform analogous services for the U.S. equities markets. NYSE Technologies, formerly the Securities Industry Automation Corporation, acts as the "processor" for OPRA, CTA and the CQ Plan.  NASDAQ acts as the processor for the NASDAQ Unlisted Trading Plan.

Options Intermarket Linkage Plan

We are a party to the Options Order Protection and Locked/Crossed Market Plan, known as the Options Intermarket Linkage Plan, which is designed to facilitate the routing of orders between exchanges in furtherance of a national market system. The principal purposes of the plan are to promote price protection and to assure that brokers may execute investors' orders at the best market price, the "National Best Bid and Offer" ("NBBO"). The plan requires price protection of an exchange's best displayed bid or offer when the bid or offer is at the NBBO.  Under the plan, direct exchange-to-exchange access through broker-dealers is used to transmit intermarket sweep orders similar to sweep orders that are available in the stock market under Regulation NMS.  Undisplayed bids and offers and bids and offers at prices that are inferior to an exchange's best bid or offer do not receive protection under this plan.

Options Listing Procedures Plan and Symbology Plan

We are a party to the Options Listing Procedures Plan, which sets forth the procedures that the options exchanges must follow to list new options. We are also a party to the National Market System Plan for the selection and reservation of securities symbols.



Intellectual Property

We own or have rights to a number of intellectual property assets, including trademarks, service marks, domain names, trade names, copyrights, trade secrets and patents. While the majority of our intellectual property is protected under U.S. law, we have many intellectual property assets protected by the laws in Europe, Asia and other parts of the world. We license some intellectual property assets to other entities. While we consider our intellectual property to be valued assets, we do not believe that our competitive position is wholly dependent on intellectual property protection. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights, while respecting the legitimate intellectual property rights of others.



Employees

As ofDecember 31, 2012, we employed605individuals. Of these employees,235were involved in systems development or operations,140were involved in direct support of trading operations and116were involved in regulatory activities. The remaining114personnel provide business development, product development, education, financial, legal, planning and research, administrative and managerial support.

We have eight building engineers that are covered by a collective bargaining agreement, which expires on May 31, 2015, with the International Union of Operating Engineers Local 399, AFL-CIO. Management believes that we have strong relationships with our employees and we have never experienced a work stoppage.











Executive Officers of CBOE Holdings

Set forth below is information regarding our executive officers and certain other key employees:

NameAgePositionWilliam J. Brodsky69Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerEdward T. Tilly49President and Chief Operating OfficerAlan J. Dean58Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and TreasurerRichard G. DuFour69Executive Vice President of Corporate Planning and DevelopmentJoanne Moffic-Silver60Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate SecretaryGerald T. O'Connell61Executive Vice President and Chief Information OfficerEdward L. Provost60Executive Vice President and Chief Business Development OfficerDavid S. Reynolds59Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer

William J. Brodsky.Mr. Brodsky is Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. He has served in that capacity since 1997. In December 2012, we announced that Mr. Brodsky would be transitioning to serve as Executive Chairman effective following the 2013 annual meeting of stockholders. Prior to joining the Company in 1997, Mr. Brodsky was president and chief executive officer of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange from 1985 to 1997. Mr. Brodsky is a director of Integrys Energy Group, Inc. and its predecessors. He also is the past chairman of the World Federation of Exchanges and past chairman of the International Options Markets Association. He is a member of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York's International Advisory Committee. Mr. Brodsky also serves on the Kellogg School of Management Advisory Council and as a trustee of Syracuse University. He is chairman of the board of directors of Northwestern Memorial Hospital. Mr. Brodsky holds an A.B. degree and a J.D. degree from Syracuse University and is a member of the bar in Illinois and New York.

Edward T. Tilly.Mr. Tilly is President and Chief Operating Officer. He has served in that capacity since November  2011. In December 2012, we announced that Mr. Tilly would be transitioning to serve as Chief Executive Officer effective following the 2013 annual meeting of stockholders.  He served as Executive Vice Chairman from August 2006 until November 2011. He was a member of CBOE from 1989 until 2006, and served as Member Vice Chairman from 2004 through July 2006. Mr. Tilly is the chairman of CBOE Futures Exchange and serves on the board of directors of the OCC. He holds a B.A. degree in Economics from Northwestern University.

Alan J. Dean.Mr. Dean is Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer. He has served in that capacity since 1988 and has been employed at the Company in the financial area since 1979. Mr. Dean serves on the board of directors of The Institute for Transfusion Medicine. He is a CPA, and he holds a B.S. degree in Accounting from Western Illinois University and an M.B.A. from Northwestern University's Kellogg Graduate School of Management.

Richard G. DuFour.Mr. DuFour is Executive Vice President of Corporate Planning and Development. He has served in that capacity since 1999 and has been employed at the Company since 1980. He serves on the board of OneChicago and as treasurer of the International Options Markets Association. Mr. DuFour is a director of the Lincoln Park Renewal Corporation and IPXI Holdings, LLC. Mr. DuFour holds a B.B.A. degree from the University of Notre Dame and an M.B.A. from the University of Michigan.

Joanne Moffic-Silver.Ms. Moffic-Silver is Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary. She has served in that capacity since 1997 and has been employed at the Company since 1980. She is currently a member of the board of advisors of Northwestern University School of Law. Ms. Moffic-Silver received her B.A. degree with high honors and was elected a member of Phi Beta Kappa from the University of Wisconsin-Madison. Ms. Moffic-Silver received her J.D. degree with honors from Northwestern University School of Law.

Gerald T. O'Connell.Mr. O'Connell is Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer. He has served in that capacity since 1993 and has been employed at the Company since 1984. Mr. O'Connell serves on the board of directors of the CBOE Stock Exchange. He holds a B.S. degree in Mathematics from Lewis University and a J.D. degree from John Marshall Law School.

Edward L. Provost.Mr. Provost is Executive Vice President and Chief Business Development Officer. In December 2012, we announced that Mr. Provost would become President and Chief Operating Officer following the 2013 annual meeting of stockholders.  He has served as the head of our Business Development Division since 2000 and has been employed at the Company since 1975.  He holds a B.B.A. in Finance from Loyola University of Chicago and an M.B.A. from the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business.











David S. Reynolds.Mr. Reynolds is Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer. He has served in that capacity since May 2009. Prior to that, Mr. Reynolds was with Hudson Highland Group, Inc., where he served in various roles including vice president, controller and chief accounting officer. From February 2005 to February 2007, Mr. Reynolds was vice president, controller and chief accounting officer of Bally Total Fitness Corporation. Prior to that, he spent twenty-two years in various financial roles at Comdisco, Inc., rising to senior vice president and controller. Mr. Reynolds serves on the board of directors of the CBOE Stock Exchange.  Mr. Reynolds began his career at Ernst & Young. Mr. Reynolds is a certified public accountant and a certified cash manager. He is a graduate of Lehigh University where he obtained an M.B.A. and a B.S. in Finance.



Seasonality

In the securities industry, quarterly revenue fluctuations are common and are due primarily to seasonal variations in trading volumes, competition and technological and regulatory changes. Generally, we have historically experienced relatively higher trading volume during the first and second quarters and lower trading volumes in the third and fourth quarters. However, such seasonality may also be impacted by general market conditions or other events that cause market volatility, such as domestic and international uncertainties surrounding certain political events.



Available Information

Our website is www.cboe.com. The Company files annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC under the Exchange Act. The Company makes available, free of charge, on its website its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. The Company's reports filed with, or furnished to, the SEC are also available on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov.

In addition, we have posted on our website the charters for our (i) Audit Committee, (ii) Compensation Committee, and (iii) Nominating and Governance Committee, as well as our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and Corporate Governance Guidelines. We will provide a copy of these documents without charge to stockholders upon written request to Investor Relations, Attention Ms. Debbie Koopman, CBOE Holdings Inc., 400 South LaSalle Street, Chicago, Illinois 60605.



