Item 1.Business

Overview

CBOE Holdings, Inc. is the holding company for Chicago Board Options Exchange, Incorporated, C2 Options Exchange, Incorporated,
CBOE Futures Exchange, LLC and other subsidiaries. CBOE Holdings builds on the legacy of CBOE, the creator of listed options and the largest U.S. options exchange.

The
primary business of the Company is the operation of markets for the execution of transactions in exchange-traded options. The market for exchange-traded options has increased
dramatically since their introduction by the CBOE in 1973. In 1974, the first full year of trading, CBOE traded over 5.6 million contracts. In 1983, ten years after its inception, CBOE traded
over 82 million contracts. By 1993, the CBOE volume had grown to over 140 million contracts. In 2003, the CBOE traded over 284 million contracts. In 2010, our most recent fiscal
year, CBOE volume had grown to 1.12 billion contracts.

The
following chart illustrates total options trading volume across the different categories of products traded at the Company for the periods indicated:

Annual Options Contract Volume20102009200820072006Equities572,688,137634,710,477604,024,956500,964,713390,657,577Indexes269,989,511222,787,514259,499,726230,527,970157,596,679Exchange-traded funds276,362,700277,266,218329,830,388212,979,241126,481,092Total1,119,040,3481,134,764,2091,193,355,070944,471,924674,735,348

The
Company's markets are primarily for the trading of listed options contracts on three broad product categories: the stocks of individual corporations (equity options), various market
indexes (index options) and securitized baskets of like assets, such as stocks, bonds or commodities (exchange-traded funds). We offer trading access for listed options from electronic platforms and
on our trading floor in Chicago. The integration of electronic trading markets and traditional open outcry markets into a single market is offered through our Hybrid trading model operating on a
proprietary technology platform known as CBOEdirect. CBOEdirectis the technology platform for all of
our exchanges.

Through
CFE, we offer futures and options on futures on the VIX. In 2010, CFE volume was 4.4 million contracts.

Our
operating revenues are primarily driven by the number of contracts traded on our exchanges. In order to increase the volume of contracts traded on our exchanges, we strive to develop
and promote contracts designed to satisfy the trading, hedging and risk-management needs of our market participants. We also derive revenue from fees collected for access to our exchanges
and from the sale of market data information.

Our
principal executive offices are located at 400 South LaSalle Street, Chicago Illinois 60605, and our telephone number is (312) 786-5600.

Our
web site iswww.CBOE.com. Information contained on or linked through our web site is not incorporated by reference into this annual
report. You should not consider information contained on our web site as part of this annual report.









History

CBOE was founded in 1973 as a not-for-profit, non-stock corporation. CBOE was the first organized
marketplace for the trading of standardized, listed options on equity securities. In 2004, CBOE began to operate a futures exchange, CFE. CBOE adopted a for-profit approach to its
business, including strategic initiatives aimed at optimizing trading volume, efficiency and liquidity, in January 2006. CBOE Holdings was incorporated in the State of Delaware on August 15,
2006. In June 2010, CBOE demutualized (see "Restructuring Transaction") and CBOE, C2 and CFE
became wholly-owned subsidiaries of CBOE Holdings. CBOE Holdings completed its initial public offering of its unrestricted common stock in June 2010. On October 29, 2010, C2, the Company's new
all-electronic exchange, initiated operations.

Restructuring Transaction

On June 18, 2010, CBOE converted from a non-stock corporation owned by its Members into a stock corporation that is
a wholly-owned subsidiary of CBOE Holdings. In the restructuring transaction, each CBOE regular membership (an "Exchange Seat") owned by a CBOE Member on June 18, 2010 converted into 80,000
shares of Class A common stock of CBOE Holdings. Seat owners received a total of 74,400,000 shares of Class A common stock of CBOE Holdings in the restructuring transaction. In addition,
certain persons who satisfied the qualification requirements set forth in the Stipulation of Settlement, dated August 20, 2008 (the "Settlement Agreement"), among CBOE and other parties to the
action entitledCME Group Inc. et al. v.Chicago Board Options Exchange Incorporated(the
"Delaware Action"), received a total of 16,333,380 shares of Class B common stock of CBOE Holdings on June 18, 2010. Pursuant to the Settlement Agreement, qualifying members of the
plaintiff class received a cash payment of $300.0 million.

Immediately
following the issuance of the Class A and Class B common stock, the board of directors of CBOE Holdings declared and paid a special dividend of $1.25 per
outstanding share of Class A and Class B common stock, or $113.4 million in the aggregate.

The
initial public offering of 13,455,000 shares of unrestricted common stock, including 2,085,774 shares of unrestricted common stock sold by the selling stockholders, for a price of
$29.00 per share, was completed on June 18, 2010. Net proceeds to the Company after deducting underwriter's fees and commissions and other related expenses were $301.2 million. Costs
directly associated with the Company's initial public offering were recorded as a reduction of the gross proceeds received in arriving at the amount recorded in additional paid-in capital.

Upon
consummation of the initial public offering, shares of Class A and Class B common stock not converted into unrestricted common and sold in the initial public offering
automatically converted into 44,323,803 shares of Class A-1 common stock and 44,323,803 shares of Class A-2 common stock.

The
restructuring transaction, completed on June 18, 2010, converted CBOE from a non-stock company with Members into a wholly-owned subsidiary of CBOE Holdings, a
corporation with stockholders. Members that owned an Exchange Seat became stockholders of CBOE Holdings. Following the restructuring transaction, access to CBOE, C2 and CFE was made available through
trading permits rather than through the ownership of memberships (see "Trading Permit Holders").

Tender Offers

On November 24, 2010, the Company completed two concurrent tender offers for 5,983,713 shares of Class A-1
common stock and 5,983,713 shares of Class A-2 common stock at a purchase price of $25.00 per share. The purpose of the tender offers was to allow Class A-1 and
A-2 stockholders to obtain liquidity for a certain portion of their shares. Subsequent to the closing of the tender offers and automatic conversion of Class A-1 common stock, an
additional 31,723 shares of Unrestricted common











stock
and 18,746 shares of Class A-2 common stock were purchased by the Company due to a clerical adjustment. The net proceeds received from our initial public offering were used to
purchase the shares of Class A-1 and A-2 common stock in the tender offers.

Conversion of A-1 and A-2 common stock

On December 15, 2010, 38,340,090 issued and outstanding shares of Class A-1 common stock automatically
converted into one share of unrestricted common stock. Each issued and outstanding share of Class A-2 common stock will automatically convert into one share of unrestricted common
stock on June 13, 2011.

Industry

Our primary business is part of the large and growing global derivatives industry. Derivatives are financial contracts whose value is
derived from some other underlying asset or reference value. These underlying assets and reference values include individual stocks, stock indexes, debt instruments, interest rates, currencies,
commodities and various benchmarks related to trading and investment strategies. In recent years, derivatives have also been developed on economic indicators and "artificial" assets such as pollution
rights. The global derivatives industry includes both exchanges and a large over-the-counter market. The most common types of derivatives are
options, futures and swap contracts. These products allow for various types of risk to be isolated and transferred.

Exchange-Traded Options and Futures

Options represent a contract giving the buyer the right, but not the obligation, to buy or sell a specified quantity of an underlying
security or index at a specific price for a specific period of time. Options provide investors a means for hedging, speculation and income generation, while at the same time providing leverage with
respect to the underlying asset. Options are traded privately between two parties (know as "over-the-counter" options), as well as traded on U.S. securities exchanges. The vast
majority of derivatives traded on U.S. securities exchanges are options on individual equities, market indexes and ETFs. Over-the-counter options that are traded include
options on individual equities, ETFs and indexes, including options on the S&P 500 index.

The
buyer and seller of a futures contract agree on a price today for a product to be delivered and paid for in the future. Each contract specifies the quantity of the item and the time
of delivery or payment. An option on a futures contract is a right, but not an obligation, to buy or sell a futures contract at a specified price on or before a certain expiration date.

Trading

Until 2000, trading in options products on U.S. options exchanges traditionally occurred primarily on physical trading floors in areas
called "pits" through an auction process known as "open outcry," which refers to face-to-face trading. Over the past decade, electronic access has allowed exchange
participants, including those at CBOE, to provide electronic bids and offers without being physically present on the trading floor. Now, all of the U.S. options exchanges, either exclusively or in
combination with open outcry trading, provide electronic trading platforms that allow participants to submit bids, offers and orders directly into the exchange's trading system. As a result, many
liquidity providers now operate remotely, away from the physical trading floors, and the majority of options trading volume is executed electronically.

In
the listed options market, there are currently options contracts covering approximately 3,300 underlying stocks, ETFs and indexes. The presence of dedicated liquidity providers,
including both specialists and market-makers, is a key feature of the options markets. Specialists and market-makers provide continuous bids and offers for substantially all listed option series. In
return for these











commitments,
specialists and market-makers receive margin exemptions as well as other incentives such as participation rights and fee incentives.

Trends

Consolidation

Competitive pressures and the advantages of large scale operations have provided the strategic rationale for consolidation among
exchanges. The migration to stockholder structures and for-profit business models has facilitated a number of such mergers and acquisitions. For example, NYSE Euronext now owns both NYSE
Arca and NYSE Amex. Deutsche Borse has acquired the International Securities Exchange, and NASDAQ OMX owns both the Philadelphia Stock Exchange ("PHLX") and NASDAQ Options Market ("NOM"). In February
2011, NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Borse announced they had agreed to combine their business, and the TMX Group Inc. parent of the Boston Options Exchange ("BOX"), announced their intention to
merge with the London Stock Exchange Group PLC. This trend has been occurring on a global scale and can be expected to continue.

Maker-Taker Pricing Structure

Several options exchanges, including C2, utilize a different pricing model than CBOE, in which orders that take liquidity from the
marketplace are charged a transaction fee, dependent on origin type, and orders that provide liquidity to the marketplace may receive a rebate for doing so, dependent on origin type. This kind of fee
schedule, known as "maker-taker," is attractive to participants who regularly provide liquidity but not necessarily to firms representing customer orders, as those orders are disproportionately takers
of liquidity.

High Frequency Trading

High frequency trading refers to the practice of entering buy and sell orders in rapid succession, often as many as thousands of orders
per second. The strategies pursued by high frequency traders depend on sophisticated algorithms to spot trends before others can react to them and to exploit minor fluctuations in securities prices.
Its practitioners are professional traders who typically use high-speed computers co-located at exchanges with direct connections to exchange order routing systems to reduce
latency. High frequency trading has driven up trading volume on equity exchanges and is estimated to account for from 50% to 70% of stock trading. It currently plays a small, but growing role in
options markets and has led many exchanges to create a new category of market participant known as professional customer, which enables those exchanges to treat these orders differently than other
customer orders.

The
SEC is currently seeking comments on various practices related to high frequency trading to determine if these practices disadvantage long-term investors. The practices
the SEC are reviewing include co-location and market access (access to trading directly on an exchange or alternative trading system, including those providing sponsored or direct market
access to customers or other persons).

Competitive Strengths

We have established ourselves as a global leader and innovator in the options industry. We believe we are well positioned to further
enhance our leadership position through several key competitive strengths:

•Leading Brand, Reputation and Market
Position.As the world's first options exchange, CBOE's leadership role in options trading is recognized worldwide. We are one of the
largest options exchanges in the world and the largest options exchange in the U.S., based on both contract volume and notional value. Our opinions and positions on industry issues are sought by









regulators,
elected officials, industry and finance leaders and policy experts worldwide. Our website, which consists of over 70,000 pages, is the most extensive in the industry—Forbes
Magazine has named it a "Best of the Web" successively since the inception of the award in 2001.

•

Innovation and Product
Development.In addition to being the original marketplace for standardized, exchange-traded options, we created the world's first index
options and have been the source of many other innovations with respect to products, systems and market structure in the options industry.•Innovation—We work closely and collaboratively with market
participants to introduce new products and services to meet the evolving needs of the derivatives industry. We have introduced innovative products such as Index options, Long-Term Equity
Anticipation Securities ("LEAPS"), FLEX options, volatility options and, most recently, options on the S&P 500 Dividend Index. Our products, such as the CBOE S&P 500 BuyWrite Index, the
CBOE S&P 500 PutWrite Index, futures and options on VIX, and the CBOE S&P 500 Implied Correlation Index have received industry awards for innovation.•Exclusive Licenses—We have the exclusive right to list
securities options based on the S&P 500, the S&P 100 and the DJIA indexes. Many of our products based on these exclusive licenses are among the most actively traded products on CBOE and
in the industry.•Proprietary Products—We have created our own proprietary
indexes and index methodologies, including VIX, which provide benchmarks for options users, serve as the basis for exclusive products and provide us with licensing revenue.

•

Hybrid Trading
Model.Our Hybrid trading model on CBOE integrates open outcry and electronic trading into a single market. We believe that this
innovative approach offers our users more choices, a diverse pool of liquidity and the ability to execute complex strategies that may not be available on purely screen-based trading systems.

•

Leading Proprietary Technology
Platform.We own, operate and maintain our core trading and information technology and systems, and we continue to commit substantial
resources towards ongoing development and implementation of these capabilities. Market participants rely on our technology and infrastructure, which provides a high level of availability and
reliability. We believe the CBOEdirecttrading platform is among the most advanced trading platforms in the world. It can simultaneously support both
screen and floor-based trading for multiple trading models, multiple products and multiple matching algorithms. The technology underlying CBOEdirectis
designed for extremely high performance. It is built on open standards providing platform independence and is designed to be scalable for both capacity and throughput.

•

Liquidity.We support the options trading activities of Trading Permit Holders,
i.e. individuals or firms that hold trading permits (TPH organizations). We believe that this diverse pool of liquidity providers, in combination with our broad range of products, Hybrid
trading model and the CBOEdirecttrading platform, offers our users the liquid markets they require to effectively execute their trading strategies.

•

Experienced Management
Team.Our management team has extensive experience in the options industry. William J. Brodsky, our Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer, and Edward J. Joyce, our President and Chief Operating Officer, each has over 35 years of experience with exchange management and derivative products. The remaining seven members of
the senior management team have an average of over 25 years of experience in the options industry. We believe that our management team has demonstrated an ability to grow our business through
continued product









and
technological innovations and has evidenced the ability to respond to changing industry dynamics through ongoing adaptation of our market model.

Growth Strategy

Trading in derivative products has expanded at a rapid pace over the past several years as a result of a number of factors including
technological advances that have increased investor access, declining costs to users, globalization and greater understanding of the products by increasingly sophisticated market participants. The
Company is well positioned to leverage its competitive strengths to take advantage of these trends.

We
intend to further expand our business and increase our revenues and profitability by pursuing the following growth strategies:

•

Continue to Enhance Our Market Model and Trading
Platform.We recognize that the opportunity to participate in the growth of the derivative markets will be driven in great part by the
trading functionality and systems capabilities that an exchange offers to market participants. We believe that our Hybrid trading model offers flexibility to market participants, while the
CBOEdirecttrading platform offers state-of-the-art functionality, speed, performance, capacity and reliability. We
intend to use our strong in-house development capabilities and continued investment to further augment the functionality and capacity of our trading systems. In addition, on
October 29, 2010, we launched C2, a second, all-electronic options market that currently trades substantially all of the industry's leading multi-listed products. C2 operates under
a separate exchange license with its own board of directors, rules, connectivity, systems architecture and access structure.

•

Develop Innovative
Products.We intend to continue to build on our reputation as an industry innovator through the development of new and innovative
products. We intend to use licensed products and proprietary intellectual property to create exclusive products that meet the needs of the derivatives industry and enhance our brand. We anticipate
that our new and innovative products will help drive trading volumes by attracting new customers to our exchanges and expanding the array of products available to existing customers. In addition, we
believe our continuing product innovations will generate increased use of other CBOE products, in the same way that VIX and the CBOE S&P 500 BuyWrite Index have generated additional trading
activity in SPX. In 2011, we plan to list on C2 an electronically-traded version of our flagship S&P 500 Index option (SPX), which we are calling ("SPXpm.") We submitted a rule filing to the
SEC on February 28, 2011 and plan to list SPXpm upon SEC approval. Under the proposed rule change, SPXpm will be identical in structure to CBOE's traditional SPX index option product, except it
will have "p.m." settlement. We intend to broaden our customer reach by providing this elctronic, "p.m." settled version of our most actively traded index product. Our SPX index option trades
exclusively on CBOE and primarily trades in open outcry.

•

Attract Over-the-Counter Market
Participants.As a result of the 2008 financial crisis, over-the-counter market participants have been under
pressure from regulators to move much of their trading from the over-the-counter market to a centrally traded centrally cleared environment. We seek to attract participants
from the over-the-counter market and are developing strategies that target this market segment. For example, CFLEX, our internet-based, electronic system for trading FLEX
options, allows participants to customize key contract terms including strike price, exercise style and expiration dates of up to fifteen years with the administrative ease and clearing guarantees of
standardized listed options. In addition, we eliminated blackout dates for FLEX options in 2009 and implemented two pilot programs that eliminated the minimum size requirement for FLEX options and the
restriction on p.m. settlement for index options traded in FLEX.









•

Expand Service
Offerings.We believe there are significant opportunities to derive revenue from new and expanded service offerings. For example, our
subsidiary, Market Data Express, LLC ("MDX") sells historical options data, value-added proprietary information and a data-feed of certain S&P and CBOE index values to market data users.
In 2011, MDX increased its service offerings with CBOE Streaming Market ("CSM"). CSM is a high-availability, low latency streaming data feed, with data similar to market data from OPRA but also
includes complex quotes and trades, customer information and contingent information. In addition, through a set of arrangements with S&P, we permit S&P to license the Company's proprietary indexes and
index methodologies for certain purposes to securities firms and other exchanges. The Company and S&P have agreed that S&P may license one or more clearing agencies to clear OTC options based on the
S&P 500 index that meet certain criteria, and that S&P will compensate us for any transaction cleared under such a license based on the notional value of the transaction.

•

Pursue Select Strategic
Opportunities.Technology, globalization and competition have led to the emergence of a number of diverse, world-class exchanges
offering large pools of liquidity across multiple asset classes and product types. At the same time, new technologies and the internet have also created a fertile testing ground for new risk
management products and market models. We expect these trends to continue, and we intend to evaluate consolidation and alliance opportunities that we believe will enhance stockholder value.

Products

Our exchanges provide a marketplace for the trading of options contracts that meet criteria established in rules of the respective
exchange. The options contracts listed for trading include options on individual equities, options on various market indexes as well as options on ETFs and ETNs. In addition, we provide marketplaces
for trading futures contracts and cash equities through CFE and CBOE Stock Exchange, LLC ("CBSX"). CBSX is not a consolidated subsidiary of the Company.

•

Equity
Options.We offer trading in options with terms of up to nine months on the stocks of over 2,600 corporations. The stocks
underlying our individual equity options are listed on the NYSE, NYSE Amex and NASDAQ. In addition, we also offer trading in LEAPS, on approximately 800 stocks with terms of up to
thirty-nine months.

•

Index
Options.We offer trading in options on 6 different broad-based market indexes, including VIX, a proprietary index that we have
developed, which has become a widely recognized measure of equity market volatility. The index options we list include some of the most widely recognized measures of the U.S. equity markets, such as
the S&P 500, the DJIA, the NASDAQ 100 and the Russell 2000. Options based on indexes are among our most actively traded products, with several options listed exclusively with us (for
example, options on the S&P 500, S&P 100, DJIA and VIX). We also trade LEAPS on several of our index products.

•

Options on ETFs and
ETNs.We offer trading in options on over 260 ETFs and Exchange-Traded Notes ("ETNs") based on various domestic and foreign market
indexes, as well as on commodities, currencies and fixed income instruments. We also offer trading in LEAPS on 84 ETFs and ETNs. The contract volume of options on ETFs and ETNs traded at CBOE has
experienced a 29% compound annual growth rate from 2005 through 2010, which was the highest rate of growth across all of our options product categories.

•

Futures.We provide a marketplace for trading futures through our wholly-owned
subsidiary, CFE. To date, CFE has focused on the trading of futures and options on futures related to the CBOE-created benchmarks S&P 500 Volatility Indexes ("VIX").

•

Equities.In early 2007, the Company began providing a marketplace for individual
equity securities through a new exchange owned with several broker-dealers. This trading facility, known as CBSX, provides a marketplace for trading stocks on over 7,500 companies listed on









NYSE,
NASDAQ and NYSE Amex. As stated above, CBSX is not a consolidated subsidiary of the Company.

Proprietary Products

The Company has developed several of its own proprietary indexes and index methodologies. These include volatility and/or variance
indexes based on various broad-based market indexes (such as the S&P 500, the DJIA, the NASDAQ 100 and the Russell 2000), realized variance indicators, the CBOE S&P 500 Implied
Correlation Index, a number of sector indexes and a series of option strategy benchmarks, including the BuyWrite, the PutWrite and the Collar indexes based on the S&P 500 and BuyWrite indexes
based on other broad-based market indexes. We also have licensed others to use some of these indexes to create products and have entered into agreements whereby we have granted to others the rights to
sub-license some of these indexes. The Company generates revenue from the calculation and dissemination of over 30 real-time index values for third party licensors and from the
licensing of our proprietary indexes.

Strategic Relationships

The Company also has long-term business relationships with several providers of market indexes. We license their indexes as
the basis for index options. In some instances, these licenses provide us with the exclusive right to list options contracts based on these indexes. Of particular note are the
following:

•

Standard & Poor's
Corporation.We are able to offer contracts on the S&P 500 Index as a result of a licensing arrangement with Standard &
Poor's. Under our license with Standard & Poor's, CBOE and C2 have the exclusive right to list securities options on the S&P 500 Index until 2018 and the S&P 100 Index until 2022.
This license also provides the right to use the S&P 500, the S&P 100, and several other indexes published by Standard & Poor's as the basis for standardized, exchange-traded
options contracts until 2022.

•

Dow Jones &
Co.We are able to offer contracts on the DJIA as a result of a licensing arrangement with Dow Jones & Co. This license provides
us the right to use the DJIA and several other indexes published by Dow Jones & Co. as the basis for standardized, exchange-traded options contracts. Under its license with Dow Jones &
Co., the Company has the exclusive right to list securities options on the DJIA during standard U.S. trading hours until 2012. Both Dow Jones and CBOE have the right to extend the exclusive license on
the DJIA until 2017 and the Company expects to extend the agreement.

•

NASDAQ.We are able to offer contracts on the NASDAQ 100 Index as a result of
a licensing arrangement with NASDAQ. This license provides CBOE the right to use the NASDAQ 100 as the basis for standardized, exchange-traded options contracts. The license with NASDAQ is
non-exclusive and is effective until 2015.

•

Frank Russell
Co.We are able to offer contracts on the Russell 2000 and other indexes in the Russell index family, as a result of a licensing
arrangement with Frank Russell Co. This license provides CBOE the right to use the Russell indexes as the basis for standardized, exchange-traded options contracts. This license is
non-exclusive.

Market Model

CBOE and C2 provide a reliable, orderly, liquid and efficient marketplace for the trading of options. CBOE operates a quote-driven
auction market that employs a combination of specialists, market-makers, floor brokers and electronic access permit firms (order flow providers), while C2 employs market-makers and electronic access
permit firms (order flow providers) only. At CBOE, DPMs (see definition below) are specialists that are charged with maintaining fair, orderly and continuous markets in specific option classes, either
from the trading floor or remotely. In certain











heavily
traded classes, CBOE assigns multiple remote-only specialists (eDPMs) to enhance CBOE's competitive position in that product. Both DPMs and eDPMs trade for their own accounts and
are not permitted to act as agent on behalf of customers, although they may be affiliated with large financial companies that also operate agency businesses. Market-makers, operating from remote
locations or in-person on the trading floor, supplement the liquidity provided by the specialists by quoting both bids and offers for their own accounts in their assigned classes. Floor
brokers act as agents on the trading floor to facilitate primarily large or complicated orders that customers choose not to direct to the electronic system.

CBOE
and C2 offer different but complementary market models, offering customers and participants a broad range of choices.

•CBOE operates a Hybrid trading platform that combines an electronic trading system, supported by
CBOEdirect, together with a traditional open-outcry trading floor. The algorithm is modified pro-rata, with customer priority.
CBOE's modified pro-rata algorithms grant liquidity providers, who meet certain criteria, additional participation rights, based on a variety of factors. CBOE utilizes a pricing model in
which transaction fees are charged to most professionals, including market-makers, but are not charged for most retail customer orders.•C2 operates on CBOEdirect, a fully electronic platform. The matching algorithm for multi-listed options classes is a
modified price-time with customer priority. The modified price-time algorithm grants liquidity providers, who meet certain criteria, additional participation rights, based on a
variety of factors C2 uses a maker-taker pricing model in which orders that take liquidity from the marketplace are charged a transaction fee and non-customer orders that provide liquidity
to the market place receive a rebate.

Market Participants

Direct access to the CBOE marketplace is granted to individuals and firms through trading permits. A trading permit entitles the holder
to conduct business on the exchange in one of the participant roles described below. On C2, only firms can obtain trading permits.

•

Market-Maker.A market-maker is an individual or firm that engages in trading our
products either for their own account or for the account of their firm. A market-maker may operate on the trading floor or remotely. Market-makers do not act as an agent representing customer orders.
Market-makers have certain quoting obligations in their appointed product classes. Like stock specialists, they are granted margin relief to ensure they can conduct business without requiring
excessive amounts of capital. Market-makers must have a relationship with a clearing firm that will hold and guarantee their positions. When a person is referred to as a "trader," it typically implies
that the individual acts as a market-maker. The majority of trading permits in use on CBOE are used for market making.

•

Lead Market-Maker, or
LMM.An LMM is a market-maker that assumes special obligations with respect to providing electronic and/or open outcry quotes for
specific options classes at CBOE. Currently, LMMs are utilized in three roles: a) as electronic and open outcry quote providers in S&P 500 Index ("SPX") options, b) as electronic
and open outcry quote providers in S&P 100 Index ("OEX" and "XEO") options, and c) in certain classes where an off-floor DPM is in operation and providing electronic markets only, to
ensure that trading floor personnel can always obtain verbal markets. In the latter two, the LMM's receive participation rights, both electronic and in open outcry for (b) and in open outcry only for
(c). In SPX, LMMs do not receive participation rights, and multiple LMMs are appointed who rotate each expiration cycle, with at least two quoting at any given time. All LMMs are required to maintain
a physical presence in the trading crowd of their appointed classes.









•

Floor
Broker.An individual who represents orders on the CBOE trading floor as an agent is known as a floor broker. Floor brokers generally do
not trade for their own account and do not receive any margin benefit. They generate revenue by charging commissions to their customers for their services. A floor broker may represent orders for his
firm's proprietary account provided it is done in accordance with CBOE rules.

•

Designated Primary Market-Maker, or
DPM.A DPM is a market-maker firm that has been assigned specialist responsibilities in certain options classes at CBOE. As such, the
term "DPM" and "specialist" are used interchangeably in this document. Although they may be affiliated with a firm that conducts an agency business, DPMs trade for their own account and are not
permitted to act as agent on behalf of customers. DPMs are obligated to provide continuous quotes in their appointed classes but at a higher standard than that of regular market-makers. DPMs are also
expected to participate in business development efforts to attract business to CBOE for their appointed classes. Like market-makers, they receive margin relief. DPMs also are granted "participation
rights" in their appointed classes. Participation rights guarantee DPMs a minimum share of each trade for which they are on the best market. As of December 31, 2010, there are 13 DPM firms, of
which 10 cover approximately 1,669 classes across 18 different trading crowds and seven off-floor DPMs cover approximately 1,266 classes across nine trading posts.

•

Electronic Designated Primary Market-Maker, or
eDPM.An eDPM is a market-maker that has been assigned specialist responsibilities similar to a DPM but only operates remotely, not on
the trading floor. They also are granted participation rights in their appointed classes but at a lower level than that of DPMs, reflecting their slightly lesser obligations. eDPMs serve to supplement
the role of the DPM and are also motivated to engage in business development efforts in their appointed classes. The appointments and class allocations granted to DPMs and eDPMs are not permanent and
may be revoked or reassigned for cause. As of December 31, 2010, there are five eDPM firms at CBOE, each having from 175 to 346 appointed classes.

•

Member
Firm.The term "member firm" is typically used to refer to those firms that bring order flow to the exchanges and that are Trading
Permit Holders for the purpose of executing their customers' orders on the CBOE or C2 marketplace. These firms are also referred to as "order flow providers." They generate revenue by charging
commissions for their services to their customers and in some cases through the receipt of payment for their order flow.

Several
of the functions described above, namely, market-maker, DPM, eDPM and LMM, are often grouped together as "liquidity providers." This name refers to the fact that they all provide
liquidity to the options market through their various obligations to provide to the marketplace two-sided quotes at which they are obligated to trade. Any of these liquidity providers
may be designated as a preferred market-maker by a member firm routing an order to CBOE or C2. The preferred market-maker is afforded a participation right on specific orders provided that he or she
meets certain other requirements with respect to the relevant option class and quoting obligations.

Trading Permit Holders

We operate three separate self-regulatory exchanges: CBOE, C2 and CFE. We are also affiliated with and provide the trading
engine for CBSX. Purchasing a monthly Market-Maker Trading Permit (CBOE, C2), Electronic Access Permit (CBOE, C2) or Floor Broker Trading Permit (CBOE) for the respective exchange conveys "Trading
Permit Holder" status on the respective exchange to the permit holder. For CBOE, additional tier appointments are required to act as a Market-Maker in trade SPX options or as a Market-Maker or Floor
Broker in VIX options. We expect to begin trading SPXpm on C2, an electronic version of our S&P 500 option product with p.m. settlement and, similar to CBOE, an additional tier
appointment will be required for Market-Makers.









In
general, Trading Permit Holders are broker-dealers of large banks, proprietary trading firms, brokerages and investment houses and clearing firms, as well as individual traders.
Trading on our open outcry trading floor is conducted exclusively by Trading Permit Holders in Chicago. Trading Permit Holders can execute trades for their own accounts, for clearing firm accounts,
for the accounts of other permit holders or for the accounts of customers of clearing firms.

Trading
Permit Holder status enables a market-maker to submit electronic quotes into the trade engine on CBOE or C2 or make markets in open outcry on CBOE. Trading Permit Holder status
allows Floor Brokers on CBOE to conduct business on the Exchange Floor or enter orders into the trade engine. Trading Permit Holder status for Electronic Access Permits allows the holder to enter
electronic orders into the trade engine. A broker/dealer can apply for and hold a trading permit at CBOE, C2 or both—depending on the products intended to be traded. Rights and privileges
of trading permits are exchange-specific.

Trading Permits:

•Market-Maker Trading Permit Holders (CBOE, C2)—The
Market-Maker Trading Permit entitles the holder to act as a market-maker (including a market-maker trading remotely), DPM, eDPM or LMM on the respective exchange, if applicable on such exchange. This
permit provides an appointment credit of 1.0 (which is a measure of how many classes the Trading Permit Holder can quote), a quoting and order entry bandwidth allowance, up to three logins, trading
floor access and Trading Permit Holder status. Trading all classes listed on CBOE requires a minimum of thirty-three permits.

The
quoting bandwidth allowance for a Market-Maker Trading Permit is equivalent to a maximum of 31.2 million quotes over the course of a trading day. To the extent a market-maker is able to
submit electronic quotes in a Hybrid 3.0 class (such as a LMM that streams quotes in the class or a market-maker or LMM that streams quotes in a series of a Hybrid 3.0 class that trades
on the Hybrid Trading System), the market-maker receives the quoting bandwidth allowance to quote in, and only in, that class.

•Electronic Access Permit ("EAP") (CBOE, C2)—The EAP entitles
the holder to electronic access to the exchange. Holders must be broker-dealers registered with the exchange in one or more of the following capacities: (a) Clearing Trading Permit Holder;
(b) Trading Permit Holder organization approved to transact business with the public; (c) Proprietary Trading Permit Holder; and (d) order service firm. This CBOE EAP permit does
not provide access to the trading floor. A Proprietary Trading Permit Holder is a Trading Permit Holder with electronic access to the exchanges to submit proprietary orders that are not market-maker
orders (i.e. that are not market-maker orders for the Proprietary Trading Permit Holder's own account or an affiliated market-maker account). The EAP provides an order entry bandwidth allowance, up to
three logins and Trading Permit Holder Status.•Floor Broker Trading Permit (CBOE)—The Floor Broker Trading
Permit entitles the holder to act as a Floor Broker. This permit provides an order entry bandwidth allowance, up to three logins, trading floor access and Trading Permit Holder Status (including
access to CBSX). A "Floor Broker" is a Trading Permit Holder who can act as a broker for other Trading Permit Holders or registered broker-dealers as an agent on the floor of the exchange.

Tier Appointments

In order for a Market-Maker Trading Permit to be used to act as a market-maker in either SPX or VIX, the Trading Permit Holder must
obtain a "Tier Appointment" for the respective option class. Each Tier Appointment is class-specific. We expect that SPXpm will have a similar Tier Appointment for market-makers to trade it on C2,
pending SEC approval, as Tier Appointments are exchange-specific.







Applicants for Trading Permit Holder Status

Applicants for Trading Permit Holder status must have adequate financial resources and credit to assume the responsibilities and
privileges of Trading Permit Holder status. All Trading Permit Holders must understand the rules and regulations of the applicable exchange and agree to abide by them. Additionally, they must comply
with the provisions of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations issued by the SEC.

Our
Regulatory Services Division is the investigative arm of our exchanges with regard to exchange rules. Trading Permit Holders who are found to have violated a rule can be subject to
sanctions such as fines, trading suspensions and/or expulsion from the particular exchange.

Hybrid Trading Model

Most options are traded on CBOE both electronically and in open outcry using its Hybrid trading model. Both C2 and CFE are
all-electronic exchanges.

We
developed the first Hybrid trading model, in which aspects of both open outcry and electronic trading are integrated to function as a single market. This trading model is supported by
state-of-the-art technology, including the CBOEdirecttrading platform. Since we began operating our Hybrid trading
model in 2003, a significant portion of the volume in our products has migrated to electronic execution.

The
Hybrid trading model enables CBOE market-makers to employ their own, individual pricing models and to stream their own individual quotes and orders into the CBOE trading engine. CBOE
market-makers present on the trading floor are able to both stream their quotes into CBOE's central trading engine and to participate in open outcry transactions effected in their trading crowd. Our
Hybrid trading model allows CBOE to offer both electronic and open outcry trading models simultaneously without sacrificing the benefits each brings.

At
the core of the Hybrid trading model are the matching algorithms, which is the means by which trades are executed and allocated to market participants. CBOE's technology and rules
provide for a variety of different algorithms for matching buyers and sellers. CBOE has the ability to apply different matching algorithms to different products, and currently has two different
algorithms in operation for various products. Each matching algorithm is designed to meet the needs of a particular market segment. The setting of the matching algorithm affects the share of each
trade that a market participant receives and is central to the opportunity and profit potential of market-makers and other liquidity providers.

Our
Hybrid trading system calculates the National Best Bid and Offer ("NBBO"), and orders are not executed at a price inferior to the displayed NBBO except pursuant to limited exceptions
provided in CBOE's rules. The system monitors all other option marketplaces, and it has the capability to route orders to other marketplaces for execution if a better price exists elsewhere. This
linkage model is based on the Regulation NMS (National Market System) inter-market linkage structure that exists for U.S. equity trading. The structure requires price protection of the exchanges' best
displayed bids and offers ("BBOs") when they are at the NBBO and utilizes Intermarket Sweep Orders ("ISOs") to trade multiple prices at multiple exchanges nearly simultaneously. Undisplayed bids and
offers and bids and offers at price that are inferior to an exchange's BBO do not receive protection under this plan.

The
Hybrid trading system also supports off-floor participants, including remote market making, off-floor DPMs and eDPMs. Currently, eDPMs make markets in
approximately 500 classes.









Our
market model continues to evolve and expand as we innovate and adapt to changes in the marketplace. Details on our technological capabilities, as well as key systems offerings
available to customers, is described in "Technology."

Competition

CBOE is the largest options exchange in the U.S. based on both total contract volume and notional value of contracts traded. Our market
share for all options traded on U.S. exchanges over the past five years has ranged from 28.6% to 33.3%. For 2010, our market share was 28.6%.

The
U.S. options industry is extremely competitive. We compete with a number of registered national securities exchanges and may compete with other exchanges or other trading venues in
the future. The seven other U.S. options exchanges that are our primary direct competitors are BATS Options, BOX, ISE, NYSE Arca, NYSE Amex, NASDAQ OMX PHLX and NOM.

Competition
among options exchanges has intensified since CBOE was created in 1973, and we expect this trend to continue. We compete with a number of entities on several different
fronts, including the cost, quality and speed of our trade execution, the functionality and ease of use of our trading platform, the range of our products and services, our technological innovation
and adaptation and our reputation. Our principal competitors are the seven other U.S. options exchanges. We also compete against futures exchanges trading similar products and other financial
institutions that write over-the-counter derivatives. There are three futures exchanges that offer competing products.

Most
equity options and options on ETFs listed and traded on CBOE and C2 are also listed and traded on other U.S. options exchanges. Some order-providing firms on our exchanges have
taken ownership positions in other options exchanges that compete with us, which may give those firms an added incentive to direct orders to the exchanges in which they have ownership. In addition,
several options exchanges utilize a pricing model in which orders that take liquidity from the marketplace are charged a transaction fee, dependent on origin type, and orders that provide liquidity to
the marketplace may receive a rebate for doing so, dependent on origin type. This type of fee schedule,
known as "maker-taker," is attractive to participants who regularly provide liquidity but not necessarily to firms representing customer orders, as those orders are disproportionately takers of
liquidity.

Our
competitive challenge is to convince broker-dealers to route options orders to CBOE or C2 rather than to our competitors and to convince liquidity providers to concentrate their
market making activity on our exchanges. This is particularly true with respect to options on individual equity securities and ETFs, which tend to be traded on multiple exchanges. We compete through a
variety of methods, including:

•Launching C2 in October 2010, which employs the maker-taker fee schedule, as a complement to CBOE, which employs the
traditional market model where transaction fees are paid primarily by market-makers and firms trading for their proprietary accounts and non-professional customers pay little or no
transaction fees. C2 is also all-electronic as compared to CBOE's Hybrid trading model;•Offering market participants an efficient, transparent and liquid marketplace for trading options both through traditional
open outcry methods and through our electronic platform, CBOEdirect;•Providing advanced technology that offers broad functionality, high bandwidth, fast execution, ease of use, scalability,
reliability and security;•Offering participants access to a broad array of products and services, including proprietary products;•Offering customers execution at the national best bid and offer with the additional potential for price improvement;









•Offering customers liquidity beyond the size posted on the screens;•Offering a cost-effective trading venue to order flow providers;•Facilitating payment for order flow through the administration of marketing fees;•Offering market-makers and specialists cost-effective access to customer order flow, including potential
participation rights that guarantee them a portion of certain trades provided they have met certain obligations; and•Providing brokers and their customers with a complete source of information on options as well as extensive options
education.

Technology

Our technology supports trading on multiple exchanges: CBOE, C2, CFE, CBSX and OneChicago. Our systems can simultaneously support
multiple trading models and multiple matching algorithms per exchange. For example, different products could trade simultaneously using open outcry, screen based or a Hybrid model. Within these
trading models, different products can be traded using different matching algorithms. CBOEdirectalso supports trading options on futures. We have
licensed our platform for use by CBSX and OneChicago.

Trading Platform

CBOEdirect,the central platform for our Hybrid trading system, was launched in 2003.
The CBOEdirectplatform integrates the CBOEdirecttrading engine with the routing, display systems and
broker handling systems that support the trading floor. It provides features of screen-based and floor-based trading in what we believe is a "best of both worlds" market model.

CBOE
uses a quote-driven market model where liquidity providers have quoting obligations. The CBOEdirecttrade engine includes the match
engine, the order book and the quote processor. CBOEdirectenables the users to post quotes with size and expedite order execution.
CBOEdirectaccepts streaming quotes from market-makers, DPMs, eDPMs and LMMs, automatically executes marketable orders and opens the book to
non-customers.

CBOEdirectfunctionality includes: numerous allocation algorithms, a complex order book including complex orders with a stock component,
preferenced orders, several auction mechanisms, Quote Lock, Quote Risk Monitor and User Input Monitor. The various allocation algorithms are configurable by product.

CBOEdirect'sunderlying technology is a Java application with an infrastructure designed for high performance and is designed to be
scalable for capacity and throughput. CBOE's trading platform is capable of accommodating significantly more than the over 3,000 options classes and over 300,000 options series currently
trading on it. In addition to simple orders, our systems support trading spreads and other complex orders, as well as options that expire weekly. In 2010, CBOE transmitted to the Options Price
Reporting Authority ("OPRA") peaks of over 500,000 quotes per second, and CBOE accepts from its users, and disseminates to OPRA, more quotes than any other options exchange.

CBOEdirect'sdesign allows for a quick introduction of different types of derivative and securities products, including options, futures,
options on futures and stock products. In addition, our system facilitates different trading models, allowing us to provide both a floor-based model and a screen-based model.

CBOEdirectprovides application programming interfaces, or APIs, to facilitate both quote and order entry as well as auction processing.
These include a proprietary API called CBOE Market interface ("CMi") and the industry-standard Financial Information Exchange ("FIX").









Order Routing, Trade Match, Ticker Plant and Market Data

The order routing system allows Trading Permit Holders to use FIX or CMi.

The
Trade Match system uses CBOEdirecttechnology. It sends matched trades to the Options Clearing Corporation ("OCC"), which then settles
and clears the trades. The Trade Match system provides matched trade information to clearing firms via CBOEdirecttechnology. Brokers have access to
their trades and related account information via a web-based interface or through an API.

The
ticker plant, XTP, takes in market data feeds from CTS/CQS, OPRA, NASDAQ, the CME Group, Inc. ("CME") and other sources and disseminates the data internally to other systems
on a publish/subscribe basis. XTP's most recent processing peak was 1.2 million messages per second, or MPS, inbound from the OPRA, with over 6 billion messages per day.

The
system disseminates options market data to OPRA and to Trading Permit Holders via FIX, CMi and CSM. CSM is a new high speed multicast feed for distribution of current market data.
The system also uses Ticker Express to provide fast, accurate market data to Trading Permit Holders.

CFE
disseminates futures market data via the CBOE Financial Network ("CFN"), our futures market data network.

Our
fully integrated real-time system tracks electronic trading for Help Desk troubleshooting and regulatory analysis. We have invested in an extensive data warehouse with
terabytes of historical trading data that provides fast and easy access to data for analysis.

Disaster Recovery

With two options exchanges, we have multiple data center locations running on the same technology platform. We use a remote data center
to provide a point of redundancy for our CBOE and CFE exchanges. Our remote facility fully replicates our primary CBOE data center and is designed to ensure the operation of our platform's
functionality in the face of external threats, unforeseen disasters or internal failures. In the event of an emergency, CBOE Trading Permit Holders connecting to the CBOE trading platform can route to
the back-up facility. Our primary data center continuously collects and saves all trade information and periodically transmits it to the back-up facility. For that reason, we
expect that our disaster recovery system would have current, and in most cases real-time, information in the event of a platform outage. In the event that we were required to complete a
changeover to a back-up disaster facility, we anticipate that our platform would experience minimal downtime.

Clearing System

The OCC acts as the issuer, counterparty and guarantor for all options contracts traded on our options exchanges and other U.S.
securities exchanges. Upon execution of an option trade, we transmit to OCC a record of all trading activity for clearing and settlement purposes. OCC fulfills these same functions for futures
products traded on the CFE.

Market Data

Our markets generate valuable information regarding the prices of our products and the trading activity in those markets. Market data
relating to price and size of market quotations and the price and size of trades is collected and consolidated by OPRA. OPRA disseminates the information to vendors who redistribute the data to
brokers, investors and other persons or entities that use our markets or that monitor general economic conditions, such as financial information providers, broker-dealers, banks, futures commission
merchants, public and private pension funds, investment companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, hedge funds, commodity pools, individual investors and other financial services organizations.
After costs are deducted, the fees collected are distributed among exchange









participants
based on their cleared transactions pursuant to the OPRA Plan. As of December 2010, our market data was displayed on approximately 176,000 terminals worldwide. See "Regulatory Environment
and Compliance" for further information on OPRA.

Through
our subsidiary, MDX, we are expanding our market data offerings. MDX is a market data vendor providing information on specialized indexes, time and sales information and
specialized reports of historical market data.

Support Services

Trading Permit Holders and affiliates have access via e-mail and telephone to our specialized network administration
center, which provides support with respect to general technical, business and administrative questions. Our Trading Operations Help Desk is staffed Monday through Friday from 6:00AM CST to 4:30PM
CST. Our Systems Operations support is staffed 24 hours a day, seven days a week.

Regulatory Environment and Compliance

Recent Developments

Laws and regulations regarding our business are frequently modified or changed, including in response to adverse financial conditions,
new products, competition or at the request of market participants. The following is a summary of the recent regulatory developments that may impact our business.

The Penny Pilot Program

CBOE, C2 and the other options exchanges currently participate in the Penny Pilot Program, which began in 2007. Options classes traded
in this program generally are quoted in penny and nickel increments, as opposed to the five and ten cent increments allowed under existing rules. The SEC has expressed the view that quoting in pennies
benefits investors in two ways: (1) penny increments allow for a narrower bid/ask spread and (2) the pricing pressure reduces the role of payment for order flow in options. The SEC
recently extended this program through the end of 2011. Currently, 365 option classes are participating in the Penny Pilot Program, and they are among the most actively-traded option classes,
representing approximately 76% of the national options volume.

Portfolio Margining

The portfolio margining rules are intended to align the amount of margin capital required to be held in a customer account with the
risk of the portfolio as a whole, instead of with the risk of each instrument in the portfolio. Portfolio margining can significantly reduce margin requirements and make trading more efficient by
freeing up margin capital for other purposes. CBOE and Financial Industry Regulatory Authority ("FINRA") have approved 25 broker-dealers to offer portfolio margining as of December 31, 2010.

The
Dodd-Frank Act addressed one of the major obstacles to broader use of portfolio margining. Currently, U.S. bankruptcy laws treat the customer property of a broker-dealer
differently than that of a futures commission merchant. The Dodd-Frank Act amended several provisions in the Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970 to provide protection to futures
positions held in a portfolio margin account at a broker-dealer.







The Dodd-Frank Act also added general provisions to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the Commodity Exchange Act to permit securities and
futures positions in a single portfolio margin account and directs the SEC and CFTC to consult and adopt specific rules that permit securities and broad-based stock index futures positions to exist in
a single customer portfolio margin account. As of February 28, 2011, the agencies have not proposed rules to implement these provisions of Dodd-Frank.

Short Sale Restrictions

On February 24, 2010, the SEC voted 3-2 to adopt a new "alternative uptick" rule (Rule 201 under Regulation
SHO). The alternative uptick rule imposes restrictions on short selling only when a stock has triggered a circuit breaker by experiencing a price decline of at least 10 percent in one day. At
that point, short selling would be permitted if the price of the security is above the current national best bid. Rule 201 includes the following features:

•Short Sale-Related Circuit Breaker:The
circuit breaker would be triggered for a security any day in which the price declines by 10 percent or more from the prior day's closing price;•Duration of Price Test Restriction:Once the circuit
breaker has been triggered, the alternative uptick rule would apply to short sale orders in that security for the remainder of the day as well as the following day;•Securities Covered by Price Test Restriction:The rule
generally applies to all equity securities that are listed on a national securities exchange, whether traded on an exchange or in the over-the-counter market; and•Implementation:The rule requires trading centers to
establish, maintain, and enforce written policies and procedures that are reasonably designed to prevent the execution or display of a prohibited short sale.

The
new rule became effective May 10, 2010, and market participants had until February 28, 2011 to comply with the requirements. The alternative uptick rule does not
contain exceptions for options market-makers that may enter short sales in underlying securities in connection with bona fide option market making and hedging activities. Consequently, the new rule
could affect the ability of options market-makers to conduct their business on the CBOE and elsewhere.

We
cannot predict what further action, if any, the SEC may take with respect to short selling or what effect any SEC action might have on the options exchange business, including our
business.

"Flash Orders"

On September 18, 2009, the SEC proposed a rule change that would ban the use of "flash orders" in stock and options markets. The
proposed ban does not distinguish between electronic "flashes" and "flashes" that may occur in open outcry trading. Orders that get flashed on exchanges are orders that are marketable but cannot be
executed on the receiving exchange at that
exchange's disseminated price because another exchange is displaying a better price. Flashing an order gives participants on the receiving exchange an opportunity to step-up and match or improve the
better price available on another exchange before a linkage order is routed to such other exchange. Because CBOE currently absorbs the linkage and execution costs incurred at other exchanges when a
linkage order is sent to such other exchanges on behalf of small retail customer orders, CBOE's flash mechanism is popular with those customers.

CBOE
and many options market participants have submitted letters to the SEC expressing the view that flash orders in options benefit customers by reducing costs and providing greater
choice of execution venues. We cannot predict what action the SEC may take with respect to flash orders.









Market Access

On November 3, 2010, the SEC approved a rule change that would require brokers or dealers with access to trading directly on an
exchange or automated trading system ("ATS"), including those providing sponsored or direct market access to customers or other persons, to implement risk management controls and supervisory
procedures reasonably designed to manage the financial, regulatory, and other risks of this business activity. Given the increased speed and automation of trading on securities exchanges and ATSs
today, and the growing popularity of sponsored or direct market access arrangements where broker-dealers allow customers to trade in those markets electronically using the broker-dealers' market
participant identifiers, the SEC is concerned that the various financial and regulatory risks that arise in connection with such access may not be appropriately and effectively controlled by all
broker-dealers. The new rule encompasses trading in all securities on an exchange or ATS, including equities, options, exchange-traded funds, and debt securities. The new rule also applies broadly to
all access to trading on an exchange or ATS provided by a broker-dealer; it would not apply to non-broker-dealers, including non-brokers that are subscribers of an ATS. The new
rule became effective January 14, 2011 and market participants have until July 14, 2011 to comply with the requirements.

Equity Market Structure Concept Release

On January 21, 2010, the SEC published a concept release applicable to the equity markets that requests comments on various
matters related to the structure of equity
markets, including high frequency trading and markets that do not publicly display price quotations, often referred to as dark pools. The SEC is assessing whether the current market structure serves
the interests of long-term investors and whether it promotes capital formation. Included in the discussion of high frequency trading is a discussion of co-location practice
whereby trading firms seek to house computer servers in close physical proximity to exchange trading systems to reduce latency. CBOE has market participants that co-locate servers at CBOE.
While the SEC assessment is directed at equity markets, it is possible that co-location practices and other aspects of high frequency trading in the listed options market may be affected
as a result of any SEC rule making that occurs as a result of the concept release and SEC assessment. We cannot predict what, if any, actions the SEC may take regarding the topics covered in this
concept release.

Fee Caps









We
note that we did not exclude transactions in singly-listed options for this analysis in order to allow a more consistent comparison with how we understand the SEC to have calculated its estimate.

We
cannot predict whether the SEC will adopt the proposed rule amendments, modified versions or at all. The potential impact to our revenues, however, could be higher or lower depending
on changes in our contract volume and product mix in future periods as well as other factors, including those that are currently being considered as part of the rulemaking process. For example, in its
release, the SEC asks whether the proposed fee cap should only apply to multiply-listed options. We also note that in the release, the SEC states that it "preliminarily believes that exchanges are
likely to amend their fees that would not be impacted by the access fee limitation to make up for the reduction in access fee revenue,
thus keeping the overall level of fees paid by members, and the amount of revenue received by the exchange, relatively constant." If the proposed rules are adopted as proposed, or are adopted in a
form substantially similar to that proposed, and CBOE is unable to make changes to its fee structure in response to the rules as adopted, it would have a material adverse effect on our business,
result of operations and financial condition. The SEC has not acted on the proposal to date. We are committed to vigorously challenging fee caps for listed options.

Circuit Breaker Rule Proposals

On May 6, 2010, markets dropped significantly and approximately 30 S&P 500 Index stocks fell at least 10 percent
in a five-minute period. In response, on June 10, 2010, the SEC approved rule changes submitted by the national securities exchanges and FINRA under which they would pause trading
in certain individual stocks and overlaying options if the price in the stock moves 10 percent or more in a five-minute period. The markets proposed these rules in consultation with
FINRA and staff of the SEC to provide for uniform market-wide standards for individual securities in the S&P 500 Index that experience a rapid price movement. The program has since
been expanded to also cover individual securities in the Russell 1000 index and a pilot list of Exchange Traded Products and overlying options. The pause is intended to give the markets the
opportunity to attract new trading interest, establish a reasonable market price, and resume trading in a fair and orderly fashion. These rules are in effect on a pilot basis through April 11,
2011. The markets will use the pilot period to make appropriate adjustments to the circuit breaker as warranted based on their experience, and to expand the scope to securities beyond the
S&P 500 (including ETFs) as soon as practicable. The SEC intends to publish the proposed rules for a 10-day public comment period, and determine whether to approve them shortly
thereafter.

During
the pilot period the SEC staff is studying the impact of the pilot and continuing to evaluate further initiatives to address market structure issues revealed by the events of
May 6, 2010, such as refining the single stock circuit breakers by incorporating a limit-up/limit down type mechanism.

We
cannot predict what future actions the SEC might take with respect to the unusual market events of May 6 or the impact that any such actions may have on our business.

ComplianceOptions Industry-CBOE and C2

Federal securities laws have established a two-tiered system for the regulation of securities markets and market
participants. The first tier consists of the SEC, which has primary responsibility for enforcing federal securities laws. The second tier consists of SROs, which are non-governmental
entities that must register with and are regulated by the SEC. CBOE and C2 are SROs, each registered under Section 6 of the Exchange Act as a "national securities exchange" and are
subject to oversight by the SEC.









SROs
in the securities industry are an essential component of the regulatory scheme of the Exchange Act for providing fair and orderly markets and protecting investors. To be registered
as a national securities exchange, an exchange must successfully undergo a rigorous application and review process with the SEC before beginning operations. Among other things, the SEC must determine
that the exchange has the capacity to carry out the purposes of the Exchange Act. An SRO must comply with the Exchange Act and have the ability to enforce compliance by its members and persons
associated with its members with the provisions of the Exchange Act, the rules and regulations thereunder and the rules of the exchange. Our two options exchanges, CBOE and C2, as SROs, are registered
with, and subject to oversight, by the SEC.

In
general, an SRO is responsible for regulating its members through the adoption and enforcement of rules governing the business conduct of its members. The rules of the exchange must
also assure fair representation of its members in the selection of its directors and administration of its affairs and, among other things, provide that one or more directors be representative of
issuers or investors and not be associated with a member of the exchange or with a broker or dealer. Additionally, the rules of the exchange must be adequate to ensure fair dealing and to protect
investors and may not impose any burden on competition not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Exchange Act.

As
registered national securities exchanges, virtually all facets of our CBOE and C2 operations are subject to the SEC's oversight, as prescribed by the Exchange Act. The Exchange
Act and the rules thereunder impose on us many regulatory and operational responsibilities, including the day-to-day responsibilities for market and broker-dealer oversight. We
are also subject to periodic and special examinations by the SEC. Furthermore, as SROs, CBOE and C2 are potentially subject to regulatory or legal action by the SEC or other interested parties. The
SEC also has broad enforcement powers to censure, fine, issue cease-and-desist orders, prohibit us from engaging in some of our
businesses, suspend or revoke our designation as a registered securities exchange or to remove or censure any of our officers or directors who violate applicable laws or regulations.

As
part of its regulatory oversight, the SEC conducts periodic reviews and inspections of exchanges, and CBOE and C2 have been subject to a number of routine reviews and inspections by
the SEC since we began operations. To the extent such reviews and inspections result in regulatory or other changes, we may be required to modify the manner in which we conduct our business, which may
adversely affect our business.

CBOE
and C2 are also subject to the record keeping requirements of Section 17 of the Exchange Act, including the requirement pursuant to Section 17(b) of the Exchange Act
to make certain records available to the SEC for examination.

Section 19
of the Exchange Act also provides that we must submit proposed changes to any of our option exchanges' Rules, policies and practices, including revisions of their
certificates of incorporation and bylaws. The SEC will typically publish the proposal for public comment, following which the SEC may approve, disapprove or abrogate the proposal, as it deems
appropriate. The SEC's action is designed to ensure that the CBOE's and C2's Rules and procedures are consistent with the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations under the Exchange Act.

CBOE Holdings

Certain aspects of CBOE Holdings are subject to SEC oversight, including certain ownership and voting restrictions on its stockholders.
The focus of the SEC's regulation of CBOE Holdings is to assure adequate representation of Trading Permit Holders and public market participants in the governance of the CBOE and C2 exchanges,
as well as to ensure that each can satisfy their regulatory responsibilities under the Exchange Act. Furthermore, the SEC requires that CBOE Holdings give due regard to the preservation of the
independence of the self-regulatory function of the CBOE and









C2 exchanges
and to CBOE Holdings' obligations to investors and the general public. The SEC also requires that CBOE Holdings not take any actions that would interfere with the effectuation of
any decisions by the board of directors of either CBOE or C2 relating to their regulatory functions or the structure of the market that it regulates or that would interfere with the ability of the
exchanges to carry out their responsibilities under the Exchange Act. To the extent that CBOE Holdings' business activities involve or relate to the exchanges, the officers and directors of CBOE
Holdings may be deemed to be officers and directors of the exchanges for purposes of and subject to oversight under the federal securities laws. Accordingly, the SEC may exercise direct supervision
and disciplinary authority
over certain CBOE Holdings' activities and those activities may be subject to SEC approval and, in some cases, public notice and comment.

Futures Industry-CFE

The operations of CFE are subject to regulation by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission ("CFTC") under the Commodity Exchange Act.
The Commodity Exchange Act generally requires that futures trading in the United States be conducted on a commodity exchange designated as a contract market by the CFTC under the Commodity Exchange
Act. The Commodity Exchange Act and CFTC regulations establish non-financial criteria for an exchange to be designated as a contract market on which futures and futures options contracts
may be traded. Designation as a contract market for the trading of a specified futures contract is non-exclusive. This means that the CFTC may designate additional exchanges as contract
markets for trading the same or similar contracts.

CFE
is a designated contract market that is subject to the oversight of the CFTC and to a variety of ongoing regulatory and reporting responsibilities under the Commodity Exchange Act.
CFE has surveillance and compliance operations and procedures to monitor and enforce compliance with rules pertaining to the trading, position sizes, delivery obligations and financial condition of
trading privilege holders.

The
National Futures Association ("NFA") is performing most of these functions pursuant to a Regulatory Services Agreement with CFE. CFE retains overall responsibility for the regulation
of its marketplace. CFE also remains responsible for bringing disciplinary actions against trading privilege holders, including the ability to issue fines in the case of serious
rule violations. In the case of financially distressed trading privilege holders, CFE may take various emergency actions to protect customers, other trading privilege holders and CFE. CFE is
also a party to cooperative and regulatory information sharing agreements with other SROs and is a member of the Intermarket Surveillance Group.

The
Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act enacted in 2010 amended the core principles with which designated contract markets like CFE must comply under
the Commodity Exchange Act. The CFTC has proposed a number of new regulations applicable to designated contract markets in order to implement the amended core principles. These proposals include,
among others, certain ownership and voting restrictions on stockholders like those required by the SEC for securities exchanges, other regulations designed to mitigate potential conflicts of interest,
and regulations relating to the trading rules that designated contract markets may implement. CFE is presently evaluating the potential impact of these proposed regulations and cannot predict or
estimate the full extent to which the proposals may affect CFE or its operations.









Regulatory Responsibilities

Our options exchanges are responsible for taking steps to ensure that their Trading Permit Holders comply with the exchanges' Rules and
with the applicable rules of the SEC. The main activities that the exchanges engage in to measure compliance with these rules include: (1) the review of surveillance exception reports designed
to detect violations of exchange trading rules; (2) the review of surveillance exception reports designed to detect possible manipulation; (3) the further investigation of matters deemed
to be problematic upon review of the exception reports or matters deemed to be problematic as a result of examinations; (4) the investigation of complaints about possible rule violations
brought by customers, members or other SROs; and (5) the examination of CBOE and C2 Trading Permit Holders for compliance with rules such as those related to net capital, books and
records and other related matters. As further described below, each option exchange is also responsible for reviewing its Trading Permit Holders' activities related to the conduct of business directly
with public customers, or sales practice. We have delegated the responsibility to conduct sales practice examinations for options to FINRA, except that we retain responsibility for some of the sales
practice examinations of Trading Permit Holders that are not also members of FINRA or another U.S. securities exchange.

Section 17(d)
of the Exchange Act and the related Exchange Act rules permit SROs to allocate certain regulatory responsibilities to avoid duplicative oversight and regulation.
Under Exchange Act
Rule 17d-1, the SEC designates one SRO to be the Designated Examining Authority ("DEA") for each broker-dealer that is a member of more than one SRO. The DEA is responsible for the
regulatory oversight of the financial aspects of that broker-dealer. We are the DEA for many of our members.

Exchange
Act Rule 17d-2 permits SROs to enter into agreements, commonly called Rule 17d-2 agreements, which are approved by the SEC and concern the
enforcement of rules applicable to all of those SROs and relating to members those SROs have in common. We have entered into 17d-2 agreements under which FINRA is allocated responsibility
for enforcing rules related to options sales practices with respect to CBOE and C2 Trading Permit Holders and insider trading rules with respect to CBSX Trading Permit Holders. We have entered into
another 17d-2 agreement which allocated responsibility to each SRO for ensuring that their allocated common members complied with rules governing expiring exercise declarations, options
position limits and large options position reporting and position adjustments.

In
order to ensure market integrity, we extensively regulate and monitor our Trading Permit Holders trading activities. We believe CBOE and C2 are efficient regulators, which is vital to
attracting











and
retaining the confidence and participation of market-makers, broker-dealers and institutional and retail investors.

We
expend considerable time, financial resources and effort to ensure that the exchanges Rules and regulations conform to regulatory "best practices" within the securities exchange
industry and within the regulatory regime overseen by the SEC, our primary regulator. In order to support our efforts and
those of our market participants to comply with applicable law and our option exchange Rules, we have developed our own automated market surveillance systems to monitor market activity on our option
exchanges and across U.S. options markets.

As
part of the self-regulatory process, disciplinary matters, other than minor matters covered by our Minor Rule Violation Plan, are reviewed by our Business Conduct
Committee, which includes both market participants and public representatives. We are also a participant in the Intermarket Surveillance Group ("ISG"). ISG is an information-sharing cooperative
governed by a written agreement. The purpose of the ISG is to provide a framework for the sharing of information and the coordination of regulatory efforts among exchanges trading securities and
related products to address potential intermarket manipulations and trading abuses.

OPRA Plan, CTA Plan, CQ Plan and NASDAQ Unlisted Trading Privileges Plan

CBOE and C2 are member exchanges in OPRA. The OPRA limited liability company agreement, which has been approved by the SEC, provides
that any securities exchange approved by the SEC for the trading of securities options may become a member exchange of OPRA. The agreement sets forth a system for reporting options information that is
administered by the member exchanges through OPRA, a limited liability company consisting of representatives of the member exchanges. OPRA is the designated securities information processor for market
information that is generated through the trading of exchange-listed securities options in the U.S., and it disseminates certain core trading information, such as last sale reports and quotations. We
also participate in the Consolidated Tape Association, or CTA, the Consolidated Quotation Plan, or CQ Plan, and the NASDAQ Unlisted Trading Privileges Plan, which perform analogous services for the
U.S. equities markets. The Securities Industry Automation Corporation ("SIAC"), acts as the "processor" for OPRA, CTA and the CQ Plan. The NYSE owns SIAC. The NASDAQ acts as the processor for the
NASDAQ Unlisted Trading Plan.

Options Intermarket Linkage Plan

The SEC approved the original Options Intermarket Linkage Plan (the "Linkage Plan"), in 2000. The Linkage Plan was designed to
facilitate the routing of orders between exchanges in furtherance of a national market system. The principal purposes of a national market system is to promote price protection and to assure that
brokers may execute investors' orders at the best market price. The Linkage Plan generally is designed to enable the options exchanges and their members to avoid executing a trade at a price inferior
to the best price displayed by any of the options exchanges, referred to as a "trade-through." The options exchanges implemented a new linkage plan on August 31, 2009 to replace the original
Linkage Plan. Under the new plan, direct exchange-to-exchange access through broker-dealers is used to transmit
intermarket sweep orders similar to sweep orders that are available in the stock market under Regulation NMS.

Options Listing Procedures Plan and Symbology Plan

We are a party to the Options Listing Procedures Plan, which sets forth the procedures that the options exchanges must follow to list
new options. We are also a party to the National Market System Plan for the selection and reservation of securities symbols.









Trademarks

SM

SM

SM

SM

SM

SM

SM

SM

SM

SM

SM

SM

SM

SM

SM

SM

SM

SM

SM

SM

SM

SM

SM

SM

SM

SM

SM

SM

SM

SM

SM

SM

SM

SM

SM

SM

SM

SM

SM

SM

SM

SM

SM

SM

SM

SM

SM

SM

SM

SM

SM

SM

SM

SM

SM

SM

SM

SM

SM

We
also use many trademarks that are owned by third parties, either pursuant to licenses granted to us or merely to refer factually to products that are traded on our markets, including
but not limited to: Standard & Poor's®, S&P®, S&P 500®, Standard & Poor's Depositary Receipts®, SPDR®,
Standard & Poor's 500, Russell 1000®, Russell 2000®, Russell 3000®, Russell MidCap, Dow Jones, DJIA, Dow Jones Industrial Average, Dow Jones Transportation
Average, Dow Jones Utility Average, DIAMONDS, The NASDAQ-100 Index®, NASDAQ-100®, The NASDAQ National Market®, NASDAQ®,
NASDAQ-100 Shares, NASDAQ-100 Trust, Morgan Stanley Retail Index, MSCI, EAFE, iShares, BGI and the MSCI index names.

Employees

As of December 31, 2010, we employed 581 individuals. Of these employees, 259 were involved in systems development or
operations, 94 were involved in direct support of trading operations and 79 were involved in regulatory activities. The remaining 149 personnel provide business development, product development,
education, financial, legal, planning and research, administrative and managerial support.

We
have eight building engineers that are covered by a collective bargaining agreement, which expires on June 1, 2011, with the International Union of Operating Engineers
Local 399, AFL-CIO. Management believes that we have strong relationships with our employees. We have never experienced a work stoppage.









Executive Officers of CBOE Holdings

Set forth below is information regarding our executive officers and certain other key employees:

NameAgePositionWilliam J. Brodsky67Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerEdward J. Joyce59President and Chief Operating OfficerEdward T. Tilly47Executive Vice ChairmanAlan J. Dean56Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and TreasurerRichard G. DuFour67Executive Vice President of Corporate Planning and DevelopmentJoanne Moffic-Silver58Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate SecretaryGerald T. O'Connell59Executive Vice President and Chief Information OfficerEdward L. Provost58Executive Vice President of Business DevelopmentDavid S. Reynolds57Chief Accounting Officer

William J. Brodsky.Mr. Brodsky is Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. He has served in that capacity
since 1997. Prior to joining the Company in 1997, Mr. Brodsky was president and chief executive officer of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange from 1985 to 1997. Mr. Brodsky is a director of
Integrys Energy Group, Inc. and its predecessors. He also is the past chairman of the World Federation of Exchanges, past chairman of the International Options Markets Association and a director of
the Swiss Futures and Options Association. He is a member of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York's International Advisory Committee. Mr. Brodsky also serves on the Kellogg School of Management
Advisory Council and as a trustee of Syracuse University. He is a member of the board of directors of Northwestern Memorial Hospital. Mr. Brodsky holds an A.B. degree and a J.D. degree from
Syracuse University and is a member of the bar in Illinois and New York.

Edward J. Joyce.Mr. Joyce is President and Chief Operating Officer. He has served in that capacity since 2000.
Mr. Joyce has
been employed at the Company in various capacities since 1974. Mr. Joyce serves on the board of directors of The Options Clearing Corporation. He holds a B.S. degree in Business Administration
from Illinois State University and an M.B.A. from DePaul University.

Edward T. Tilly.Mr. Tilly is Executive Vice Chairman. He has served in that capacity since August 2006. He was a member of
CBOE from
1989 until 2006, and served as Member Vice Chairman from 2004 through July 2006. Mr. Tilly is the chairman and a director of CBOE Futures Exchange and serves on the board of directors of the
CBOE Stock Exchange. He holds a B.A. degree in Economics from Northwestern University.

Alan J. Dean.Mr. Dean is Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer. He has served in that capacity
since 1988
and has been employed at the Company in the financial area since 1979. Mr. Dean serves on the board of directors of The Institute for Transfusion Medicine. He is a CPA, and he holds a B.S.
degree in Accounting from Western Illinois University and an M.B.A. from Northwestern University's Kellogg Graduate School of Management.

Richard G. DuFour.Mr. DuFour is Executive Vice President of Corporate Planning and Development. He has served in that
capacity since
1999 and has been employed at the Company since 1980. He serves on the board of OneChicago and as treasurer of the International Options Markets Association. Mr. DuFour is a director of the
Lincoln Park Renewal Corporation. Mr. DuFour holds a B.B.A. degree from the University of Notre Dame and an M.B.A. from the University of Michigan.









Joanne Moffic-Silver.Ms. Moffic-Silver is Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary. She has served in
that capacity
since 1997 and has been employed at the Company since 1980. She is currently a member of the board of advisors of Northwestern University School of Law. Ms. Moffic-Silver received her B.A.
degree with high honors and was elected a member of Phi Beta Kappa from the University of Wisconsin-Madison. Ms. Moffic-Silver received her J.D. degree with honors from Northwestern
University School of Law.

Gerald T. O'Connell.Mr. O'Connell is Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer. He has served in that capacity
since 1993
and has been employed at the Company since 1984. Mr. O'Connell serves on the board of directors of the CBOE Stock Exchange. He holds a B.S. degree in Mathematics from Lewis University and a
J.D. degree from John Marshall Law School.

Edward L. Provost.Mr. Provost is Executive Vice President of Business Development. He has served in that capacity since 2000
and has
been employed at the Company since 1975. Mr. Provost serves as Chairman of the board of directors of the CBOE Stock Exchange. He holds a B.B.A. in Finance from Loyola University of Chicago and
an M.B.A. from the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business.

David S. Reynolds.Mr. Reynolds is Chief Accounting Officer. He has served in that capacity since May 2009. Prior to that,
Mr. Reynolds was with Hudson Highland Group, Inc., where he served in various roles including vice president, controller and chief accounting officer. From February 2005 to February 2007,
Mr. Reynolds was vice president, controller and chief accounting officer of Bally Total Fitness Corporation. Prior to that, he spent twenty-two years in various financial roles at
Comdisco, Inc., rising to senior vice president and controller. Mr. Reynolds began his career at Ernst & Young. Mr. Reynolds is a certified public accountant and a certified cash
manager. He is a graduate of Lehigh University where he obtained a masters degree in business and a B.S. in Finance.

Information Sharing

The Company is a member of the Intermarket Surveillance Group, which consists of over 30 exchanges and regulatory organizations both
within and outside the U.S. The Intermarket Surveillance Group serves this same purpose of providing for the sharing of information under specific circumstances related to the enforcement of
regulations.

In
2005, CBOE entered into a series of Memoranda of Understanding with the three futures exchanges and the two stock exchanges in the Peoples Republic of China. These agreements govern
the sharing of information on market and product development and provide for CBOE to potentially work with these exchanges toward the development of new markets for derivative products. Similar
agreements have also been entered into with the Korea Exchange, the Taiwan Futures Exchange, the China Financial Futures Exchange and the Thailand Futures Exchange. In April 2010, the China Financial
Futures Exchange began trading stock index futures.

Seasonality

In the securities industry, quarterly revenue fluctuations are common and are due primarily to seasonal variations in trading volumes,
competition and technological and regulatory changes. Typically, revenues are lowest in the third quarter, primarily in August, due to reduced trading activity during the summer months.

Available Information

Our website is www.cboe.com. Information made available on or linked to through our web site does not constitute part of this document.
The Company files annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC under the Exchange Act. The Company makes











available,
free of charge, on its website its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and
amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably
practicable after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. The Company's reports filed with, or furnished to, the SEC are also available on the SEC's website at
www.sec.gov.

You
may read and copy this information at the Public Reference Room of the SEC, Room 1580, 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. You may obtain information about the
Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements,
and other information regarding issuers that file electronically through the "EDGAR" (Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval) System, available on the SEC's website (http://www.sec.gov).

In
addition, we have posted on our website the charters for our (i) Audit Committee, (ii) Compensation Committee, and (iii) Nominating and Governance Committee, as
well as our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and Corporate Governance Guidelines. We will provide a copy of these documents without charge to stockholders upon written request to Investor
Relations, CBOE Holdings Inc., 400 South LaSalle Street, Chicago, Illinois 60605.

