Item 1.Business

The following description of the business should be read in conjunction with the information included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019. This description contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ significantly from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements due to the factors set forth in “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Overview

Cboe Global Markets, Inc. is one of the world’s largest exchange holding companies, offering cutting-edge trading and investment solutions to investors around the world. The Company is committed to defining markets to benefit its participants and drive the global marketplace forward through product innovation, leading edge technology and seamless trading solutions.

Cboe offers trading across a diverse range of products in multiple asset classes and geographies, including options, futures, U.S. and European equities, exchange-traded products (“ETPs”), global foreign exchange (“FX”), and multi-asset volatility products based on the VIX Index, recognized as the world’s premier gauge of U.S. equity market volatility. Cboe’s subsidiaries include the largest options exchange and the third largest stock exchange operator in the U.S. In addition, the Company operates one of the largest equities stock exchanges by value traded in Europe and is a leading market globally for ETP listings and trading.

The Company reports the results of its operations in five business segments: Options, U.S. Equities, Futures, European Equities, and Global FX. Our operating revenues consist primarily of transaction fees, access and capacity fees, market data fees and regulatory fines and fees. We also generate revenue from both the calculation and dissemination of index values and from the licensing of our proprietary products. Transaction fee revenues are generated on the contracts or shares traded on our exchanges. In 2019, approximately 62.9% of our net revenues were transaction fee revenues.

Our Business

Originally known as the Chicago Board Options Exchange, Cboe Options was founded in 1973 as a non-stock corporation owned by its members. Cboe Options was the first organized marketplace for the trading of standardized, exchange-traded options on equity securities. In 2004, CFE began operations as a futures exchange. Cboe Global Markets was incorporated in the State of Delaware on August 15, 2006. In June 2010, Cboe Options demutualized, Cboe Options and CFE became wholly-owned subsidiaries of Cboe Global Markets,and Cboe Global Markets completed its initial public offering. In October 2010, C2, the Company’s second options exchange, initiated operations.

On February 28, 2017, the Company completed the acquisition of Bats, which significantly expanded the Company’s product lines across asset classes, broadened its geographic reach with pan-European equities, added global FX market, diversified its business mix with significant non-transactional revenue streams and increased the Company’s options exchanges from two to four with the addition of BZX and EDGX exchanges. Following the acquisition, on October 16, 2017, we changed our legal name from CBOE Holdings, Inc. to Cboe Global Markets, Inc. On September 17, 2018, we voluntarily delisted our common stock from Nasdaq Global Select Market and transferred the listing to Cboe BZX Exchange.

Cboe Global Markets reports on the following five business segments:

●Options.Our options exchange business lists for trading (i) options on market indices (“index options”), including VIX and SPX options, mostly on an exclusive basis, (ii) non-exclusive “multi-listed” options on the stocks of listed individual corporations (“equity options”), and (iii) non-exclusive “multi-listed” options on ETPs, such as exchange-traded funds (“ETFs”) and exchange-traded notes (“ETNs”). These options trade on





Cboe Options, C2, BZX, and EDGX. Cboe Options is our primary options market and offers trading in listed options through a single system, known as our Hybrid trading model, which integrates electronic trading and traditional open outcry trading on our trading floor in Chicago. C2, BZX, and EDGX are our all-electronic options exchanges, and typically operate with different market models and fee structures than Cboe Options. The Options segment also includes applicable market data revenue generated from the U.S. tape plan, the sale of proprietary market data, index licensing, and access and capacity services.

●U.S. Equities.The U.S.Equities segment includes listed equities and ETP transaction services that occur on BZX, BYX, EDGX, and EDGA. This segment also includes ETP listings on BZX, the Cboe Global Markets, Inc. common stock listing, applicable market data revenue generated from the U.S. tape plans, the sale of proprietary market data, routing services, access and capacity services and advertising activity from ETF.com.

●Futures.The Futures segment includes the business of our futures exchange, CFE, which lists VIX futures, futures on corporate bond indices, futures on AMERIBOR, and other futures products. It also includes market data revenue generated from the sale of proprietary market data and from access and capacity services.

●European Equities.The European Equities segment covers securities from 18 European markets including the U.K. and includes transaction services on listed equities, ETPs, exchange-traded commodities, and international depository receipts that occur on MTFs operated by Cboe Europe Equities. It also includes the listings business where ETPs can be listed on its RMs. Cboe Europe Equities operates lit and dark pools, a periodic auctions book, and a Large-in-Scale (“LIS”) trading negotiation facility. Cboe NL, launched in October 2019, operates similar business functionality to that which is offered by Cboe Europe, other than LIS, and provides for trading only in European Economic Area symbols. Cboe Europe Equities also includes market data revenue generated from the sale of proprietary market data and from access and capacity services.

●Global FX.The Global FX segment includes institutional FX services on the Cboe FX platform, which offers an independent, transparent electronic marketplace structure where institutional buyers and sellers worldwide can trade spot FX directly, either anonymously or on a disclosed basis with each other. The Global FX segment also includes non-deliverable forward FX transactions offered for execution on Cboe SEF, as well as revenue generated from the sale of proprietary market data and from access and capacity services.



See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 17 (“Segment Reporting”) to the notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of revenues, and operating income (loss) by business segment. Certain areas within our segments operate globally. For information regarding risks related to our international operations see “Risk Factors.”

The following chart illustrates volume or notional value for Options (Cboe Options, C2 Options, BZX Options, and EDGX Options); Futures (CFE); U.S. Equities (BZX Equities, BYX Equities, EDGA Equities, and EDGX Equities); European Equities; and Global FX (Cboe FX) for the periods indicated (which includes information prior to the acquisition of Bats):

​​​​​​​​​​​​Annual Volumes​​201920182017Options total contracts ADV (in millions)​​7.3​​7.9​​6.9U.S. Equities total touched shares ADV (in billions)​​1.2​​1.4​​1.3Futures ADV (in thousands)​​249.0​​300.0​​294.8European Equities matched and touched ADNV (€ in billions)​​7.7​​10.4​​9.4Global FX ADNV ($ in billions)​​32.3​​37.4​​29.5

​

ADV= average daily volume

ADNV= average daily notional value





Competitive Strengths

We have established ourselves as a global leader and innovator in our industry and believe we are well positioned to further enhance our leadership position through several key competitive strengths:

●Innovative Products and Services.We are structured and committed to deliver a differentiated experience to our customers through our offering of innovative proprietary products, order types, risk management tools and other products and services. We have also worked closely and collaboratively with market participants to introduce new products and services to meet the evolving needs of the industry, and we plan to continue these efforts. Products we have developed include index options, equity options, VIX options and futures, and options and futures on other volatility indices, short duration options, including Weeklys, FLexible EXchange Options (“FLEX options”) and options strategy benchmark indices. We have also developed products that enable our customers to monitor their order handling on our markets in real-time, such as our user dashboard and latency reports. We were the first U.S. options exchange to trade options during non-U.S. trading hours, offering extended trading hours in our exclusive proprietary products. We also connect with a growingcustomer base through trading and educational resources, including resources available through our website, the world-renowned Cboe Options Institute, industry trade shows, industry forums and a comprehensive marketing and communications program.

●Leading Proprietary Technology. Our leading proprietary technology was designed in-house to optimize reliability, speed, scalability and versatility. CFE, C2, and Cboe Options were migrated to our current trading platform on February 25, 2018, May 14, 2018, and October 7, 2019, respectively. As a result, we now offer customers a single uniform trading experience across our equities, options, and futures markets. Our platform has demonstrated very low operational downtime and latency, which we believe gives our customers an additional incentive to use our platform to mitigate trade execution risk, especially in times of extreme market volatility.

●Leading Market Position, Reputation and Brand.We are a leading global operator of securities exchanges and other electronic markets and have a strong market share in the markets we serve. Cboe Options, the largest U.S. options exchange, based on both contract volume and notional value, and one of the largest options exchanges in the world, is an options market leader. As the creator of listed options and other significant products in the listed options industry, including the VIX Index and VIX options and futures, Cboe is a leading brand name in the options and volatility space. In U.S. listed equities, we are the third largest exchange operator, with a market share of 16.3% of the overall U.S. equities market for the year ended December 31, 2019. In European-listed equities, we are one of the largest pan-European exchange operators based on executed notional value of pan-European equities, with a market share of 20.2% of European trading in the securities available for trading on Cboe Europe Equities for the year ended December 31, 2019. In addition, we have a substantial presence in the spot FX markets, with a 15.2% market share of the publicly reported institutional spot FX markets for the year ended December 31, 2019.

●Strategic Relationships and Partnerships.We have entered into licensing agreements with index providers which typically grant us the rights to create volatility indices, offer options and futures products on their indices and use the market data from the trading of options on various products to calculate a number of proprietary indices. We have also formed partnerships with key providers to develop new products and services. See “Proprietary Products-Strategic Relationships.”



Growth Strategy

Our mission is to lead the industry in defining the markets of today and tomorrow through: (1) relentless innovation to expand our diverse offering for investors around the world, (2) leading edge technology to connect customers to global markets, and (3) seamless solutions to enhance the customer experience through insights, education, data,





analytics and more. We expect to further grow our business and increase our revenues and profitability by following our mission and pursuing the following growth strategies:

●Grow Existing Proprietary Products.We plan to continue our efforts to grow the use of our proprietary products, including SPX options and VIX options and futures, by expanding the customer base and increasing existing customers’ product usage. In 2019, we redeployed our customer outreach efforts to further penetrate global market participants by realigning our sales team with specialists targeting asset managers, hedge funds, U.S. insurance companies and pension funds. We also continue to take steps to enhance the risk management tools and information available to our customers, aimed at arming them with information to make more informed trading decisions and gain capital efficiency. Furthermore, we continue to penetrate new markets. In 2019, Cboe Options and CFE were permitted in Switzerland and Spain to market our products to existing or potential customers in those jurisdictions, as well as permit investors in those jurisdictions to directly access Cboe Options and CFE to trade our products.We also plan to continue to enrich and expand our educational content to educate market participants, which is integral to growing our proprietary products.

●Develop Innovative Products and Services.We continue to explore the development of index and other high margin derivative products to trade on our exchanges. We intend to license and create proprietary intellectual property to develop proprietary products that meet the needs of the derivatives industry, both through strategic relationships and internal development, while continuing to diversify our product line across asset classes. We believe that additional proprietary market data, analytics, and access and capacity revenues can be generated while continuing to offer competitive pricing across all of our segments. In 2019, we continued to leverage relationships to extend our product offering by launching or extending existing new products or services, such as Monday expiring options on XSP, our mini-SPX option contract, SPX option expirations related to the 2020 presidential election, development of a future on AMERIBOR, a Cboe Closing Cross to provide post-close trading services at Cboe Europe and developing new benchmarks on MSCI Emerging Markets and EAFE indices.

●Offer Compelling Models.We have designed our market and pricing models to provide benefits to market participants that concentrate their overall trading activity, which we believe encourages market participants to increase their business with us. In our proprietary products, we offer discounts and incentives to certain participants based on relative volume and the use of selected strategies. In multi-listed products and equities trading, we offer incentive programs to attract order flow to help our market participants manage both the fixed and transaction-based costs of trading. We regularly review the market and pricing models for all of our exchanges to provide an industry-leading economic offering. In 2019, we introduced a small retail broker distribution program for U.S. equities market data at discounted rates, order book priority for retail investors on EDGX, and a new lead market maker incentive program for the Cboe Listed ETP Marketplace.

●Continue to Enhance Our Leading Edge Technology.We recognize that the opportunity to participate in the growth of the equities and derivatives market will be driven in great part by the trading functionality and technology capabilities that an exchange offers to market participants. We intend to use our strong in-house development capabilities and continued investment to further enhance and develop the functionality and capacity of our trading systems. With the completion of the multi-exchange technology migration, we intend to redirect our technology efforts to building new value added technologies, such as the development of a state-of-the-art research and data platform. See “Technology.”

●Evaluate Strategic Opportunities.We continually evaluate strategic opportunities that we believe could enhance stockholder value. We specifically look for strategic opportunities beyond our current businesses that can capitalize on our core competencies and diversify our sources of revenue. We continue to form new alliances with various partners that leverage our strengths and enable us to diversify our product and business lines across new regions and asset classes.







Proprietary Products

In addition to our exchanges providing a marketplace and listing venue for the trading of securities and derivatives we also calculate proprietary indices that are used as the basis for proprietary products or licensed for use by third parties. These include:

●volatility index products based on various broad-based market indices, such as the S&P 500, the S&P 100, and the Russell 2000,

●correlation or volatility indices based on ETFs and individual stocks, such as the Cboe Crude Oil ETF Volatility Index, the Cboe Gold ETF Volatility Index, the Cboe Equity VIX on Apple, and the Cboe Equity VIX on Amazon,

●interest rate volatility indices, such as the Cboe/CBOT 10-year U.S. Treasury Note Volatility Index and the Cboe Interest Rate Swap Volatility Index and

●options strategy benchmarks, such as the Cboe BuyWrite, PutWrite and Collar indices based on the S&P 500 and Russell 2000, BuyWrite and PutWrite indices on MSCI EAFE, MSCI Emerging Markets and BuyWrite indices based on other broad-based market indices.



Our most frequently traded products are SPX options and VIX options and futures. In addition to any transaction fee revenue generated on products created based on these indices, we have granted licenses for third parties to use and sublicense some of these proprietary indices to create third-party indices and products. Accordingly, we generate revenue from proprietary indices by distributing them for reference purposes, using them as the basis for proprietary products and licensing them for use for third-party indices and products.

These proprietary indices and products are built both through our in-house research and development staff and our strategic relationships and license agreements with index providers. The following is a discussion of our strategic relationships and additional detail on our most frequently traded products, including SPX options and VIX options and futures.

Strategic Relationships

The Company has long-term business relationships with several providers of market indices. We license their indices, including on an exclusive basis, as the foundation for indices, index options and other products. The Company also acquires interests in and agrees to work jointly with key providers to develop new products and services that are expected to capitalize on our core competencies and diversify our sources of revenue. Of particular note are the following:

●S&P.We have the exclusive right to offer exchange-listed options contracts in the United States on the S&P 500 Index, the S&P 100 Index and the S&P Select Sector Indices as a result of a licensing arrangement with S&P Dow Jones Indices, LLC (“S&P”). Our license from S&P is through December 31, 2033, with an exclusive license to trade options on the S&P 500 Index through December 31, 2032. We use the market data from the trading of options on the S&P 500 Index and S&P 100 Index for the creation of Cboe volatility indices, such as the VIX Index, and for the creation of tradable products on those volatility indices.

●FTSE Russell.Under our license agreement with the London Stock Exchange Group’s (“LSEG”) leading global index franchises, Frank Russell Company and FTSE International Limited (together “FTSE Russell”), we have the exclusive right in the United States to offer listed options on more than two dozen FTSE Russell indices, which represent a diverse group of domestic and global equities with international appeal. We offer options on the Russell 2000, Russell 1000, Russell 1000 Value and Russell 1000 Growth Indices.



​





●MSCI.We have the exclusive right in the United States to offer listed options on six of MSCI’s indices and to calculate and commercialize volatility and strategy indices on the market data from the trading of options on the MSCI EAFA and MSCI Emerging Markets indices, as a result of licensing arrangements with MSCI Inc. (“MSCI”). We currently offer options on the MSCI EAFE and MSCI Emerging Markets Indices, and use trading information to calculate several versions of BuyWrite and PutWrite strategy indices on each MSCI index.

●Dow Jones.We have the exclusive right during standard U.S. trading hours to offer listed options contracts In the United States on the Dow Jones Industrial Average (“DJIA”) and certain other Dow Jones indices through December 31, 2033 as a result of a licensing arrangement with DJI Opco, LLC. We use market data from the trading of options on these indices to create Cboe volatility indices, variance indicators and BuyWrite indices, and to trade options, futures and other products on these indices.



SPX Options

The S&P 500 Index is an index comprised of 500 large-cap U.S. listed companies. It is one of the most commonly followed indices, and is considered a bellwether for the U.S. economy. The SPX options we offer on the S&P 500 Index are exclusive to Cboe and contribute substantially to our volumes and transaction fees. Because of the S&P 500 Index’s status as a bellwether, SPX options are used in many different trading strategies by customers with different goals, including pension funds hedging their equity exposure by buying put options, asset managers seeking enhanced returns by selling covered call options and hedge funds using risk-managed strategies to capture so-called “risk premia” embedded in option prices. We also offer SPX Weeklys options, which have settlements on Mondays, Wednesdays, Fridays and on the last trading day of each month. We believe these additional expirations provide customers with more precision when hedging overall portfolio risk.

Volatility Trading

Cboe pioneered the trading of exchange-traded volatility products with its introduction of VIX futures in 2004 and VIX options in 2006. The VIX Index, although not directly tradable, is based on the mid-point of real-time quotes of SPX options and is designed to reflect investors’ consensus view of future 30-day expected stock market volatility. The VIX methodology provides the basis for the creation of VIX options and futures. The settlement value of VIX derivatives is based on traded prices of SPX options. Since we started offering these products, we have seen trading from a number of different customer segments utilizing a number of different trading strategies, including hedging extreme stock market declines, also known as “tail risk” hedging, and risk-managed strategies that seek to capture the relative price changes of expected volatility at different times in the future. We also offer VIX Weeklys options and futures to provide investors with opportunities and tools to trade volatility over a shorter term.

Listing

Cboe serves as a listing destination for ETPs in the U.S. and Europe. In 2019, Cboe’s market specifically structured and designed for ETP issuers and their investors added 57 listings in the U.S. and won 22 percent of all new U.S. ETP listings. There are now 353 ETPs globally listed on Cboe from 49 different issuers. We offer fully-automated opening, closing and halt reopening auctions for our listed securities, which are designed to maximize the efficiency of the price discovery process.

Cboe also offers issuers the choice of an innovative market maker program referred to as the Cboe Lead Market Maker (“LMM”) incentive program on Cboe BZX and the Cboe Europe Equities Liquidity Provider Program (“LPP”) on Cboe Europe Equities. Under the LMM program, an LMM has certain quoting obligations and for meeting those enhanced obligations, Cboe pays the LMM a daily stipend that varies depending on the average aggregate daily auction volume in the ETPs assigned to such LMM. Also, LMMs transact for free in the closing auction in their assigned ETPs. Under the LPP, Cboe Europe Equities offers three programs designed for participants that wish to provide liquidity by posting and maintaining executable quotes within certain set parameters with the result of providing liquidity on a regular and ongoing basis. Cboe BZX also offers the Cboe Liquidity Management Provider (“LMP”) Program (“LMP Program”). The LMP Program is a rewards-based program that incentivizes liquidity providers to make a better market





in ETPs. Incentives are based on an LMP’s quote quality in the Cboe LMP Program securities, which include all Cboe-listed ETPs and certain non-Cboe-listed ETPs.

Market Data

We derive a portion of our revenue from market data fees from U.S. tape plans, including Unlisted Trading Privileges (“UTPs”), the Consolidated Tape Association (“CTA”) and OPRA. Fees, net of plan costs, from UTP, CTA, and OPRA are allocated and distributed to plan participants like us according to their share of tape fees based on a formula, required by Regulation NMS, which may take into account both trading and quoting activity.

We also provide a robust offering of market data products across multiple asset classes and geographic regions that are designed to suit our customers’ diverse needs. Products include real-time depth of book quotation information, auction and complex option information, top of book quotes and trades, last sale information, consolidated equity feeds, real-time index values, and trade reporting facility information. We also provide analytics services and historical information for our markets through multiple data services.

Our Models

For our U.S. equities markets, which are fully electronic, BZX equities utilizes a price-time market model, combined with the maker-taker pricing model. EDGX equities utilizes a price-time with retail priority market model, combined with the maker-taker pricing model. BYX equities utilizes a price-time with price improvement for retail customers market model, combined with the “taker-maker” pricing model. Under the taker-maker pricing model, market participants who make the market pay a transaction fee, while market participants who trade against those markets receive a rebate. EDGA equities utilizes a price-time market model, combined with a taker-maker pricing model. In addition to these market models, each of our equity markets provide numerous specific order types that are designed to enhance their market models.

For our futures market, CFE, which is fully electronic, utilizes a price-time market model, combined with a pricing model where all market participants generally pay fees, subject to specified exceptions.

Our Cboe FX platform utilizes a price-firmness-time priority market model, combined with a pricing model where customers are charged either a flat or tiered commission rate based upon the notional amount traded on the platform.

In Europe, following the implementation of the Directive on Markets in Financial Instruments (Directive 2014/65/EU) (“MiFID II”), rebates are generally available if they are tied to a market making scheme or specific service.

Our exchanges also charge fees for the opportunity to trade or access our exchanges, including fees for trading-related functionality. To facilitate trading, we also charge fees for certain technology services, terminal and other equipment rights, maintenance services, trading floor space and telecommunications services.





Customers

Our customers include financial institutions, institutional and individual investors and professional traders. Our equities and options customers in the United States include trading permit holders and members of Cboe Options, C2, BZX, BYX, EDGX, and EDGA, which are SEC-registered broker-dealers, and the customers of those broker-dealers. Our futures customers include banks, futures commission merchants, hedge funds, asset managers, proprietary trading firms and Commodity Trading Advisors. Similarly, our equities’ customers in Europe are European Union (“E.U.”) regulated brokerage and proprietary trading firms, as well as sponsored access clients of these brokerage firms, and certain non-E.U. regulated and unregulated direct access participants. Our institutional global FX customers include banks, broker-dealers, hedge funds, asset managers, proprietary trading firms, Commodity Trading Advisors and corporates. Access to our markets, trading rights and privileges depend upon the nature of the customer, such as whether the individual is a trading permit holder, trading privilege holder, member or participant of one of our markets.

Competition

The industry in which we operate is intensely competitive. We believe we face competition on a number of factors, including:

●the price, quality and speed of our trade execution;

●functionality and ease of use of our trading platforms;

●range of our products and services;

●integrity of our marketplaces;

●technological innovation and adaption; and

●our reputation.



We believe that we compete favorably with respect to these factors through a variety of methods, including:

●offering access to a broad array of products and services, including proprietary products and market data;

●offering fee schedules, pricing models that both attract order flow and provide incentives to liquidity providers;

●providing advanced technology that offers broad functionality, low latency, fast execution, ease of use, scalability, reliability and security;

●offering efficient, transparent and liquid marketplaces;

●offering deep and liquid markets with opportunities for price improvement;

●maintaining close relationships with customers; and

●providing customers with a comprehensive source of information on options and ETPs as well as extensive options education.



In our proprietary products, we compete against other futures exchanges and swap execution facilities that offer similar products, as well as against financial market participants that offer similar over-the-counter derivatives. We also compete against certain multi-listed options products, such as options on SPY, which offer some of the market exposure of our proprietary products such as SPX options.

The multi-listed options industry is extremely competitive. We expect this trend to continue. As of December 31, 2019, we compete with 12 U.S. options exchanges, in large part due to existing exchange holding companies opening new exchanges that offer different markets and pricing models on existing technology. Most of the equity and ETP options listed and traded on our exchanges are also listed and traded on the other exchanges. In addition, the options exchanges that we compete with set fees and rebates to attract multi-listed options business to their exchanges, which has historically reduced the net revenue per contract that we generate from multi-listed options, and the options exchanges that we compete with structure their options businesses in partnership with established market participants, such as consolidators, and other order flow providers, to increase their volume traded.

Our U.S. listed equity securities and listing services compete against nine other exchanges as of December 31, 2019, several alternative trading systems (“ATSs”) and single dealer platforms, and three new exchanges are planning to





launch in 2020. Market participants have multiple venues for the execution of orders, including national securities exchanges and numerous off-exchange venues, including ATSs and broker-dealers who internalize orders off-exchange. Additionally, issuers have multiple venues for the listing of their products.

The market for execution services in Europe became more competitive following the introduction of MiFID II and the Regulation on Markets in Financial Instruments (Regulation (EU) No 600/2014) (“MiFIR”). Furthermore, MiFID II and MiFIR placed more onerous conditions on trading venues and investment firms and restricted certain types of trading activity. Our major competitors in Europe include national stock exchanges, other pan-European MTFs, and systematic internalizers.

The global FX market remains severely fragmented, with transparent automated marketplaces such as Cboe FX challenging a small number of similarly situated competitors. While the global FX market has experienced a shift from competing interbank platforms to ECNs, the electronification of the spot and NDF FX market may encounter resistance from customers that still prefer to utilize the phone, instant chats, terminals and key banking relationships for price discovery and trading. Furthermore, electronification of the FX market appears to be experiencing more resistance outside the United States. The electronic spot FX market is also intensely competitive, with over 10 other venues competing for market share as of December 31, 2019.

In addition, demand for our market data faces competition from other securities exchanges, technology companies, third-party market data providers and information and software vendors, who have their own substantial market data distribution capabilities that serve as alternative means for receiving open market data feeds instead of connecting directly to our exchanges or trading venues. The sale of our proprietary data products is also under competitive threat from ATSs and trading venues that offer similar products. Distributors and consumers of our market data may also use our market data as an input into a product that competes against one of our traded or cleared products.

Technology

Cboe Trading Technology

On October 7, 2019, we completed the final step in our multi-exchange technology migration when Cboe Options was migrated to our current trading platform. The trading platform for our equities, options and futures markets is developed, owned and operated in-house and is designed to optimize reliability, speed, scalability and versatility. Each of our exchanges provide different market models, appealing to different user bases and the trading technologies support all of them. Further, the technologies are designed to support many specialized features for each of the markets, such as: dark pools, trade reporting facility, systematic internalizer, Large-in-Scale, smart order routing, FLEX options, 24x5 trading and hybrid trading (combining electronic and open outcry). In addition, Cboe operates a separate FX trading platform for Global FX.

Our trading platforms have experienced very low operational downtime and low latency. The trading platforms use readily available hardware, thereby minimizing capital outlays required for each new market entry. Also, in order to continue to implement new enhancements to our trading platforms, new releases of software are generally deployed on a weekly basis in all of the applicable markets.

Disaster Recovery

We operate and maintain geographically diverse disaster recovery facilities for all of our markets. We expect that the disaster recovery facilities can be up and running in a short period of time and work with our market participants to ensure that the marketplace can be quickly reopened. We regularly test our data center recovery plans and periodically carry out weekend tests using our back-up data centers, as well as an annual test with our U.S. trading participants. In Europe, we also regularly test our data center recovery plans and periodically carry out weekend tests which use our back-up data center, as well as an annual test with our European trading participants. We continue to work to improve both the availability of our technology and our disaster recovery facilities.





Routing and Clearing

OCC is the sole provider of clearing on all of our options and futures exchanges. National Securities Clearing Corporation (“NSCC”) is the sole provider of clearing on our U.S. listed equity exchanges. Cboe Europe Equities relies on LCH.Clearnet Group Limited (“LCH”), EuroCCP N.V., a Dutch domiciled clearing house (“EuroCCP”) and SIX x-clear Ltd (“SIX x-clear”) to clear trades in European listed equity securities as part of an interoperable clearing model.

Cboe Trading is a routing broker-dealer used by our four U.S. equities exchanges and our four U.S. options exchanges, including the electronic platform portion of Cboe Options.

Regulatory Environment and Compliance

Various aspects of our business are subject to regulation by the SEC, CFTC, FINRA, ESMA, FCA and AFM and market participants may be subject to regulation by the SEC, CFTC, FINRA, FCA, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve, U.S. Department of the Treasury and/or foreign regulators. The following is a discussion of the more significant areas of regulation of us by the SEC, the CFTC, and certain European regulators.

Recent Developments

Laws and regulations regarding our business are frequently modified or changed to address perceived problems, new products, competition or at the request of market participants. The following is a summary of the general regulatory structure and brief discussion of recent regulatory developments that may significantly impact our business.

United States

Transaction Fee Pilot

In December 2018, the SEC approved a transaction fee pilot in national market system (“NMS”) stocks (the “transaction fee pilot”). The pilot will subject stock exchange transaction fee pricing, including maker-taker fee-and-rebate pricing models, to new temporary pricing restrictions across two test groups, and will require the exchanges to prepare data to be submitted to the SEC. The transaction fee pilot includes a test group that will prohibit rebates and linked pricing, as well as a test group that will impose a cap of $0.0010 for removing or providing displayed liquidity. Once commenced, the transaction fee pilot will last for up to two years with an automatic sunset at one year unless extended by the SEC.

The transaction fee pilot may cause Cboe’s equities exchanges, BZX, BYX, EDGX, and EDGA, to require additional resources to comply with or continue to challenge the transaction fee pilot and it may have a material impact on our business, financial condition and operating results if, for example, order flow shifts away from exchanges were to occur. See “Legal Proceedings” for more information.

Proposed Consolidated Data Plans

In January 2020, the SEC issued for public comment a proposed order (the “Proposed Order”) that would require U.S. equities exchanges and FINRA to develop and file a new consolidated data plan that would replace the three current U.S. equities tape data plans and require certain governance provisions, such as changes to the voting structure. The deadline for public comment is February 28, 2020. The SEC is not bound by public comments and may or may not proceed with issuing a final order, and may or may not amend the provisions of the Proposed Order before it issues a final order. If the SEC decides to issue a final order that requires the filing of a new consolidated data plan, we and the other U.S. equities exchanges and FINRA would be required to file that plan for public comment before the SEC takes any definitive action on such new plan. Until and if the SEC approves a new consolidated data plan, the current data plans will continue to govern. We cannot predict if, or to the extent to which, a final order may be issued by the SEC. If a final order were to be issued, it may have a negative impact on the market data fees we charge and there could be a negative impact on our revenues. For more information regarding risks related to the Proposed Order see “Risk Factors.”





Europe

Brexit

On June 23, 2016, the United Kingdom (the “U.K.”) voted to leave the E.U. in a referendum (the “Brexit Vote”).  On January 31, 2020, the U.K. exited from the E.U. (“Brexit”) and began a transition period (the “Transition Period”) lasting until December 31, 2020 (or until a subsequent date in the event the deadline is extended).The terms of any agreements entered into during the transition period are unclear and there is uncertainty about the capital markets regulation that will apply to Cboe Europe Equities and its customers. For information regarding risks related to Brexit see “Risk Factors.”

Withdrawal of Swiss Equivalence and Swiss Counter Measure

As a result of an ongoing disagreement between the E.U. and Switzerland, the European Commission allowed its MiFID equivalence decision for Switzerland to expire at the end of June 2019. As a result, Switzerland made it illegal for venues in the E.U., including Cboe Europe, to trade Swiss equities. Until this matter is resolved, Cboe Europe has had to remove these instruments from trading and has suffered a loss of trading revenues as a result. The E.U. and Switzerland continue to negotiate, however it is not clear when or if they will reach an agreement on this matter and this may continue to have an impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. Following Brexit and the end of the Transition Period, U.K. trading venues, including Cboe Europe, may be permitted to resume trading in Swiss equities.

Capital Markets Union

The European Council (“E.C.”) has highlighted one of its top priorities as being the establishment of a fully functioning, well-regulated Capital Markets Union (“CMU”). An Action Plan of concrete steps was set out in September 2015, and an update of the list of initiatives was published in September 2016. More recently, the E.C. has set up a High Level Forum on CMU, with the E.C. and European Parliament also seeking to reboot this project. This therefore remains an ongoing project for the E.C., which may result in additional regulation or legislation.

OTC Derivatives, Central Counterparties and Trade Repositories

The European Market Infrastructure Regulation (“EMIR”) sets out rules relating to over-the-counter (“OTC”) derivatives markets, central counterparties and trade repositories. The rules introduce a reporting obligation for OTC derivatives markets, a clearing obligation for eligible OTC derivatives markets, measures to reduce counterparty credit and operational risk for bilateral OTC derivatives markets, CCPs, and trade repositories, and rules on the establishment of interoperability between CCPs. EMIR was enhanced and amended in June 2019. In addition, regulation governing the authorization and supervision of Central Securities Depositories (“CSDR”) was approved in September 2014, with the publication of most “Level2” Regulatory Technical Standards in March 2017, with implementation in March 2019. CSDR may result in the introduction of mandatory buy-ins for OTC business in 2020. The European Commission has published a proposal for a recovery and resolution framework that is currently being considered for CCPs.

Compliance

U.S. Securities Industry

Federal securities laws have established a two-tiered system for the regulation of securities exchanges and market participants. The first tier consists of the SEC, which has primary responsibility for enforcing federal securities laws. The second tier consists of self-regulatory organizations (“SROs”), which are non-governmental entities that must register with and are regulated by the SEC. Cboe Options, C2, BZX, BYX, EDGX, and EDGA (the “Exchanges”) are SROs, each registered under Section 6 of the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“Exchange Act”) as a “national securities exchange,” and are subject to oversight by the SEC.





SROs are an essential component of the regulatory scheme of the Exchange Act for providing fair and orderly markets and protecting investors. To be registered as a national securities exchange, an exchange must successfully undergo an application and review process with the SEC prior to beginning operations. Among other things, the SEC must determine that the SRO has the ability to comply with the Exchange Act and to enforce compliance by its members and persons associated with its members with the provisions of the Exchange Act, the rules and regulations thereunder and the rules of the exchange.

In general, an exchange SRO is responsible for operating its trading platforms consistent with its rules, and regulating its members through the adoption and enforcement of rules governing the business conduct of its members. The rules of the exchange must also assure fair representation of its members in the selection of its directors and administration of its affairs and, among other things, provide that one or more directors be representative of issuers or investors and not be associated with a member of the exchange or with a broker or dealer. Additionally, the rules of the exchange must be adequate to ensure fair dealing and to protect investors and may not impose any burden on competition not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Exchange Act.

As registered national securities exchanges, virtually all facets of our Exchange operations are subject to the SEC’s oversight, as prescribed by the Exchange Act. The Exchange Act and the rules thereunder impose on us many regulatory and operational responsibilities, including record keeping and the day-to-day responsibilities for market operations and broker-dealer oversight. Furthermore, as SROs, the Exchanges are potentially subject to regulatory or legal action by the SEC or other interested parties. The SEC also has broad enforcement powers to censure, fine, issue cease-and-desist orders, prohibit us from engaging in some of our businesses, suspend or revoke our designation as a registered securities exchange or remove or censure any of our officers or directors who violate applicable laws or regulations. For example, in 2013, Cboe Options and C2 and, in 2015, EDGX and EDGA, entered into consent orders with the SEC, under which they were censured, ordered to cease and desist from violating certain sections of the Exchange Act, paid fines and agreed to complete certain undertakings. We have certified to the completion of these undertakings and are no longer required to certify.

As part of its regulatory oversight, the SEC conducts periodic reviews and inspections of exchanges, and the Exchanges have been subject to such routine reviews and inspections. To the extent such reviews and inspections result in regulatory or other changes, we may be required to modify the manner in which we conduct our business, which may adversely affect our business. We collect certain fees to cover Section 31 fees charged to the Exchanges by the SEC and certain fees derived from our regulatory function and fines in connection with our disciplinary proceedings. The Exchanges are responsible for the ultimate payment of Section 31 fess to the SEC. Additionally, under the rules of each of our options exchanges, as required by the SEC, any revenue derived from the regulatory fees and fines cannot be used for non-regulatory purposes.

Section19 of the Exchange Act also provides that we must submit to the SEC proposed changes to any of the Exchanges’ rules, including revisions of their certificates of incorporation, bylaws, or other governing documents of the SROs or their parent companies. The SEC will typically publish the proposal for public comment, following which the SEC may approve or disapprove the proposal, as it deems appropriate. Certain categories of rule changes, like fee changes, can be effective on filing, but the SEC retains the ability to suspend or reject such filings within a prescribed period of time.

Futures and Swaps Industry-CFE and Cboe SEF

The operations of each of CFE and Cboe SEF are subject to regulation by the CFTC under the Commodity Exchange Act. The Commodity Exchange Act generally requires that futures trading in the United States be conducted on a designated contract market and, in some cases, requires swaps trading to be conducted on swap execution facility (“SEF”) or designated contract market (“DCM”). The Commodity Exchange Act and CFTC regulations establish criteria for an exchange to be designated as a contract market on which futures and futures options contracts may be traded, and for a trading platform to be designated as a swap execution facility on which certain swaps may be traded. Designation as a contract market or swap execution facility for the trading of specified futures or swaps contracts is non-exclusive. This means that the CFTC may permit additional exchanges or trading platforms to be contract markets or swap execution facilities for trading the same or similar contracts.





CFE is a designated contract market, and Cboe SEF is a swap execution facility, each of which is subject to the oversight of the CFTC and to a variety of ongoing regulatory and reporting responsibilities under the Commodity Exchange Act. As a designated contract market, CFE is required to comply with the applicable core principles and regulations under the Commodity Exchange Act, as is Cboe SEF as a swap execution facility. Each of CFE and Cboe SEF has surveillance and regulatory operations and procedures to monitor and enforce compliance by trading privilege holders with CFE rules, and by participants with Cboe SEF rules, as applicable. If CFE or Cboe SEF fails to comply with applicable laws, rules or regulations, it may be subject to censure, fines, cease-and-desist orders, suspension of its business, removal of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of CFE’s designation as a contract market or Cboe SEF’s designation as a swap execution facility.

Europe

Cboe Europe is located in London and is subject to regulation in the U.K. and to certain European regulations. The current U.K. regulatory system was established by the Financial Services Act 2012 (“FSA12”), which amended the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. The legislation replaced the previous financial services regulator, the Financial Services Authority, with three new bodies: The Financial Policy Committee (“FPC”), The Prudential Regulation Authority, and the FCA. Financial conduct of markets, including activity on, and the operation of, markets is regulated by the FCA, which is an independent non-governmental body, given statutory powers by the FSA12. The FCA has three statutory objectives: to secure an appropriate degree of protection for consumers; to protect and enhance the integrity of the U.K. financial system; and to promote effective competition in the interests of consumers in the markets for financial services. The FCA is accountable to Her Majesty’s Treasury Ministers and, through them, to Parliament.

Cboe NL is located in Amsterdam and subject to Dutch law and regulation. The current Dutch regulatory system was established by the Act on Financial Supervision. Financial conduct of markets, including activity on, and the operation of, markets is regulated by the AFM. The AFM is an independent non-governmental body, given statutory powers by the Act on Financial Supervision. The AFM has three strategic objectives: to promote the fair and conscientious provision of financial services, to promote the fair and efficient operation of the capital markets and to contribute to the stability of the financial system. The AFM is accountable to the Minister of Finance.

Much of the U.K. and Dutch financial services regulation originates from the European Union. Such regulation includes organizational requirements, capital resources requirements and the specific requirements for RMs and MTFs and are applicable to both Cboe Europe and Cboe NL. MiFID II and MiFIR set out requirements for RMs and MTFs with respect to the establishment of transparent and non-discretionary rules and procedures governing access and for fair and orderly trading and the efficient execution of orders, as well as to facilitate the efficient settlement of transactions conducted on RMs and MTFs and monitoring compliance with the rules. The regulatory functions required of Cboe Europe Equities by MiFID II, MiFIR and other relevant legislation and regulations are performed by in-house staff. Cboe Europe Equities utilizes the same state-of-the-art, real-time surveillance system is used on the U.S. to monitor trading and market activities on BZX, BYX, EDGA, and EDGX.

Global FX

While the global institutional spot FX market remains largely unregulated, the enactment of the Dodd Frank Act and its related regulations in the United States and the ongoing implementation of MiFID II and MiFIR in Europe have impacted the regulatory landscape for currency derivative products. For example, certain standardized currency derivative products are required to trade on an organized trading venue such as an SEF or DCM in the United States or on an MTF or OTF in Europe. Moreover, even in the largely unregulated spot FX market, this movement towards additional trading standards and norms is highlighted by the publication of the FX Global Code in 2017 by the Global Foreign Exchange Committee, reflecting principles of good conduct for the wholesale FX market, and whose publication may lead to additional oversight in the global FX market.

Broker-Dealer

Cboe Trading is a registered broker-dealer regulated by the SEC, FINRA, other SROs of which it is a member and various state securities regulators. Cboe Trading currently operates as a routing broker-dealer for sending orders from the





BZX, BYX, Cboe Options, C2, EDGX, and EDGA exchanges to other venues for execution, including routing orders among BZX, BYX, Cboe Options, C2, EDGX, and EDGA. Cboe Trading is considered a facility of BZX, BYX, Cboe Options, C2, EDGX, and EDGA and is subject to the rules of these exchanges. BZX, BYX, Cboe Options, C2, EDGX, and EDGA are responsible for enforcing Cboe Trading’s compliance with their rules, including to ensure Cboe Trading is not given preferential treatment.

Cboe Trading is subject to SEC and SRO rules and, as a registered broker-dealer, regulations concerning all aspects of its business, including trading practices, order handling, best execution, anti-money laundering, handling of material non-public information, safeguarding data, reporting, capital adequacy, record retention, market access and the conduct of its officers, employees and other associated persons. The SEC, SROs and state securities commissions may conduct proceedings which can result in injunctions or other sanctions, censures, fines, the issuance of cease and desist orders or the suspension or expulsion of a broker-dealer, its officers or employees. The SEC and FINRA impose certain minimum capital requirement rules that require notification when a broker-dealer’s net capital falls below certain predefined criteria, dictate the ratio of debt to equity in the regulatory capital composition of a broker-dealer, constrain the ability of a broker-dealer to expand its business under certain circumstances and impose certain requirements that may have the effect of prohibiting a broker-dealer from distributing or withdrawing capital.

Cboe Global Markets

and to Cboe Global Markets’ obligations to investors and the general public. The SEC also requires that Cboe Global Markets not take any actions that would interfere with the effectuation of any decisions by the board of directors of any of the Exchanges relating to its regulatory functions or the structure of the market that it regulates or that would interfere with the ability of such Exchange to carry out its responsibilities under the Exchange Act. To the extent that Cboe Global Markets’ business activities involve or relate to the Exchanges, the officers and directors of Cboe Global Markets may be deemed to be officers and directors of the exchanges for purposes of and subject to oversight under the federal securities laws. Accordingly, the SEC may exercise direct supervision and disciplinary authority over certain Cboe Global Markets’ activities and those activities may be subject to SEC approval and, in some cases, public notice and comment.

In addition, Cboe Global Markets indirectly holds all of the issued share capital and voting rights in Cboe Europe and its wholly owned subsidiaries, Cboe Chi-X Europe and Cboe NL. As a result, we and any person who holds, or has voting power with respect to, 10% or more of the outstanding shares of Cboe Global Markets common stockmay be subject to certain regulatory requirements under U.K. and Dutch law.

U.S. Regulatory Responsibilities

Our U.S.-based exchanges are responsible for assessing the compliance of their TPHs or members, including Cboe Trading, with the respective exchange’s rules and the applicable rules of the SEC and/or CFTC. The main activities that the exchanges, as applicable, are required to monitor for the purpose of compliance with these rules include:

●surveillance designed to detect violations of exchange trading rules;

●surveillance designed to detect violations of SEC and/or CFTC rules;

●investigation of matters deemed to be problematic;

●the investigation of complaints about possible rule violations brought by customers, TPHs, members or other SROs; and

●the examination of TPHs or members, including Cboe Trading, for compliance with rules such as those related to net capital, books and records, market access and other matters related to the TPHs’ exchange business functions.







In order to ensure market integrity, we regulate and monitor our TPHs’ and members’ trading activities by using both our employees and third parties under regulatory services agreements (“RSAs”). See “Regulatory Agreements” below. Providing effective regulation is important for attracting and retaining the confidence and participation of market-makers, broker-dealers and institutional and retail investors.

We expend considerable time, financial resources and effort to ensure that the exchanges’ rules and regulations conform to regulatory best practices within the securities and futures exchange industries and within the regulatory regime overseen by the SEC and CFTC, our primary regulators. In order to support our efforts and those of our market participants to comply with applicable law and our exchange rules, we developed a regulatory program to monitor market activity on our exchanges.

All of our Exchanges and CFE are participants in the Intermarket Surveillance Group (“ISG”). ISG is an international information-sharing cooperative governed by a written agreement that provides for a comprehensive surveillance sharing arrangement. In addition to the agreement for confidential information sharing, the ISG provides a framework for the coordination of regulatory efforts among exchanges trading securities, commodity futures and related products to address potential intermarket manipulations and trading abuses.

As part of the regulatory program, each of our Exchanges and CFE have rules pertaining to their respective disciplinary processes.

U.S. Regulatory Agreements

The Exchanges and CFE have entered into agreements under which third parties have agreed to perform regulatory functions on behalf of our markets, (e.g., RSAs). As discussed below, in addition, in certain other instances for our Exchanges, a third party has been allocated the regulatory responsibility under Rule 17d-1 or Rule 17d-2 under the Exchange Act, while in others, we retain the regulatory responsibility for the activities.

Regulatory Services Agreement with FINRA

The Exchanges have entered into agreements with FINRA under which FINRA has agreed to provide regulatory services to the Exchanges. Under these agreements, FINRA performs certain regulatory functions on behalf of the Exchanges. The Exchanges remain responsible for the regulation of their TPHs, members and marketplaces, and retain the authority for bringing disciplinary actions against their TPHs, members, although FINRA performs various disciplinary-related functions on behalf of the Exchanges.

Regulatory Services Agreements with NFA and OCC

The National Futures Association (“NFA”) performs regulatory functions on behalf of CFE pursuant to an RSA with CFE. CFE retains overall responsibility for the regulation of its marketplace. In addition, OCC also performs certain regulatory functions on behalf of CFE pursuant to an RSA with CFE. CFE also performs certain regulatory functions in-house. Whether performed under an RSA or in-house, CFE also remains responsible for bringing disciplinary actions. CFE is also a party to cooperative and regulatory information sharing agreements with other SROs and is a member of the ISG, described above.

Rule 17d-1 Designations and Rule 17d-2 Agreements

Section 17(d) of the Exchange Act and the related Exchange Act rules permit SROs to allocate certain regulatory responsibilities to avoid duplicative oversight and regulation. Under Exchange Act Rule17d-1, the SEC designates one SRO to be the designated examining authority (“DEA”) for each broker-dealer that is a member of more than one SRO. The DEA is responsible for the regulatory oversight of the Exchange Act’s financial responsibility rules pertaining to that broker-dealer. Cboe Options is the DEA for several of its TPHs. Cboe Trading’s assigned DEA is FINRA.

Exchange Act Rule 17d-2 permits SROs to enter into agreements, commonly called Rule 17d-2 agreements, which are approved by the SEC and concern the enforcement of rules applicable to all of those SROs and relating to TPHs and





members those SROs have in common. The Exchanges have entered into certain bi-lateral Rule 17d-2 agreements under which FINRA is allocated responsibility for enforcing certain federal securities laws and certain Exchange rules that are common with FINRA rules. The Exchanges have entered into certain other multi-party Rule 17d-2 agreements that allocate responsibility among the participating SROs, which may include the Exchanges, for ensuring that their allocated common members comply with certain rules governing, among other items, options related sales practices, options related market surveillance, insider trading and NMS compliance.

National Market System Plans

We are member participants of several NMS plans. Cboe Options, C2, BZX, and EDGX are member exchanges in OPRA, which is the designated securities information processor for market information that is generated through the trading of exchange-listed securities options in the United States, and it disseminates certain core trading information, such as last sale reports and quotations. Cboe Options, BZX, BYX, EDGA, and EDGX also participate in the CTA and the Nasdaq Unlisted Trading Privileges Plan, which perform analogous services for the U.S. equities market. NYSE Technologies acts as the “processor” for OPRA and CTA. Nasdaq acts as the processor for the Nasdaq Unlisted Trading Privileges Plan.

Cboe Options, C2, BZX, and EDGX are also parties to the Options Order Protection and Locked/Crossed Market Plan, which is designed to prohibit trade-throughs and avoid locked/crossed markets. Cboe Options, C2, BZX, and EDGX are also parties to the Options Listing Procedures Plan, which sets forth the procedures that the options exchanges must follow to list new options. Cboe Options, C2, BZX, BYX, EDGA, and EDGX are also parties to the NMS plan for the selection and reservation of securities symbols.

Under the Options Regulatory Surveillance Authority Plan (“ORSA Plan”), U.S. securities options exchanges are permitted to act jointly in the administration, operation and maintenance of a regulatory system for the surveillance, investigation and detection of the unlawful use of undisclosed, material information in trading in one or more of their markets. The ORSA Plan is intended to enhance the effectiveness and efficiency with which the exchanges regulate their respective markets and to avoid duplication of certain regulatory efforts. FINRA operates the ORSA Plan facility.





Intellectual Property

We own or have rights to a number of intellectual property assets, including trademarks, service marks, domain names, trade names, copyrights, trade secrets and patents. While the majority of our intellectual property is protected under U.S. law, we have many intellectual property assets protected by laws in Europe, Asia and other parts of the world. We license some intellectual property assets to other entities. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights, while respecting the legitimate intellectual property rights of others.

Employees

As of December 31, 2019, we employed 823individuals, 702 of whom are based in the United States, 93 of whom are located in London, 13 of whom are located in Ecuador, 9 of whom are located in the Netherlands, 3 of whom are located in Hong Kong, 2 of whom are located in Singapore, and 1 of whom is located in Switzerland. Of these employees, 267 were involved in technology or operations and 90 were involved in direct support of trading operations. The remaining 466 employees provide business development, financial, regulation, human resources, compliance, legal, planning and research, administrative and managerial support.

We have 8 building engineers that are covered by a collective bargaining agreement, which expires on May 31, 2021, with the International Union of Operating Engineers Local399, AFL-CIO. Management believes that we have strong relationships with our employees, and we have never experienced a work stoppage.

Information about our Executive Officers

Set forth below is information regarding our executive officers:

NameAgePositionEdward T. Tilly​56​Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive OfficerChristopher A. Isaacson​41​Executive Vice President and Chief Operating OfficerBrian N. Schell​54​Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and TreasurerJohn F. Deters​49​Executive Vice President, Chief Strategy OfficerBryan Harkins​43​Executive Vice President, Head of Markets DivisionDavid Howson​43​Executive Vice President, President EuropePatrick Sexton​55​Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate SecretaryJill M. Griebenow​40​Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer

​

Edward T. Tilly.Mr. Tilly is our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Tilly has served as our President since January 2019, Chairman since February 2017 and as CEO and director since May 2013. Prior to becoming CEO, Mr. Tilly served as President and Chief Operating Officer from November 2011, and Executive Vice Chairman from August 2006 until November 2011. He was a member of CBOE from 1989 until 2006, and served as Member Vice Chairman from 2004 through July 2006. He holds a B.A. degree in Economics from Northwestern University.

Christopher A. Isaacson. Mr. Isaacson is our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, a position he has held since January 2019. Previously he was our Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer, a position he was appointed to upon the Company’s acquisition of Bats. Prior to that, he served as Bats' Executive Vice President and Global Chief Information Officer since February 2014, he served as Bats' Senior Vice President and Chief Operation Officer from 2007 to 2014 and he has held other various senior leadership positions since 2005. Prior to being one of the founders of Bats, Mr. Isaacson was a software developer at Tradebot Systems, Inc. from 2003 to 2005. Mr. Isaacson serves on the board of directors of the OCC. Mr. Isaacson holds a B.S. degree in information systems with a minor in math from Nebraska Wesleyan University and an M.B.A. degree from the University of Nebraska-Lincoln.

Brian N. Schell.  Mr. Schell is our Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, a position he has held since January 2018. Previously, he was Deputy Chief Financial Officer of the Company’s subsidiary Cboe Exchange, Inc., a position he was appointed to upon the Company’s acquisition of Bats. Prior to that, he served as Chief





Financial Officer of Bats since March 2011. Prior to joining Bats, he held various senior leadership positions at H&R Block Inc., as well as various positions at the FDIC, KPMG and JP Morgan. Mr. Schell holds a B.B.A. degree with an emphasis in finance from the University of Notre Dame and an M.B.A. degree from The George Washington University.

John F. Deters.Mr. Deters is our Executive Vice President, Chief Strategy Officer, a position he has held since 2018. He has previously served as our Head of Multi-Asset Solutions from 2018 to 2019 and as Chief Strategy Officer from 2013 to 2018. Prior to joining Cboe in 2013, Mr. Deters was most recently a Vice President and Investment Banker of Financial Institutions Group, Investment Banking at Barclays from 2008 to 2013. Mr. Deters holds a B.A. degree from Wheaton College, an M.B.A. degree from the University of Chicago, and a J.D./M.S. dual degree from Georgetown University Law Center.

Bryan Harkins.Mr. Harkins is our Executive Vice President, Head of Markets Division, a position he has held since June 2019. He has also previously served as our Co-Head of Markets Division from March 2018 to June 2019.  Previously, he was Head of Equities and Global FX of the Company’s subsidiaries, a position he was appointed to upon the Company’s acquisition of Bats. Prior to that, he served as Executive Vice President, Head of U.S. Markets of Bats since January 2014. Prior to the Direct Edge acquisition by Bats in January 2014 when Mr. Harkins first joined Bats, Mr. Harkins served as Chief Operating Officer of Direct Edge, where he worked since 2007. Mr.Harkins holds a B.A. degree from the University of Notre Dame and an M.B.A. degree from New York University's Stern School of Business.

David Howson.  Mr. Howson is our Executive Vice President, President Europe, a position he has held since January 2020. Previously, he was Chief Operating Officer of Cboe Europe from 2013 to 2019. Prior to that, he served as Founder, Chief Technology Officer of Equiduct from April 2006 through June 2013. Mr. Howson holds a First Class Honours bachelor's degree from the University of Newcastle-upon-Tyne.

Patrick Sexton.Mr. Sexton is our Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary, a position he has held since March 2018. Previously, he was Deputy General Counsel of the Company’s subsidiary Cboe Exchange, Inc. He has served in that capacity since July 2013 and has acted as legal, regulatory and compliance counsel with increasing responsibility and oversight since joining the Company in 1997. Mr. Sexton holds a B.A. degree from the University of Notre Dame and a J.D. degree with honors from Notre Dame Law School.

Jill M. Griebenow.Ms. Griebenow is our Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer, a position she has held since August 2018. Previously, she served as Chief Financial Officer, Europe of the Company's subsidiary Cboe Europe, a position she was appointed to upon the Company’s acquisition of Bats. She also previously served as Chief Financial Officer, Europe of Bats’ subsidiary Bats Europe Limited since February 2014 and was employed by Bats in the financial area since 2011. Prior to that, she has also held various positions at Ernst & Young LLP. Ms. Griebenow is a certified public accountant and holds a bachelor's degree in accounting from the University of Northern Iowa.

Available Information

Our website is www.cboe.com. The Company files annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC under the Exchange Act. The Company makes available, free of charge, on its website its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. The Company's reports filed with, or furnished to, the SEC are also available on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov.

In addition, we have posted on our website the charters for our (i) Audit Committee, (ii) Compensation Committee, and (iii) Nominating and Governance Committee, as well as our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and Corporate Governance Guidelines. We will provide a copy of these documents without charge to stockholders upon written request to Investor Relations, Cboe Global Markets, Inc., 400 South LaSalle Street, Chicago, Illinois 60605. Our website and information included in or linked to our website are not part of this Form 10-K.









