Item 1.Business

Overview

CBOE Holdings, Inc. is the holding company for Chicago Board Options Exchange, Incorporated, C2 Options Exchange, Incorporated, CBOE Futures Exchange, LLC and other subsidiaries. CBOE Holdings builds on the legacy of CBOE, the creator of listed options and the largest U.S. options exchange.

The primary business of the Company is the operation of markets for the trading of listed options contracts on three broad product categories: 1) the stocks of individual corporations (equity options), 2) various market indexes (index options) and 3) other exchange-traded products such as  exchange-traded funds (ETF options) and exchange-traded notes (ETN options). We also offer futures and options on futures products through a futures market. The Company owns and operates three stand-alone exchanges, but reports the results of its operations in one reporting segment. CBOE is our primary market and offers trading for listed options through a single system that integrates electronic trading and traditional open outcry trading on our trading floor in Chicago. This integration of electronic trading and traditional open outcry trading into a single market is known as our Hybrid trading model. C2, launched in October 2010, is our all-electronic exchange that also offers trading for listed options, but with a different market model and fee schedule than CBOE. Finally, CFE, our all-electronic futures exchange, offers futures and options on futures on the CBOE Volatility Index (the VIX Index), as well as on other products.  All of our exchanges operate on our proprietary technology platform known as CBOEdirect.

The market for listed options has increased dramatically since their introduction by CBOE in 1973. In 1974, the first full year of trading, CBOE traded over 5.6 million contracts. In 1983, ten years after its inception, CBOE traded over 82 million contracts. By 1993, CBOE volume had grown to over 140 million contracts. In 2003, CBOE traded over 284 million contracts. In 2011, our most recent fiscal year, CBOE volume had grown to1.2billion contracts. In addition, the number of exchanges operating markets for the trading of exchange-traded options has expanded to nine options exchanges.

The following chart illustrates total options trading volume across the different categories of products traded at the Company for the periods indicated:

Annual Options Contract Volume20112010200920082007Equities516,136,937572,688,137634,710,477604,024,956500,964,713Indexes320,389,993269,989,511222,787,514259,499,726230,527,970Exchange-traded funds368,364,057276,362,700277,266,218329,830,388212,979,241Total1,204,890,9871,119,040,3481,134,764,2091,193,355,070944,471,924

Futures contracts traded at CFE have increased from 1.1 million in 2007 to12.0 millionin 2011.

Our operating revenues are primarily driven by transaction fee revenue with respect to the number of contracts traded on our exchanges. In order to increase the volume of contracts traded on our exchanges, we strive to develop and promote contracts designed to satisfy the trading, hedging and risk-management needs of our market participants. We also derive revenue from fees collected for access to our exchanges and from the sale of market data information.

Our principal executive offices are located at 400 South LaSalle Street, Chicago Illinois 60605, and our telephone number is (312) 786-5600.

Our web site iswww.cboe.com. Information contained on or linked through our web site is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

History

CBOE was founded in 1973 as a non-stock corporation owned by its Members. CBOE was the first organized marketplace for the trading of standardized, listed options on equity securities. In 2004, CBOE began to operate a futures exchange, CFE. CBOE Holdings was incorporated in the State of Delaware on August 15, 2006. In June 2010, CBOE demutualized (see "Restructuring Transaction") and CBOE, C2 and CFE became wholly-owned subsidiaries of CBOE Holdings. CBOE Holdings completed its initial public offering of its unrestricted common stock in June 2010. On October 29, 2010, C2, the Company's all-electronic exchange, initiated operations.











Restructuring Transaction

On June 18, 2010, CBOE converted from a non-stock corporation owned by its Members into a stock corporation that is a wholly-owned subsidiary of CBOE Holdings. In the restructuring transaction, each CBOE regular membership (an "Exchange Seat") owned by a CBOE Member on June 18, 2010 converted into 80,000 shares of Class A common stock of CBOE Holdings. Seat owners received a total of 74,400,000 shares of Class A common stock of CBOE Holdings in the restructuring transaction. In addition, certain persons who satisfied the qualification requirements set forth in the Settlement Agreement in the Delaware Action received a total of 16,333,380 shares of Class B common stock of CBOE Holdings on June 18, 2010. Pursuant to the Settlement Agreement, qualifying members of the plaintiff class received a cash payment of $300.0 million.

Immediately following the issuance of the Class A and Class B common stock, the board of directors of CBOE Holdings declared and paid a special dividend of $1.25 per outstanding share of Class A and Class B common stock, or $113.4 million in the aggregate.

The initial public offering of 13,455,000 shares of unrestricted common stock, including 2,085,774 shares of unrestricted common stock sold by selling stockholders, for a price of $29.00 per share, was completed on June 18, 2010. Net proceeds to the Company after deducting underwriter's fees and commissions and other related expenses were $301.2 million. Costs directly associated with the Company's initial public offering were recorded as a reduction of the gross proceeds received in arriving at the amount recorded in additional paid-in capital.

Upon consummation of the initial public offering, the shares of Class A and Class B common stock not converted into unrestricted common stock and sold in the initial public offering automatically converted into 44,323,803 shares of Class A-1 common stock and 44,323,803 shares of Class A-2 common stock.

The restructuring transaction, completed on June 18, 2010, converted CBOE from a non-stock company with Members into a wholly-owned subsidiary of CBOE Holdings, a corporation with stockholders. Members that owned an Exchange Seat became stockholders of CBOE Holdings. Following the restructuring transaction, access to CBOE was made available through trading permits rather than through the ownership of memberships (see "Market Model-Trading Permit Holders").

Tender Offers

On November 24, 2010, the Company completed two concurrent tender offers for 5,983,713 shares of Class A-1 common stock and 5,983,713 shares of Class A-2 common stock at a purchase price of $25.00 per share. The purpose of the tender offers was to allow Class A-1 and Class A-2 stockholders to obtain liquidity for a certain portion of their shares. Subsequent to the closing of the tender offers and automatic conversion of Class A-1 common stock, an additional 31,723 shares of unrestricted common stock and 18,746 shares of Class A-2 common stock were purchased by the Company due to a clerical adjustment. The net proceeds received from our initial public offering were used to purchase the shares of Class A-1 and Class A-2 common stock in the tender offers.

Conversion of Class A-1 and Class A-2 Common Stock

On December 15, 2010 and June 13, 2011, respectively, each share of Class A-1 and Class A-2 common stock issued and outstanding, totaling 38,340,090 and 38,297,994, respectively, converted into one share of unrestricted common stock, totaling76,638,084shares.  As a result, as of December 31, 2011, no shares of Class A-1 or Class A-2 common stock were outstanding.

Industry

Our primary business of offering exchange-traded options and futures is part of the large and growing global derivatives industry. Derivatives are financial contracts whose value is derived from some other underlying asset or reference value. These underlying assets and reference values include individual stocks, stock indexes, debt instruments, interest rates, currencies, commodities and various benchmarks related to trading and investment strategies. In recent years, derivatives have also been developed on economic indicators and "artificial" assets such as pollution rights. The global derivatives industry includes both exchanges and a large over-the-counter market. The most common types of derivatives are options, futures and swap contracts. These products allow for various types of risk to be isolated and transferred.

Exchange-Traded Options and Futures

Options represent a contract giving the buyer the right, but not the obligation, to buy or sell a specified quantity of an underlying security or index at a specific price for a specific period of time. Options provide investors a means for hedging, speculation and income generation, while at the same time providing leverage with respect to the underlying asset. Options on U.S. securities are traded privately between two parties (known as "over-the-counter" or "OTC" options), as well as traded on U.S. securities exchanges. The vast majority of derivatives traded on U.S. securities exchanges are options on individual









equities, market indexes and ETFs. Over-the-counter options that are traded also include options on individual equities, ETFs and indexes, including options on the S&P 500 Index.

Futures represent a contract in which the buyer and seller agree on a price today for a product to be delivered and paid for in the future. Each contract specifies the quantity of the item and the time of delivery or payment. An option on a futures contract is a right, but not an obligation, to buy or sell a futures contract at a specified price on or before a certain expiration date.

Trading

In the listed options market, there are currently options contracts covering approximately 3,300 underlying stocks, ETFs and indexes. The presence of dedicated liquidity providers, including both specialists and market-makers, is a key feature of the options markets. Specialists and market-makers provide continuous bids and offers for substantially all listed option series. In return for these commitments, specialists and market-makers receive margin exemptions as well as other incentives such as participation rights and fee incentives.

Until 2000, trading in options products on U.S. options exchanges traditionally occurred primarily on physical trading floors in areas called "pits" through an auction process known as "open outcry," which refers to face-to-face trading. Over the past decade, electronic access has allowed exchange participants, including those at CBOE, to provide electronic bids and offers without being physically present on the trading floor. Now, all of the U.S. options exchanges, either exclusively or in combination with open outcry trading, provide electronic trading platforms that allow participants to submit bids, offers and orders directly into the exchange's trading system. As a result, many liquidity providers now operate remotely, away from the physical trading floors, and the majority of options trading volume is executed electronically.

Trends

Consolidation

Perceived economies of scale have driven a wave of consolidation among exchange holding companies over the last several years. For example, NYSE Euronext now owns both NYSE Arca and NYSE Amex. Deutsche Borse has acquired the International Securities Exchange, and NASDAQ OMX owns both the Philadelphia Stock Exchange ("PHLX") and NASDAQ Options Market ("NOM"). While some recent transactions have failed to gain approval from foreign regulators, we believe competitive pressures and the scalability of trading platforms continue to provide a compelling rationale for further consolidation.

Maker-Taker Pricing Structure

Several options exchanges, including C2 for multiply-listed classes, utilize a different pricing model than CBOE, in which orders that take liquidity from the marketplace are charged a transaction fee, and orders that provide liquidity to the marketplace may receive a rebate for doing so, both dependent on origin type. This kind of fee schedule, known as "maker-taker," is attractive to participants who regularly provide liquidity but not necessarily to firms representing customer orders, as those orders are generally takers of liquidity.

High Frequency Trading

High frequency trading refers to the practice of entering buy and sell orders in rapid succession, often as many as thousands of orders per second. The strategies pursued by high frequency traders depend on sophisticated algorithms to spot trends before others can react to them and to exploit minor fluctuations in securities prices. Its practitioners are professional traders who typically use high-speed computers co-located at exchanges with direct connections to exchange order routing systems to reduce latency. High frequency trading has driven up trading volume on equity exchanges and is estimated to account for from 50% to 70% of stock trading. It currently plays a small but growing role in options markets and has led many exchanges to create a new category of market participant known as professional customer, which enables those exchanges to charge different fees than on other customer orders.

Competitive Strengths

We have established ourselves as a global leader and innovator in the options industry. We believe we are well positioned to further enhance our leadership position  through several key competitive strengths:

•Leading Brand, Reputation and Market Position.As the world's first options exchange, CBOE's leadership role in options trading is recognized worldwide. We are one of the largest options exchanges in the world and the largest options exchange in the U.S., based on both contract volume and notional value. Our opinions and positions on industry issues are sought by regulators, elected officials, industry and finance leaders and policy









experts worldwide.

•Innovation and Product Development.In addition to being the original marketplace for standardized, exchange-traded options, we created the world's first index options and have been the source of many other innovations with respect to products, systems and market structure in the options industry.

•Innovation—We work closely and collaboratively with market participants to introduce new products and services to meet the evolving needs of the derivatives industry. We have introduced innovative products such as index options, options and futures on the VIX Index and other volatility indexes, Long-Term Equity Anticipation Securities ("LEAPS") and FLEX options.  Our option strategy benchmark indexes, such as the CBOE S&P 500 BuyWrite Index, the CBOE S&P 500 PutWrite Index, and the CBOE S&P 500 Implied Correlation Index, have received industry awards for innovation.

•Exclusive Products —We have the exclusive right to list securities options based on the S&P 500, the S&P 100 and the DJIA indexes and have created our own proprietary indexes and index methodologies, including the VIX Index. Some of our exclusive products are among the most actively traded products on CBOE and in the industry. Our proprietary indexes and index methodologies provide benchmarks for options users and investment product issuers, serve as the basis for our exclusive products and provide us with licensing revenue.

•Hybrid Trading Model.Our Hybrid trading model on CBOE integrates open outcry and electronic trading into a single market. We believe that this innovative approach offers our users more choices, a diverse pool of liquidity and the ability to execute complex strategies that may not be available on purely screen-based trading systems.

•Leading Proprietary Technology Platform.We own, operate and maintain our core trading and information technology and systems, and we continue to commit substantial resources towards ongoing development and implementation of these capabilities. Market participants rely on our technology and infrastructure, which provides a high level of availability and reliability. We believe the CBOEdirecttrading platform is among the most advanced trading platforms in the world. It can simultaneously support both screen and floor-based trading for multiple trading models, products and matching algorithms. The technology underlying CBOEdirectis designed for extremely high performance, capable of handling over a million transactions a second with micro-second response time. It is built on open standards providing platform independence and is designed to be scalable for both capacity and throughput.

•Liquidity.We support the options trading activities of Trading Permit Holders, i.e. individuals or firms that hold trading permits (TPH organizations). We believe that this diverse pool of liquidity providers, in combination with our broad range of products, Hybrid trading model and the CBOEdirecttrading platform, offers our users the liquid markets they require to effectively execute their trading strategies.

•Experienced Management Team.Our management team has extensive experience in the options industry. William J. Brodsky, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, has over 35 years of experience with exchange management and derivative products. The remaining seven members of the senior management team have an average of over 25 years of experience in the options industry. Our management team has demonstrated an ability to grow our business through continued product and technological innovations and to respond to changing industry dynamics through ongoing adaptation of our market model.

Growth Strategy

Trading in derivative products has expanded at a rapid pace over the past several years as a result of a number of factors including technological advances that have increased investor access, declining costs to users, globalization and greater understanding of the products by increasingly sophisticated market participants. The Company is well positioned to leverage its competitive strengths to take advantage of these trends.

We intend to further expand our business and increase our revenues and profitability by pursuing the following growth strategies:

•Continue to Enhance Our Market Model and Trading Platform.We recognize that the opportunity to participate in the growth of the derivative markets will be driven in great part by the trading functionality and systems capabilities that an exchange offers to market participants. We believe our Hybrid trading model offers flexibility to market participants, while the CBOEdirecttrading platform offers state-of-the-art functionality, speed, performance, capacity and reliability. We intend to use our strong in-house development capabilities and continued investment to further augment the functionality and capacity of our trading systems. We launched C2, a second, all-electronic options market that currently trades substantially all of the industry's leading multiply-listed









products. C2, which also uses the CBOEdirecttrading platform, operates under a separate exchange license with its own board of directors, rules, connectivity, systems architecture and access structure.

•Develop Innovative Products.We intend to continue to build on our reputation as an industry innovator through the development of new and innovative products. We intend to use licensed products and proprietary intellectual property to create exclusive products that meet the needs of the derivatives industry and enhance our brand. We anticipate that our new and innovative products will help drive trading volumes by attracting new customers to our exchanges and expanding the array of products available to existing customers. In addition, we believe our continuing product innovations will generate increased use of our other products, in the same way that VIX products and the CBOE S&P 500 BuyWrite Index have generated additional trading activity in SPX.

•Offer Compelling Economic Model.Our fee schedule provides benefits to market participants who concentrate their overall trading activity, whether market-maker, agency or firm proprietary, on CBOE.  We believe that our fee structure encourages market participants to increase their business at CBOE by reducing the per contract fee or increasing per contract incentives based on the attainment of certain monthly volume thresholds.  We regularly review and update our fee schedule to provide an industry-leading economic offering.

•Over-the-Counter Market Participants.We seek to attract participants from the over-the-counter market, who have been under pressure to move trading to a centrally cleared and centrally traded environment. CFLEX, our electronic system for trading FLEX options, allows participants to customize key contract terms including strike price, exercise style and expiration dates of up to fifteen years with the administrative ease and clearing guarantees of standardized listed options. We expect to launch a new version of CFLEX in 2012 that will enable users to conveniently access FLEX options, which is of particular appeal to dealers who are active in OTC equity options.

•Expand Service Offerings.We believe there are significant opportunities to derive revenue from new and expanded service offerings. For example, our subsidiary, Market Data Express, LLC ("MDX") sells historical options data, value-added proprietary information and a real-time data-feed of certain S&P and CBOE index values to market data users. In 2011, MDX increased its service offerings with CBOE Streaming Markets("CSM"). CSM is a high-availability, low latency streaming data feed, with data similar to market data from the Options Price Reporting Authority ("OPRA") but also includes complex quotes and trades, breakdown of customer versus non-customer contracts at the best displayed bids and offers ("BBOs") and contingent order information. In addition, through a set of arrangements with S&P, we permit S&P to license the Company's proprietary indexes and index methodologies for certain purposes to securities firms and other exchanges. The Company and S&P have agreed that S&P may license one or more clearing agencies to clear OTC options based on the S&P 500 index that meet certain criteria, and that S&P will compensate us for any transaction cleared under such a license based on the notional value of the transaction.

•Pursue Select Strategic Opportunities.We evaluate strategic opportunities that we believe will enhance stockholder value.  We specifically look for strategic opportunities beyond our current businesses that will capitalize on our core competencies and diversify our sources of revenue.

Products

Our options exchanges provide a marketplace for the trading of options contracts that meet criteria established in rules of the respective exchange. The options contracts listed for trading include options on individual equities, options on various market indexes as well as options on ETFs and ETNs. In addition, we provide marketplaces for trading futures contracts and cash equities through CFE and CBOE Stock Exchange, LLC ("CBSX"), respectively. CBSX is not a consolidated subsidiary of the Company.

•Equity Options.We offer trading in options with terms of up to nine months on the stocks of over 2,600 corporations. The stocks underlying our individual equity options are listed on equity exchanges. In addition, we also offer trading in LEAPS on approximately 800 stocks with terms of up to thirty-nine months.

•Index Options.We offer trading in options on six different broad-based market indexes, including the VIX Index, a proprietary index that we have developed, which has become a widely recognized measure of equity market volatility. The index options we list include some of the most widely recognized measures of the U.S. equity markets, such as the S&P 500, the DJIA, the NASDAQ 100 and the Russell 2000. Options based on indexes are among our most actively traded products, with several options listed exclusively with us (for example, options on the S&P 500, S&P 100, DJIA and the VIX Index). We also trade LEAPS on several of our index products.

•Options on ETFs and ETNs.We offer trading in options on over 260 ETFs and ETNs based on various domestic and foreign market indexes, as well as on commodities, currencies and fixed income instruments. We also offer









trading in LEAPS on 84 ETFs and ETNs.

•Futures.We provide a marketplace for trading futures through our wholly-owned subsidiary, CFE. To date, CFE has focused on the trading of futures and options on futures related to CBOE-created volatility indexes.

•Equities.In early 2007, the Company invested, along with several broker dealers, in a new exchange that provides a marketplace for individual equity securities.  This trading facility, known as CBSX, provides a marketplace for trading stocks listed on equity exchanges. As stated above, CBSX is not a consolidated subsidiary of the Company.

Proprietary Products

The Company has developed several of its own proprietary indexes and index methodologies. These include volatility based on various broad-based market indexes (such as the S&P 500, the DJIA, the NASDAQ 100 and the Russell 2000), volatility indexes based on ETFs and individual stocks, the CBOE S&P 500 Implied Correlation Index and a series of option strategy benchmarks, including BuyWrite, PutWrite and Collar indexes based on the S&P 500 and BuyWrite indexes based on other broad-based market indexes. We also have licensed others to use some of these indexes to create products and have entered into agreements whereby we have granted to others the rights to sub-license some of these indexes. The Company generates revenue from the calculation and dissemination of over thirty real-time index values for third party licensors and from the licensing of our proprietary indexes.

Strategic Relationships

The Company also has long-term business relationships with several providers of market indexes. We license their indexes as the basis for index options. In some instances, these licenses provide us with the exclusive right to list options contracts based on these indexes. Of particular note are the following:

•S&P 500 and S&P 100 Indexes.We are able to offer options contracts on the S&P 500 Index and the S&P 100 Index as a result of a licensing arrangement with Standard & Poor's Financial Services LLC. Under our license with Standard & Poor's, CBOE and C2 have the exclusive right to list options on these indexes until 2018 and the right to use these and several other indexes published by Standard & Poor's as the basis for standardized, exchange-traded options contracts until 2022.

•DJIA.We are able to offer contracts on the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) as a result of a licensing arrangement with CME Group Index Services LLC ("Index Services"). This license provides us the right to use the DJIA and several other indexes published by Index Services as the basis for standardized, exchange-traded options contracts. Under the license, the Company has the exclusive right to list securities options on the DJIA during standard U.S. trading hours until December 31, 2012. Each party has the right to extend the exclusive license on the DJIA until 2017 and the Company expects the agreement to be extended.

•NASDAQ 100.We are able to offer contracts on the NASDAQ 100 Index as a result of a licensing arrangement with NASDAQ. This license provides CBOE the right to use the NASDAQ 100 as the basis for standardized, exchange-traded options contracts. The license with NASDAQ is non-exclusive and is effective until the end of 2015.

•Russell Indexes.We are able to offer contracts on the Russell 2000 and other indexes in the Russell index family as a result of a licensing arrangement with Frank Russell Co. This license provides CBOE the right to use the Russell indexes as the basis for standardized, exchange-traded options contracts. This license is non-exclusive and is effective through the end of 2012.

Market Model

CBOE and C2 provide a reliable, orderly, liquid and efficient marketplace for the trading of options. CBOE operates a quote-driven auction market that employs a combination of specialists, market-makers, floor brokers and electronic access permit firms (order flow providers), while C2 employs market-makers and electronic access permit firms (order flow providers) only. At CBOE, DPMs (see definition below) are specialists that are charged with maintaining fair, orderly and continuous markets in specific option classes, either from the trading floor or remotely. In certain heavily traded classes, CBOE assigns multiple remote-only specialists (eDPMs) to enhance CBOE's competitive position in that product. Both DPMs and eDPMs trade for their own accounts and are not permitted to act as agent on behalf of customers, although they may be affiliated with large financial companies that also operate agency businesses. Market-makers, operating from remote locations or in-person on the trading floor, supplement the liquidity provided by the specialists by quoting both bids and offers for their own accounts in their assigned classes. Floor brokers act as agents on the trading floor to facilitate primarily large or complicated orders that customers choose not to direct to the electronic system.

CBOE and C2 offer different but complementary market models, offering customers and participants a broad range of









choices.

•CBOE operates a Hybrid trading platform that combines an electronic trading system, supported by CBOEdirect, together with a traditional open-outcry trading floor. The matching algorithm is modified pro-rata, with customer priority. CBOE's modified pro-rata algorithms grant liquidity providers, who meet certain criteria, additional participation rights, based on a variety of factors. CBOE utilizes a pricing model in which transaction fees are charged to most professionals, including market-makers, but are not charged for most retail customer orders.

•C2 operates on CBOEdirect, a fully electronic platform. The matching algorithm from inception until November 2011 was a modified price-time algorithm for multiply-listed options classes. The matching algorithm was changed in November 2011 to pro-rata for multiply-listed options classes. C2 uses a maker-taker pricing model for multiply-listed options products in which orders that take liquidity from the marketplace are charged a transaction fee and orders that provide liquidity to the marketplace receive a rebate.

Market Participants

Direct access to the CBOE marketplace is granted to individuals and firms through trading permits. A trading permit entitles the holder to conduct business on the exchange in one of the participant roles described below. On C2, only firms can obtain trading permits.

•Market-Maker.A market-maker is an individual or firm that engages in trading our products either for its own account or for the account of its firm. A market-maker may operate on the trading floor or remotely. Market-makers do not act as an agent representing customer orders. Market-makers have certain quoting obligations in their appointed product classes. Like stock specialists, they are granted margin relief to ensure they can conduct business without requiring excessive amounts of capital. Market-makers must have a relationship with a clearing firm that will hold and guarantee their positions. When a person is referred to as a "trader," it typically implies that the individual acts as a market-maker. The majority of trading permits in use on CBOE are used for market making.

•Lead Market-Maker, or LMM.An LMM is a market-maker that assumes special obligations with respect to providing electronic and/or open outcry quotes for specific options classes at CBOE. Currently, LMMs are utilized in three roles: a) as electronic and open outcry quote providers in S&P 500 Index ("SPX") options, b) as electronic and open outcry quote providers in S&P 100 Index ("OEX" and "XEO") options, and c) in certain classes where an off-floor DPM is in operation and providing electronic markets only, to ensure that trading floor personnel can always obtain verbal markets. In the latter two, the LMMs receive participation rights, both electronic and in open outcry for (b) and in open outcry only for (c). In SPX, LMMs do not receive participation rights, and multiple LMMs are appointed who rotate each expiration cycle, with at least two quoting at any given time. All LMMs are required to maintain a physical presence in the trading crowd of their appointed classes.

•Floor Broker.An individual who represents orders on the CBOE trading floor as an agent is known as a floor broker. Floor brokers generally do not trade for their own account and do not receive any margin benefit. They generate revenue by charging commissions to their customers for their services. A floor broker may represent orders for his firm's proprietary account provided it is done in accordance with CBOE rules.

•Designated Primary Market-Maker, or DPM.A DPM is a market-maker firm that has been assigned specialist responsibilities in certain options classes at CBOE. As such, the term "DPM" and "specialist" are used interchangeably in this document. Although they may be affiliated with a firm that conducts an agency business, DPMs trade for their own account and are not permitted to act as agent on behalf of customers. DPMs are obligated to provide continuous quotes in their appointed classes but at a higher standard than that of regular market-makers. DPMs are also expected to participate in business development efforts to attract business to CBOE for their appointed classes. Like market-makers, they receive margin relief. DPMs also are granted "participation rights" in their appointed classes. Participation rights guarantee DPMs a minimum share of each trade for which they are on the best market. As of December 31, 2011, there were eight on-floor DPM firms covering approximately 1,602 classes across eighteen different trading crowds and eight off-floor DPMs covering approximately 1,485 classes across eight trading posts.

•Electronic Designated Primary Market-Maker, or eDPM.An eDPM is a market-maker that has been assigned specialist responsibilities similar to a DPM but only operates remotely, not on the trading floor. They also are granted participation rights in their appointed classes but at a lower level than that of DPMs, reflecting their slightly lesser obligations. eDPMs serve to supplement the role of the DPM and are also motivated to engage in business development efforts in their appointed classes. The appointments and class allocations granted to DPMs and eDPMs are not permanent and may be revoked or reassigned for cause. As of December 31, 2011, there are









five eDPM firms at CBOE, covering 469 classes.

•Member Firm.The term "member firm" is typically used to refer to those firms that bring order flow to the exchanges and that are Trading Permit Holders for the purpose of executing their customers' orders on the CBOE or C2 marketplace. These firms are also referred to as "order flow providers." They generate revenue by charging commissions for their services to their customers and in some cases through the receipt of payment for their order flow.

Several of the functions described above, namely, market-maker, DPM, eDPM and LMM, are often grouped together as "liquidity providers." This name refers to the fact that they all provide liquidity to the options market through their various obligations to provide to the marketplace two-sided quotes at which they are obligated to trade. Any of these liquidity providers may be designated as a preferred market-maker by a member firm routing an order to CBOE. The preferred market-maker is afforded a participation right on specific orders provided that he or she meets certain other requirements with respect to the relevant option class and quoting obligations.

Trading Permit Holders

Purchasing a monthly Market-Maker Trading Permit (CBOE, C2), Electronic Access Permit (CBOE, C2) or Floor Broker Trading Permit (CBOE) for the respective exchange conveys "Trading Permit Holder" status on the respective exchange to the permit holder. For CBOE, additional tier appointments are required to act as a market-maker in SPX options or as a market-maker or floor broker in VIX options. For C2, an additional tier appointment is required to act as a market-maker in SPXpm, an electronic version of our S&P 500 option product with p.m. settlement.

Trading Permit Holders are broker-dealers and may include large banks, proprietary trading firms, brokerages and investment houses and clearing firms. Trading on our open outcry trading floor is conducted exclusively by Trading Permit Holders in Chicago. Trading Permit Holders can execute trades for their own accounts, for clearing firm accounts, for the accounts of other permit holders or for the accounts of customers of clearing firms.

Trading Permit Holder status enables a market-maker to submit electronic quotes into the trading system on CBOE or C2 or make markets in open outcry on CBOE. Trading Permit Holder status allows Floor Brokers on CBOE to conduct business on the Exchange Floor or enter orders into the trading system. Trading Permit Holder status for Electronic Access Permits allows the holder to enter electronic orders into the trading system. A broker/dealer can apply for and hold a trading permit at CBOE, C2 or both—depending on the products intended to be traded. Rights and privileges of trading permits are exchange-specific.

Trading Permits:

•Market-Maker Trading Permit Holders (CBOE, C2)—The Market-Maker Trading Permit entitles the holder to act as a market-maker (including a market-maker trading remotely), DPM, eDPM or LMM on the respective exchange, if applicable on such exchange. This permit provides an appointment credit of 1.0 (which is a measure of how many classes the Trading Permit Holder can quote), a quoting and order entry bandwidth allowance, up to three logins, trading floor access and Trading Permit Holder status. Trading all classes listed on CBOE requires a minimum of thirty-three permits.

The quoting bandwidth allowance for a Market-Maker Trading Permit is equivalent to a maximum of 31.2 million quotes over the course of a trading day. To the extent a market-maker is able to submit electronic quotes in a Hybrid 3.0 class (such as an LMM that streams quotes in the class or a market-maker or LMM that streams quotes in a series of a Hybrid 3.0 class that trades on the Hybrid Trading System), the market-maker receives the quoting bandwidth allowance to quote in, and only in, that class.

•Electronic Access Permit ("EAP") (CBOE, C2)—The EAP entitles the holder to electronic access to the exchange. Holders must be broker-dealers registered with the exchange in one or more of the following capacities: (a) Clearing Trading Permit Holder; (b) Trading Permit Holder organization approved to transact business with the public; (c) Proprietary Trading Permit Holder; and (d) order service firm. The CBOE EAP permit does not provide access to the trading floor. A Proprietary Trading Permit Holder is a Trading Permit Holder with electronic access to the exchanges to submit proprietary orders that are not market-maker orders (i.e. that are not market-maker orders for the Proprietary Trading Permit Holder's own account or an affiliated market-maker account). The EAP provides an order entry bandwidth allowance, up to three logins and Trading Permit Holder Status.

•Floor Broker Trading Permit (CBOE)—The Floor Broker Trading Permit entitles the holder to act as a Floor Broker. This permit provides an order entry bandwidth allowance, up to three logins, trading floor access and Trading Permit Holder Status. A "Floor Broker" is a Trading Permit Holder who can act as a broker for other Trading Permit Holders or registered broker-dealers as an agent on the floor of the exchange.









Tier Appointments

In order for a Market-Maker Trading Permit to be used to act as a market-maker in either SPX, VIX or SPXpm, the Trading Permit Holder must obtain a "Tier Appointment" for the respective option class. Each Tier Appointment is class-specific.  Tier Appointments are exchange-specific.

Applicants for Trading Permit Holder Status

Applicants for Trading Permit Holder status must have adequate financial resources and credit to assume the responsibilities and privileges of Trading Permit Holder status. All Trading Permit Holders must understand the rules and regulations of the applicable exchange and agree to abide by them. Additionally, they must comply with the provisions of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations issued by the SEC.

Our Regulatory Services Division is the investigative arm of our exchanges with regard to exchange rules. Trading Permit Holders who are found to have violated a rule can be subject to sanctions such as fines, trading suspensions and/or expulsion from the particular exchange.

CFE

Parties are required to have CFE Trading Privilege Holder status in order to have trading privileges on CFE.  CFE has the flexibility to establish different trade allocation methods in its products. For example, the trade allocation method for VIX futures is price-time priority. CFE also has the flexibility to appoint designated primary market markers (DPMs) and to establish market maker programs in its products. In light of the level of liquidity in VIX futures, CFE no longer has a DPM in VIX futures and does not currently have a market maker program in that product.

Trading Privilege Holders are required to pay a monthly access fee in addition to transaction fees for transactions on the exchange. CFE Trading Privilege Holders who are also CBOE Trading Permit Holders are eligible for certain lower transaction fees.

Hybrid Trading Model

Most options are traded on CBOE both electronically and in open outcry using its Hybrid trading model. Both C2 and CFE are all-electronic exchanges.

We developed the first Hybrid trading model, in which aspects of both open outcry and electronic trading are integrated to function as a single market. This trading model is supported by state-of-the-art technology, including the CBOEdirecttrading platform. Since we began operating our Hybrid trading model in 2003, a significant portion of the volume in our products has migrated to electronic execution.

The Hybrid trading model enables CBOE market-makers to employ their own, individual pricing models and to stream their own individual quotes and orders into the CBOE trading engine. CBOE market-makers present on the trading floor are able to both stream their quotes into CBOE's central trading engine and to participate in open outcry transactions effected in their trading crowd. Our Hybrid trading model allows CBOE to offer both electronic and open outcry trading models simultaneously without sacrificing the benefits each brings.

At the core of the Hybrid trading model are the matching algorithms, which is the means by which trades are executed and allocated to market participants. CBOE's technology and rules provide for a variety of different algorithms for matching buyers and sellers. CBOE has the ability to apply different matching algorithms to different products, and currently has two different algorithms in operation for various products. Each matching algorithm is designed to meet the needs of a particular market segment. The setting of the matching algorithm affects the share of each trade that a market participant receives and is central to the opportunity and profit potential of market-makers and other liquidity providers.

Our Hybrid trading system calculates the National Best Bid and Offer ("NBBO"), and orders are not executed at a price inferior to the displayed NBBO except pursuant to limited exceptions provided in CBOE's rules. The system monitors all other option marketplaces, and it has the capability to route orders to other marketplaces for execution if a better price exists elsewhere. This linkage model is based on the Regulation NMS (National Market System) inter-market linkage structure that exists for U.S. equity trading. The structure requires price protection of the exchanges' BBO when they are at the NBBO and utilizes Intermarket Sweep Orders ("ISOs") to trade multiple prices at multiple exchanges nearly simultaneously. Undisplayed bids and offers and bids and offers at prices that are inferior to an exchange's BBO do not receive protection under this plan.

The Hybrid trading system also supports off-floor participants, including remote market making, off-floor DPMs and eDPMs. Currently, eDPMs make markets in approximately 450 classes.

Our market model continues to evolve and expand as we innovate and adapt to changes in the marketplace. Details on our









technological capabilities, as well as key systems offerings available to customers, are described in "Technology."

Competition

CBOE is the largest options exchange in the U.S. based on both total contract volume and notional value of contracts traded. The market share for all options traded on U.S. exchanges over the past five years for CBOE and C2, combined, has ranged from26.4%to 33.3% annually. For 2011, our market share was26.4%.

The U.S. options industry is extremely competitive. We compete with a number of registered national securities exchanges and may compete with other exchanges or other trading venues in the future. The seven other U.S. options exchanges that are our primary direct competitors are BATS Options, BOX, ISE, NYSE Arca, NYSE Amex, NASDAQ OMX PHLX and NOM.

Competition among options exchanges has intensified since CBOE was created in 1973, and we expect this trend to continue. We compete with a number of entities on several different fronts, including the cost, quality and speed of our trade execution, the functionality and ease of use of our trading platform, the range of our products and services, our technological innovation and adaptation and our reputation. Our principal competitors are the seven other U.S. options exchanges. We also compete against futures exchanges trading similar products and other financial institutions that write over-the-counter derivatives. There are three futures exchanges that offer competing products. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act ("Dodd-Frank") legislation creates a category of marketplaces called a Swap Execution Facility ("SEF"). SEFs will serve as a market places for the matching of swap transactions. We expect to compete against SEFs to attract OTC participants.

Most equity options and options on ETFs listed and traded on CBOE and C2 are also listed and traded on other U.S. options exchanges. Some order-providing firms on our exchanges have taken ownership positions in other options exchanges that compete with us, which may give those firms an added incentive to direct orders to the exchanges in which they have ownership. In addition, several options exchanges utilize a pricing model in which orders that take liquidity from the marketplace are charged a transaction fee, and orders that provide liquidity to the marketplace may receive a rebate for doing so, both dependent on origin type. This type of fee schedule, known as "maker-taker," is attractive to participants who regularly provide liquidity but not necessarily to firms representing customer orders, as those orders are disproportionately takers of liquidity.

Our competitive challenge is to convince broker-dealers to route options orders to CBOE or C2 rather than to our competitors and to convince liquidity providers to concentrate their market making activity on our exchanges. This is particularly true with respect to options on individual equity securities and ETFs, which tend to be traded on multiple exchanges. We compete through a variety of methods, including:

•Offering market participants an efficient, transparent and liquid marketplace for trading options both through traditional open outcry methods and through our electronic platform, CBOEdirect;

•Providing advanced technology that offers broad functionality, significant bandwidth, fast execution, ease of use, scalability, reliability and security;

•Offering participants access to a broad array of products and services, including proprietary products;

•Offering customers a deep, liquid market with trading mechanisms to enable potential price improvement;

•Offering liquidity providers and order flow providers a compelling economic model;

•Facilitating payment for order flow through the administration of marketing fees;

•Offering market participants potential participation rights for order flow that they direct or cause to be directed to our exchanges; and

•Providing brokers and their customers with a complete source of information on options as well as extensive options education.

Technology

Our technology supports trading on multiple exchanges: CBOE, C2, CFE, CBSX and OneChicago. Our systems can simultaneously support multiple trading models and multiple matching algorithms per exchange. For example, different products could trade simultaneously using open outcry, screen based or a Hybrid model. Within these trading models, different products can be traded using different matching algorithms. CBOEdirectalso supports trading options on futures. We have licensed our platform for use by CBSX and OneChicago.









Trading Platform

CBOEdirect,the central platform for our Hybrid trading system, was launched in 2003. The CBOEdirectplatform integrates the CBOEdirecttrading engine with the routing, display systems and broker handling systems that support the trading floor. It provides features of screen-based and floor-based trading in what we believe is a "best of both worlds" market model.

CBOE uses a quote-driven market model where liquidity providers have quoting obligations. The CBOEdirecttrade engine includes the match engine, order book and quote processor. CBOEdirectaccepts orders on behalf of all market participants and streaming quotes from market-makers, DPMs, eDPMs and LMMs.

CBOEdirectfunctionality includes: multiple allocation algorithms, a complex order book, preferenced orders, several auction mechanisms, Quote Lock, Quote Risk Monitor and User Input Monitor. The various allocation algorithms are configurable by product.

CBOEdirect'sunderlying technology is a Java application with an infrastructure designed for high performance and is designed to be scalable for capacity and throughput. CBOEdirectis capable of accommodating significantly more than the over 3,000 options classes and over 300,000 options series currently trading on it. In addition to simple orders, our systems support trading spreads and other complex orders, as well as options that expire weekly. In 2011, the Company transmitted to OPRA peaks of over 990,000 quotes per second.

CBOEdirect'sdesign allows for a quick introduction of different types of derivative and securities products, including options, futures, options on futures and stock products. In addition, our system facilitates different trading models, allowing us to provide both a floor-based model and a screen-based model.

CBOEdirectprovides application programming interfaces, or APIs, to facilitate both quote and order entry as well as auction processing. These include a proprietary API called CBOE Market interface ("CMi") and the industry-standard Financial Information Exchange ("FIX").

In 2012, CBOE plans to launch CFLEX 2.0, built on the CBOEdirecttrade engine. It will be the first trading system for FLEX options that is fully integrated with standard option trading capability.

Order Routing, Trade Match, Ticker Plant and Market Data

The order routing system allows Trading Permit Holders to use FIX or CMi.

The Trade Match system uses CBOEdirecttechnology. It sends matched trades to the OCC, which settles and clears the trades. The Trade Match system provides matched trade information to clearing firms via CBOEdirecttechnology. Brokers have access to their trades and related account information via a web-based interface or through an API.

The ticker plant, XTP, takes in market data feeds from CTS/CQS, OPRA, NASDAQ, the CME Group, Inc. and other sources and disseminates the data internally to other systems on a publish/subscribe basis. XTP's most recent processing peak was 3.8 million messages per second, or MPS, inbound from the OPRA, with over 14.6 billion messages per day.

The system disseminates options market data to OPRA and to Trading Permit Holders via FIX, CMi and CSM. CSM is a new high speed multicast feed for distribution of current market data. The system also uses Ticker Express to provide fast, accurate market data to Trading Permit Holders.

CFE disseminates futures market data via the CBOE Financial Network ("CFN"), our futures market data network.

Our fully integrated real-time system tracks electronic trading for Help Desk troubleshooting and regulatory analysis. We have invested in an extensive data warehouse with terabytes of historical trading data that provides fast and easy access to data for analysis.

Disaster Recovery

With two options exchanges, we have multiple data center locations running on the same technology platform. We use a remote data center to provide a point of redundancy for our CBOE and CFE exchanges. Our remote facility fully replicates our primary CBOE data center and is designed to ensure the operation of our platform's functionality in the face of external threats, unforeseen disasters or internal failures. In the event of an emergency, CBOE Trading Permit Holders connecting to the CBOE trading platform can route to the back-up facility. Our primary data center continuously collects and saves all trade information and periodically transmits it to the back-up facility. For that reason, we expect that our disaster recovery system would have current, and in most cases real-time, information in the event of a platform outage. In the event that we were required to complete a changeover to a back-up disaster facility, we anticipate that our platform would experience minimal downtime.









Clearing System

The OCC acts as the issuer, counterparty and guarantor for all options contracts traded on our options exchanges and other U.S. options exchanges. Upon execution of an option trade, we transmit to the OCC a record of all trading activity for clearing and settlement purposes. The OCC fulfills these same functions for futures products traded on the CFE.

Market Data

Our markets generate valuable information regarding the prices of our products and the trading activity in those markets. Market data relating to price and size of market quotations and the price and size of trades is collected and consolidated by OPRA. OPRA disseminates the information to vendors who redistribute the data to brokers, investors and other persons or entities that use our markets or that monitor general economic conditions, such as financial information providers, broker-dealers, banks, futures commission merchants, public and private pension funds, investment companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, hedge funds, commodity pools, individual investors and other financial services organizations. After costs are deducted, the fees collected are distributed among exchange participants based on their cleared transactions pursuant to the OPRA Plan. As of December 2011, our market data was displayed on approximately 170,000 terminals worldwide. See "Regulatory Environment and Compliance" for further information on OPRA.

Through our subsidiary, MDX, we are expanding our market data offerings. MDX is a market data vendor providing information on specialized indexes, time and sales information and specialized reports of historical market data.

Support Services

Trading Permit Holders and affiliates have access via e-mail and telephone to our specialized network administration center, which provides support with respect to general technical, business and administrative questions. Our Trading Operations Help Desk is staffed Monday through Friday from 6:00AM CST to 4:30PM CST. Our Systems Operations support is staffed 24 hours a day, seven days a week.



Regulatory Environment and Compliance

The following discussion cover the more significant areas of regulation of us by the SEC and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission ("CFTC").

Recent Developments

Laws and regulations regarding our business are frequently modified or changed, including in response to adverse financial conditions, new products, competition or at the request of market participants. The following is a summary of recent regulatory developments that may impact our business.

Market Access

On November 3, 2010, the SEC adopted a new rule that would require brokers or dealers with access to trading directly on an exchange or automated trading system ("ATS"), including those providing sponsored or direct market access to customers or other persons, to implement risk management controls and supervisory procedures reasonably designed to manage the financial, regulatory and other risks of this business activity. The new rule encompasses trading in all securities on an exchange or ATS, including equities, options, exchange-traded funds and debt securities. The new rule also applies broadly to all access to trading on an exchange or ATS provided by a broker-dealer, but does not apply to non-broker-dealers, including non-brokers that are subscribers to an ATS. Market participants were required to be in compliance with certain requirements by July 14, 2011 and in full compliance by November 30, 2011.

May 6, 2010-Related Proposals

On May 6, 2010, markets dropped significantly and approximately 30 S&P 500 Index stocks fell at least 10 percent in a five-minute period. In response, on June 10, 2010, the SEC approved rule changes submitted by the national securities exchanges and Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. ("FINRA") under which the exchanges would pause trading in certain individual stocks and overlying options if the price in the stock moved by a specified percentage in a five-minute period. The markets proposed these rules in consultation with FINRA and staff of the SEC to provide for uniform market-wide standards for individual securities in the S&P 500 Index that experience a rapid price movement. The program has since been expanded to also cover all NMS stocks, other than rights and warrants, and overlying options. The pause is intended to give the markets the opportunity to attract new trading interest, establish a reasonable market price and resume trading in a fair and orderly fashion. These rules are in effect on a pilot basis through July 31, 2012. During the pilot period, the SEC staff is studying the impact of the pilot and continuing to evaluate further initiatives to address market structure issues revealed by the events of May 6, 2010, such as a proposed national market system plan submitted by the stock markets and FINRA that would









refine the single stock circuit breakers by incorporating a limit-up/limit-down type mechanism and proposed rule changes submitted by the national securities exchanges and FINRA that would refine the existing market-wide circuit breaker methodology for determining when to halt trading in all securities. We cannot predict what future actions the SEC might take with respect to the unusual market events of May 6 or the impact that any such actions may have on our business.

Agency Rulemaking Areas

In addition to the above identified areas, the SEC has been directed under Dodd-Frank to implement many new rules, both alone and in conjunction with the CFTC.  These areas include portfolio margining and swap clearing and execution.

In 2010, the SEC and CFTC formed a joint Advisory Committee charged with developing recommendations on emerging and ongoing issues relating to both agencies.  The Advisory Committee made certain recommendations in February 2011 relating to the events of May 6, 2010 regarding market structure issues that may have contributed to the volatility, as well as disparate trading conventions and rules across various markets.  Both the SEC and CFTC are considering rules for implementing these recommendations.

Finally, the SEC has proposed rules, including a consolidated audit trail, option fee caps and banning flash orders, that it has not acted upon.  We expect that the SEC will approve rules relating to the consolidated audit trail, but do not know when such rules will be implemented. The exchanges and their participants are likely to incur significant costs related to the implementation of the consolidated audit trail requirements, once formulated.  While we do not expect the SEC to take action with respect to option fee caps or banning flash orders, as these proposals are dated, if one or both of the proposals were adopted, they could cause significant changes to our market that may reduce our revenue per contract or reduce the volume of trading on our exchange.

Compliance

Options Industry-CBOE and C2

Federal securities laws have established a two-tiered system for the regulation of securities markets and market participants. The first tier consists of the SEC, which has primary responsibility for enforcing federal securities laws. The second tier consists of Self-Regulatory Organization ("SROs"), which are non-governmental entities that must register with and are regulated by the SEC. CBOE and C2 are SROs, each registered under Section 6 of the Exchange Act as a "national securities exchange" and are subject to oversight by the SEC. CBSX is a stock trading facility of CBOE.

SROs in the securities industry are an essential component of the regulatory scheme of the Exchange Act for providing fair and orderly markets and protecting investors. To be registered as a national securities exchange, an exchange must successfully undergo a rigorous application and review process with the SEC before beginning operations. Among other things, the SEC must determine that the exchange has the capacity to carry out the purposes of the Exchange Act. An SRO must comply with the Exchange Act and have the ability to enforce compliance by its members and persons associated with its members with the provisions of the Exchange Act, the rules and regulations thereunder and the rules of the exchange.

In general, an SRO is responsible for regulating its members through the adoption and enforcement of rules governing the business conduct of its members. The rules of the exchange must also assure fair representation of its members in the selection of its directors and administration of its affairs and, among other things, provide that one or more directors be representative of issuers or investors and not be associated with a member of the exchange or with a broker or dealer. Additionally, the rules of the exchange must be adequate to ensure fair dealing and to protect investors and may not impose any burden on competition not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Exchange Act.

As registered national securities exchanges, virtually all facets of our CBOE and C2 operations are subject to the SEC's oversight, as prescribed by the Exchange Act. The Exchange Act and the rules thereunder impose on us many regulatory and operational responsibilities, including the day-to-day responsibilities for market and broker-dealer oversight. Furthermore, as SROs, CBOE and C2 are potentially subject to regulatory or legal action by the SEC or other interested parties. The SEC also has broad enforcement powers to censure, fine, issue cease-and-desist orders, prohibit us from engaging in some of our businesses, suspend or revoke our designation as a registered securities exchange or to remove or censure any of our officers or directors who violate applicable laws or regulations.

As part of its regulatory oversight, the SEC conducts periodic reviews and inspections of exchanges, and CBOE and C2 have been subject to such routine reviews and inspections. To the extent such reviews and inspections result in regulatory or other changes, we may be required to modify the manner in which we conduct our business, which may adversely affect our business.

CBOE and C2 are also subject to the record keeping requirements of Section 17 of the Exchange Act, including the requirement pursuant to Section 17(b) of the Exchange Act to make certain records available to the SEC for examination.









Section 19 of the Exchange Act also provides that we must submit to the SEC proposed changes to any of our option exchanges' rules, including revisions of their certificates of incorporation and bylaws. The SEC will typically publish the proposal for public comment, following which the SEC may approve, disapprove or abrogate the proposal, as it deems appropriate. The SEC's action is designed to ensure that the CBOE's and C2's Rules and procedures are consistent with the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations under the Exchange Act.

CBOE Holdings

Futures Industry-CFE

The operations of CFE are subject to regulation by the CFTC under the Commodity Exchange Act. The Commodity Exchange Act generally requires that futures trading in the United States be conducted on a commodity exchange designated as a contract market by the CFTC under the Act. The Commodity Exchange Act and CFTC regulations establish criteria for an exchange to be designated as a contract market on which futures and futures options contracts may be traded. Designation as a contract market for the trading of a specified futures contract is non-exclusive. This means that the CFTC may designate additional exchanges as contract markets for trading the same or similar contracts.

CFE is a designated contract market that is subject to the oversight of the CFTC and to a variety of ongoing regulatory and reporting responsibilities under the Commodity Exchange Act. CFE has surveillance and compliance operations and procedures to monitor and enforce compliance by trading privilege holders with CFE rules.

The National Futures Association ("NFA") is performing most of these functions pursuant to a Regulatory Services Agreement with CFE. CFE retains overall responsibility for the regulation of its marketplace. CFE also remains responsible for bringing disciplinary actions against trading privilege holders, including the ability to issue fines in the case of serious rule violations. In the case of financially distressed Trading Privilege Holders, CFE may take various emergency actions to protect customers, other Trading Privilege Holders and CFE. CFE is also a party to cooperative and regulatory information sharing agreements with other SROs and is a member of the Intermarket Surveillance Group.

Dodd-Frank amended the core principles with which designated contract markets like CFE must comply under the Commodity Exchange Act. The CFTC has proposed a number of new regulations applicable to designated contract markets in order to implement the amended core principles. These proposals include certain ownership and voting restrictions on stockholders like those required by the SEC for securities exchanges, other regulations designed to mitigate potential conflicts of interest and regulations relating to the trading rules that designated contract markets may implement. CFE cannot predict or estimate the full extent to which the proposals may affect CFE or its operations.



Regulatory Responsibilities

Our options exchanges are responsible for taking steps to ensure that their Trading Permit Holders comply with the exchanges' rules and with the applicable rules of the SEC. The main activities that the exchanges engage in to measure compliance with these rules include: (1) the review of surveillance exception reports designed to detect violations of exchange trading rules; (2) the review of surveillance exception reports designed to detect possible manipulation and violations of other SEC rules; (3) the further investigation of matters deemed to be problematic upon review of the exception reports or matters deemed to be problematic as a result of examinations; (4) the investigation of complaints about possible rule violations brought by customers, members or other SROs; and (5) the examination of CBOE and C2 Trading Permit Holders for compliance with rules such as those related to net capital, books and records, market access and other matters related to the Trading Permit Holders' exchange business function. As further described below, each option exchange is also responsible for reviewing its Trading Permit Holders' activities related to the conduct of business directly with public customers, or sales practice. We have









delegated the responsibility to conduct sales practice examinations for options to FINRA, except that we retain responsibility for some of the sales practice examinations of Trading Permit Holders that are not also members of FINRA or another U.S. securities exchange.

Section 17(d) of the Exchange Act and the related Exchange Act rules permit SROs to allocate certain regulatory responsibilities to avoid duplicative oversight and regulation. Under Exchange Act Rule 17d-1, the SEC designates one SRO to be the Designated Examining Authority ("DEA") for each broker-dealer that is a member of more than one SRO. The DEA is responsible for the regulatory oversight of the financial responsibility aspects of that broker-dealer. We are the DEA for many of our members.

Exchange Act Rule 17d-2 permits SROs to enter into agreements, commonly called Rule 17d-2 agreements, which are approved by the SEC and concern the enforcement of rules applicable to all of those SROs and relating to members those SROs have in common. We have entered into Rule 17d-2 agreements under which FINRA is allocated responsibility for enforcing rules related to options sales practices with respect to CBOE and C2 Trading Permit Holders and insider trading rules with respect to CBSX Trading Permit Holders. We have entered into another Rule 17d-2 agreement that allocates responsibility to each SRO for ensuring that their allocated common members complied with rules governing expiring exercise declarations, options position limits and large options position reporting and position adjustments.  Finally, we have entered into a Rule 17d-2 agreement that allocates certain responsibilities under Regulation NMS to a market participant's DEA.

The SEC approved a national market system plan named the Options Regulatory Surveillance Authority Plan ("ORSA Plan") with the purpose of permitting the U.S. securities options exchanges to act jointly in the administration, operation and maintenance of a regulatory system for the surveillance, investigation and detection of the unlawful use of undisclosed, material information in trading in one or more of their markets. Through the sharing of the costs of these regulatory activities and the sharing of the regulatory information generated under the ORSA Plan, the ORSA Plan is intended to enhance the effectiveness and efficiency with which the exchanges regulate their respective markets and the national market system for options and to avoid duplication of certain regulatory efforts. The ORSA Policy Committee delegated the operation of the surveillance and investigative facility contemplated by the ORSA Plan to CBOE. The exchanges have entered into a Regulatory Services Agreement with CBOE, as service provider, pursuant to which CBOE performs certain regulatory and surveillance functions under the ORSA Plan and uses its automated insider trading surveillance system to perform these functions on behalf of the exchanges.

In 2011, CBOE entered into Regulatory Services Agreements with other exchanges under which CBOE has agreed to provide certain regulatory services to the respective exchanges.  CBOE is currently providing these services to one exchange and expects to begin providing services to one or more additional exchanges in 2012.

In order to ensure market integrity, we extensively regulate and monitor our Trading Permit Holders trading activities. Providing effective regulation is important for attracting and retaining the confidence and participation of market-makers, broker-dealers and institutional and retail investors.

We expend considerable time, financial resources and effort to ensure that the exchanges' rules and regulations conform to regulatory "best practices" within the securities exchange industry and within the regulatory regime overseen by the SEC, our primary regulator. In order to support our efforts and those of our market participants to comply with applicable law and our option exchange rules, we have developed our own automated market surveillance systems to monitor market activity on our option exchanges and across U.S. options markets.

As part of the self-regulatory process, disciplinary matters, other than minor matters covered by our Minor Rule Violation Plan, are reviewed by our Business Conduct Committee, which includes both market participants and public representatives. We are also a participant in the Intermarket Surveillance Group ("ISG"). ISG is an information-sharing cooperative governed by a written agreement that provides for a comprehensive surveillance sharing arrangement.  In addition to the agreement for confidential information sharing, the ISG provides a framework for the coordination of regulatory efforts among exchanges trading securities, commodity futures and related products to address potential intermarket manipulations and trading abuses.  There are approximately 52 ISG member organizations worldwide.

We collect certain fees derived from our regulatory function and fines in connection with our disciplinary proceedings.  Under the rules of each of our options exchanges, as required by the SEC, any revenue derived from the regulatory fees and fines cannot be used for non-regulatory purposes.

OPRA Plan, CTA Plan and NASDAQ Unlisted Trading Privileges Plan

CBOE and C2 are member exchanges in OPRA. The OPRA limited liability company agreement, which has been approved by the SEC, provides that any securities exchange approved by the SEC for the trading of securities options may become a member exchange of OPRA. The agreement sets forth a system for reporting options information that is administered









by the member exchanges through OPRA, a limited liability company consisting of representatives of the member exchanges. OPRA is the designated securities information processor for market information that is generated through the trading of exchange-listed securities options in the U.S., and it disseminates certain core trading information, such as last sale reports and quotations. We also participate in the Consolidated Tape Association, or CTA, the Consolidated Quotation Plan, or CQ Plan, and the NASDAQ Unlisted Trading Privileges Plan, which perform analogous services for the U.S. equities markets. NYSE Technologies, formerly the Securities Industry Automation Corporation, acts as the "processor" for OPRA, CTA and the CQ Plan.  NASDAQ acts as the processor for the NASDAQ Unlisted Trading Plan.

Options Intermarket Linkage Plan

Options linkage was designed to facilitate the routing of orders between exchanges in furtherance of a national market system. The principal purposes of linkage is to promote price protection and to assure that brokers may execute investors' orders at the best market price. The options exchanges implemented a new linkage plan on August 31, 2009 to replace the original Linkage Plan. Under the plan, direct exchange-to-exchange access through broker-dealers is used to transmit intermarket sweep orders similar to sweep orders that are available in the stock market under Regulation NMS.

Options Listing Procedures Plan and Symbology Plan

We are a party to the Options Listing Procedures Plan, which sets forth the procedures that the options exchanges must follow to list new options. We are also a party to the National Market System Plan for the selection and reservation of securities symbols.



Intellectual Property

We own or have rights to a number of intellectual property assets, including trademarks, service marks, domain names, trade names, copyrights, trade secrets and patents. While the majority of our intellectual property is protected under U.S. law, we have many intellectual property assets protected by the laws in Europe, Asia and other parts of the world. We license some intellectual property assets to other entities. While we consider our intellectual property to be valued assets, we do not believe that our competitive position is wholly dependent on intellectual property protection. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights, while respecting the legitimate intellectual property rights of others.



Employees

As ofDecember 31, 2011, we employed596individuals. Of these employees,261were involved in systems development or operations,93were involved in direct support of trading operations and82were involved in regulatory activities. The remaining160personnel provide business development, product development, education, financial, legal, planning and research, administrative and managerial support.

We have eight building engineers that are covered by a collective bargaining agreement, which expires on May 31, 2015, with the International Union of Operating Engineers Local 399, AFL-CIO. Management believes that we have strong relationships with our employees and we have never experienced a work stoppage.



Executive Officers of CBOE Holdings

Set forth below is information regarding our executive officers and certain other key employees:

NameAgePositionWilliam J. Brodsky68Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerEdward T. Tilly48President and Chief Operating OfficerAlan J. Dean57Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and TreasurerRichard G. DuFour68Executive Vice President of Corporate Planning and DevelopmentJoanne Moffic-Silver59Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate SecretaryGerald T. O'Connell60Executive Vice President and Chief Information OfficerEdward L. Provost59Executive Vice President and Chief Business Development OfficerDavid S. Reynolds58Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer

William J. Brodsky.Mr. Brodsky is Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. He has served in that capacity since 1997. Prior to joining the Company in 1997, Mr. Brodsky was president and chief executive officer of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange from 1985 to 1997. Mr. Brodsky is a director of Integrys Energy Group, Inc. and its predecessors. He also is the past









chairman of the World Federation of Exchanges and past chairman of the International Options Markets Association. He is a member of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York's International Advisory Committee. Mr. Brodsky also serves on the Kellogg School of Management Advisory Council and as a trustee of Syracuse University. He is chairman of the board of directors of Northwestern Memorial Hospital. Mr. Brodsky holds an A.B. degree and a J.D. degree from Syracuse University and is a member of the bar in Illinois and New York.

Edward T. Tilly.Mr. Tilly is President and Chief Operating Officer. He has served in that capacity since November  2011. He served as Executive Vice Chairman from August 2006 until November 2011. He was a member of CBOE from 1989 until 2006, and served as Member Vice Chairman from 2004 through July 2006. Mr. Tilly is the chairman and a director of CBOE Futures Exchange, serves on the board of directors of the CBOE Stock Exchange and the OCC. He holds a B.A. degree in Economics from Northwestern University.

Alan J. Dean.Mr. Dean is Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer. He has served in that capacity since 1988 and has been employed at the Company in the financial area since 1979. Mr. Dean serves on the board of directors of The Institute for Transfusion Medicine. He is a CPA, and he holds a B.S. degree in Accounting from Western Illinois University and an M.B.A. from Northwestern University's Kellogg Graduate School of Management.

Richard G. DuFour.Mr. DuFour is Executive Vice President of Corporate Planning and Development. He has served in that capacity since 1999 and has been employed at the Company since 1980. He serves on the board of OneChicago and as treasurer of the International Options Markets Association. Mr. DuFour is a director of the Lincoln Park Renewal Corporation and IPXI Holdings, LLC. Mr. DuFour holds a B.B.A. degree from the University of Notre Dame and an M.B.A. from the University of Michigan.

Joanne Moffic-Silver.Ms. Moffic-Silver is Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary. She has served in that capacity since 1997 and has been employed at the Company since 1980. She is currently a member of the board of advisors of Northwestern University School of Law. Ms. Moffic-Silver received her B.A. degree with high honors and was elected a member of Phi Beta Kappa from the University of Wisconsin-Madison. Ms. Moffic-Silver received her J.D. degree with honors from Northwestern University School of Law.

Gerald T. O'Connell.Mr. O'Connell is Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer. He has served in that capacity since 1993 and has been employed at the Company since 1984. Mr. O'Connell serves on the board of directors of the CBOE Stock Exchange. He holds a B.S. degree in Mathematics from Lewis University and a J.D. degree from John Marshall Law School.

Edward L. Provost.Mr. Provost is Executive Vice President and Chief Business Development Officer. He has served as the head of our Business Development Division since 2000 and has been employed at the Company since 1975. Mr. Provost serves as Chairman of the board of directors of the CBOE Stock Exchange. He holds a B.B.A. in Finance from Loyola University of Chicago and an M.B.A. from the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business.

David S. Reynolds.Mr. Reynolds is Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer. He has served in that capacity since May 2009. Prior to that, Mr. Reynolds was with Hudson Highland Group, Inc., where he served in various roles including vice president, controller and chief accounting officer. From February 2005 to February 2007, Mr. Reynolds was vice president, controller and chief accounting officer of Bally Total Fitness Corporation. Prior to that, he spent twenty-two years in various financial roles at Comdisco, Inc., rising to senior vice president and controller. Mr. Reynolds began his career at Ernst & Young. Mr. Reynolds is a certified public accountant and a certified cash manager. He is a graduate of Lehigh University where he obtained an M.B.A. and a B.S. in Finance.



Information Sharing

The Company provides information to the ISG under specific circumstances related to the enforcement of regulations. See "-Regulatory Responsibilities."

In 2005, CBOE entered into a series of Memoranda of Understanding with the three futures exchanges and the two stock exchanges in the Peoples Republic of China. These agreements govern the sharing of information on market and product development and provide for CBOE to potentially work with these exchanges toward the development of new markets for derivative products. Similar agreements have also been entered into with the Korea Exchange, the Taiwan Futures Exchange, the China Financial Futures Exchange and the Thailand Futures Exchange. In April 2010, the China Financial Futures Exchange began trading stock index futures.



Seasonality









In the securities industry, quarterly revenue fluctuations are common and are due primarily to seasonal variations in trading volumes, competition and technological and regulatory changes. Generally, we have historically experienced relatively higher trading volume during the first and second quarters and lower trading volumes in the third and fourth quarters. However, such seasonality may also be impacted by general market conditions or other events that cause market volatility, such as domestic and international uncertainties surrounding certain political events. During 2011,24%of our consolidated revenues were recognized in the first quarter,24%in the second quarter,28%in the third quarter and24%in the fourth quarter.



Available Information

Our website is www.cboe.com. The Company files annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC under the Exchange Act. The Company makes available, free of charge, on its website its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. The Company's reports filed with, or furnished to, the SEC are also available on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov.

In addition, we have posted on our website the charters for our (i) Audit Committee, (ii) Compensation Committee, and (iii) Nominating and Governance Committee, as well as our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and Corporate Governance Guidelines. We will provide a copy of these documents without charge to stockholders upon written request to Investor Relations, Attention Ms. Debbie Koopman, CBOE Holdings Inc., 400 South LaSalle Street, Chicago, Illinois 60605.



