Item 1.Business

Overview

CBOE Holdings, Inc. is the holding company for Chicago Board Options Exchange, Incorporated, CBOE Futures Exchange, LLC, C2 Options Exchange, Incorporated and other subsidiaries.

The primary business of the Company is the operation of markets for the trading of listed, or exchange-traded, derivatives contracts on four broad product categories: 1) options on various market indexes (index options), 2) futures on the VIX Index and other products, 3) options on the stocks of individual corporations (equity options) and 4) options on other exchange-traded products (ETP options), such as exchange-traded funds (ETF options) and exchange-traded notes (ETN options). The Company owns and operates three stand-alone exchanges, but reports the results of its operations in one reporting segment. CBOE is our primary options market and offers trading in listed options through a single system that integrates electronic trading and traditional open outcry trading on our trading floor in Chicago. This integration of electronic trading and traditional open outcry trading into a single exchange is known as our Hybrid trading model. CFE, our all-electronic futures exchange, offers trading of futures on the VIX Index and other products.  C2, launched in October 2010, is our all-electronic exchange that also offers trading for listed options, but with a different market model and fee structure than CBOE. All of our exchanges operate on our proprietary technology platform known as CBOE Command.

Since 1974, the first full year of trading on CBOE, we have grown from 5.6 million contracts on one exchange to1.2 billioncontracts on three exchanges in2013, our most recent fiscal year.

Over the past five years, our overall volume has remained relatively flat, though we have experienced a shift in mix of products traded.  The following chart illustrates annual contract volume across the different categories of products traded at the Company for the periods indicated:

Annual Contract Volume20132012201120102009Equities433,777,204494,289,301516,136,937572,688,137634,710,477Indexes372,647,443304,339,908320,389,993269,989,511222,787,514Exchange-traded products341,023,209311,792,122368,364,057276,362,700277,266,218Total Options Volume1,147,447,8561,110,421,3311,204,890,9871,119,040,3481,134,764,209Futures40,193,44723,892,93112,041,1024,402,3781,155,318Total Contract Volume1,187,641,3031,134,314,2621,216,932,0891,123,442,7261,135,919,527

Our operating revenues are primarily driven by transaction fee revenues, which are generated on the contracts traded on our exchanges.

Our principal executive offices are located at 400 South LaSalle Street, Chicago, Illinois 60605, and our telephone number is (312) 786-5600.

Our web site iswww.cboe.com. Information contained on or linked through our web site is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

History

CBOE was founded in 1973 as a non-stock corporation owned by its Members. CBOE was the first organized marketplace for the trading of standardized, exchange-traded options on equity securities.  In 2004, CFE began operations as a futures exchange. CBOE Holdings was incorporated in the State of Delaware on August 15, 2006. In June 2010, CBOE demutualized (see "Restructuring Transaction") and CBOE, C2 and CFE became wholly-owned subsidiaries of CBOE Holdings.  In October 2010, C2, the Company's all-electronic options exchange, initiated operations.

Restructuring Transaction

On June 18, 2010, CBOE converted from a non-stock corporation owned by its Members into a stock corporation that is a wholly-owned subsidiary of CBOE Holdings. In the restructuring transaction, each CBOE regular membership (an "Exchange Seat") owned by a CBOE Member on June 18, 2010 converted into 80,000 shares of Class A common stock of CBOE Holdings. Seat owners received a total of 74,400,000 shares of Class A common stock of CBOE Holdings in the restructuring









transaction. In addition, certain persons who satisfied the qualification requirements set forth in the Settlement Agreement in the Delaware Action received a total of 16,333,380 shares of Class B common stock of CBOE Holdings on June 18, 2010. Pursuant to the Settlement Agreement, qualifying members of the plaintiff class received a cash payment of $300.0 million.

The initial public offering of 13,455,000 shares of unrestricted common stock, including 2,085,774 shares of unrestricted common stock sold by selling stockholders, for a price of $29.00 per share, was completed on June 18, 2010. Net proceeds to the Company after deducting underwriter's fees and commissions and other related expenses were $301.2 million. Costs directly associated with the Company's initial public offering were recorded as a reduction of the gross proceeds received in arriving at the amount recorded in additional paid-in capital.

Upon consummation of the initial public offering, the shares of Class A and Class B common stock not converted into unrestricted common stock and sold in the initial public offering automatically converted into 44,323,803 shares of Class A-1 common stock and 44,323,803 shares of Class A-2 common stock. The Company conducted tender offers in November 2010 and purchased 12,017,895 shares of Class A-1 and Class A-2 common stock. On December 15, 2010 and June 13, 2011, respectively, each remaining share of Class A-1 and Class A-2 common stock issued and outstanding converted into one share of unrestricted common stock. As a result, as of December 31, 2011, no shares of Class A-1 or Class A-2 common stock were outstanding.

Industry

Our primary business of offering exchange-traded options and futures contracts is part of the large and growing global derivatives industry. Derivatives are financial contracts whose value is derived from an underlying asset or reference value. These underlying assets and reference values include individual stocks, stock indexes, exchange-traded funds, exchange-traded notes, debt instruments, interest rates, currencies, commodities, various benchmarks related to trading and investment strategies, economic indicators and "artificial" assets such as pollution rights. The global derivatives industry includes both exchanges and a large over-the-counter market. The most common types of derivatives are options, futures and swap contracts. These products allow for various types of risk to be isolated and transferred.

Exchange-Traded Options and Futures

Options represent a contract giving the buyer the right, but not the obligation, to buy or sell a specified quantity of an underlying security or index at a specific price for a specific period of time. Options provide investors a means for hedging, speculation and income generation, while at the same time providing leverage with respect to the underlying asset. Most options traded on U.S. securities exchanges and over-the-counter are on individual equities, market indexes and ETPs.

Futures are standardized, transferable, exchange-traded contracts that require delivery of a commodity, bond, currency, stock index or other benchmark interests at a specified price and on a specified future date, which are settled in cash on CFE.  Futures exchanges may also list for trading options on futures.

Trading

In the listed options market, there are currently options contracts covering approximately 4,100 underlying stocks, indexes and ETPs, among other products. The presence of dedicated liquidity providers, including market-makers, is a key feature of the options market. Market-makers collectively provide continuous bids and offers for all listed options series. Over the past decade, trading in the options market has migrated from being primarily conducted face-to-face, or "open outcry," to being primarily electronic.  As a result, many liquidity providers now operate remotely, away from the physical trading floors, and the majority of options trading volume is handled and executed electronically.

Trends

Increased Number of Competitors

Over the past ten years, the number of options exchanges has more than doubled, from five exchanges to twelve. The ability to offer multiple, differentiated market and pricing models, coupled with the relative ease of introducing new exchanges on existing technology, have led to multiple exchange operators, including CBOE, operating more than one exchange.  As the business continues to expand, and offer greater margins than the equity trading business, it is possible that our competitors, or new entrants into the exchange business, could open additional new options exchanges.

Price Competition

As the number of exchange participants expands, exchanges have become much more aggressive at utilizing fees to attract business.  This includes both transaction fees assessed to access liquidity and incentive programs to attract order flow.  Order flow, particularly customer order flow, is the primary driver of options exchange operating results.  In the past several









years, the competition for this business has become increasingly fierce, with both exchanges and market-makers competing to attract this order flow. This is due in part to the concentration of the routing of customer order flow with a limited number of firms, known as consolidators, who make routing decisions based on pricing and the ability to internalize order flow. Some exchanges have structured their options businesses in partnership with established market participants and order flow providers.  Others offer specific payments for order flow, in addition to any economic incentives received from market-makers and other participants.

Technology

Exchanges have invested heavily in developing technology to provide functionality and performance in order to compete in the industry.  Market participants continually demand improved performance and reduced latency.  They expect exchanges to provide them with opportunities for price improvement and additional functionality, including risk mitigation, processing of complex orders and maximum execution quality.

Competitive Strengths

We have established ourselves as a global leader and innovator in the options industry. We believe we are well positioned to further enhance our leadership position through several key competitive strengths:

•Leading Brand, Reputation and Market Position.As the original and largest U.S. options exchange, based on both contract volume and notional value and one of the largest options exchanges in the world, we have a leading brand and reputation.  Our opinions and positions on industry issues are sought worldwide.

•Innovative Products.We work closely and collaboratively with market participants to introduce new products and services to meet the evolving needs of the derivatives industry, including index options, options and futures on the VIX Index and other volatility indexes, Long-Term Equity Anticipation Securities ("LEAPS"), short duration options, including Weeklys, FLEX options and options strategy benchmark indexes.

•Strategic Relationships.As described in more detail below, we have entered into licensing agreements with index providers under which we have rights to create volatility indexes and offer options and futures products on their indexes.  See "Strategic Relationships."

•Proprietary Technology.We own, operate and maintain our core trading and information technology and system, which supports both screen and floor-based trading for multiple trading models, products and matching algorithms.  We also offer our Hybrid trading model on CBOE, which integrates open outcry and electronic trading into a single exchange. This offers our users a diverse pool of liquidity and the ability to execute complex strategies that may not be available on purely screen-based trading systems.

•Experienced Management Team.Our management team has extensive experience in the options industry, with the members of the senior management team having an average of over 25 years of experience in the options industry. In May 2013, William J. Brodsky, our former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, became Executive Chairman, Edward T. Tilly assumed the position of Chief Executive Officer after being President and Chief Operating Officer, and Edward L. Provost assuming the title of President and Chief Operating Officer after serving as our Executive Vice President and Chief Business Development Officer. Our ability to promote from within demonstrates the talent and depth among senior management at our Company.

Growth Strategy

We believe that the derivatives industry, especially the listed options and futures industry, has significant growth potential, including through new participants and products.  We expect to further expand our business and increase our revenues and profitability by pursuing the following growth strategies:

•Develop Innovative Proprietary Products.We intend to use licensed products and proprietary intellectual property to create proprietary products that meet the needs of the derivatives industry, both through strategic relationships and internally developed products.  Specifically, we are working to increase product offerings using the proprietary VIX methodology.  In 2013, we introduced options and futures on the CBOE Russell 2000 Volatility Index, and on February 13, 2014, we introduced futures on the CBOE Short-Term Volatility Index.  We plan to introduce options on the CBOE Short-Term Volatility Index later in 2014 pending regulatory approval.  We anticipate that our new and innovative products will help drive trading volumes by attracting new customers to our exchanges. In addition, we believe our continuing product innovations will generate increased use of our other products, in the same way that volatility products on the S&P 500 and the CBOE S&P 500 BuyWrite Index have generated additional trading activity in SPX options.









Our proprietary products are those in which we have a property right or for which we have an exclusive license. Listed options on equities and ETPs currently may be listed on all options exchanges, while trading in our proprietary products is limited to our exchanges. Thus, our proprietary products are able to support a higher revenue per contract than multiply-listed products.

•Pursue International Opportunities.In 2013, we opened a London hub to provide European firms with a cost-efficient way to send and receive CFE data and execute trades on the exchange.  We also extended the trading hours in VIX futures to allow for a post-settlement trading period (from 3:30-4:15 p.m. CT) and to coincide with European trading hours (2 -7 a.m. CT). The 2-7 am extended trading session is designed to accommodate European firms that want to establish or offset VIX Index futures positions.

We also held our second European Risk Management Conference in 2013, building on the success of both our domestic Risk Management Conference and the first European Risk Management Conference, which we held in 2012. We plan to continue pursuing international opportunities to increase trading in our products, including extending hours for trading in certain of our index options products, further expanding the hours for VIX futures trading and increasing our business development activities in Asia.

•Offer Compelling Economic Market Model.Our fee schedule provides benefits to market participants who concentrate their overall trading activity on CBOE.  We believe that our fee structure encourages market participants to increase their business at CBOE by reducing the per contract fee or increasing per contract incentives based on the attainment of certain monthly volume thresholds.  CBOE has a Volume Incentive Program ("VIP") that provides payments to firms that execute volume in excess of certain volume thresholds. In February 2013, we introduced an innovative pricing model on C2 that bases fees and rebates for equity options on the spread between bids and offers, or market width.  We continue to enhance the offering and educate our customers about its benefits.  We regularly review and update our fee schedule to provide an industry-leading economic offering.

•Continue to Enhance Our Trading Platform.We recognize that the opportunity to participate in the growth of the derivatives market will be driven in great part by the trading functionality and systems capabilities that an exchange offers to market participants. We intend to use our strong in-house development capabilities and continued investment to further harden and augment the functionality and capacity of our trading systems.

•Increase the Number of Users of Our Products.We are committed to increasing the number of users who trade our products.  Specifically, we have targeted new institutional investors, including pensions and endowments, to inform about how to trade our products, especially our proprietary products.  We intend to continue offering education sessions and published materials through the Options Institute.  We also educate potential investors through our domestic and European Risk Management Conferences and through participation in industry events.  We plan to continue these activities and look for other opportunities to grow the user base for our products.

•Attract Over-the-Counter Market Participants.We seek to attract participants from the over-the-counter market, including through our customizable FLEX options products and through offering products similar to those traded over-the-counter.

In addition, through a set of arrangements with S&P, we permit S&P to license the Company's proprietary indexes and index methodologies for certain purposes to securities firms and other exchanges. The Company and S&P have agreed that S&P may license one or more clearing agencies to clear over-the-counter, or OTC, options based on the S&P 500 Index that meet certain criteria, and that S&P will compensate us for any transaction cleared under such a license based on the notional value of the transaction.  The Options Clearing Corporation ("OCC") plans to begin offering clearing services for these products in the second quarter of 2014.

•Pursue Select Strategic Opportunities.We evaluate strategic opportunities that we believe will enhance stockholder value.  We specifically look for strategic opportunities beyond our current businesses that will capitalize on our core competencies and diversify our sources of revenue.

Products

Our exchanges provide a marketplace for the trading of options and futures contracts that meet criteria established in the rules of the respective exchange. The options contracts listed for trading include options on indexes, equities and ETPs. In addition, we provide marketplaces for trading futures contracts through CFE.

•Index Options.We offer trading in options on several different broad-based market indexes, including the VIX Index, a proprietary index that we developed, which has become a widely recognized measure of equity market volatility. The index options we list include some of the most widely recognized measures of the U.S. equities market, such as the S&P 500, the Dow Jones Industrial Average ("DJIA"), the NASDAQ 100 and the Russell 2000.









•Equity Options.We offer trading in options with terms of up to nine months on the stocks of approximately 3,000 corporations. The stocks underlying our individual equity options are listed on equity exchanges.

•Options on ETPs.We offer trading in options on over 500 ETFs and ETNs based on various domestic and foreign market indexes, as well as on volatility, commodities, currencies and fixed income instruments.

•Futures.We provide a marketplace for trading nine futures products through our wholly-owned subsidiary, CFE. To date, CFE has focused on the trading of futures using the CBOE-created VIX methodology, but also provides trading in S&P 500 Variance futures.

Weeklys

Weeklys options are options that provide expiration opportunities every week. Weeklys options can provide opportunities for investors to implement more targeted buying, selling or spreading strategies.  CBOE and C2 offer Weeklys options on a number of products, including SPX.  Since 2010, Weeklys options as a percentage of industry options volume have grown from 2% to 21%.

LEAPS

In addition to the standard term options offered, CBOE and C2 also offer Long-term Equity AnticiPation Securities, or LEAPS, on a number of equities, ETPs and market indexes. LEAPS are long-term options contracts that allow investors to establish positions that can be maintained for a period of up to fifteen years.

Proprietary Products

The Company has developed several of its own proprietary indexes and index methodologies.  These include volatility indexes based on various broad-based market indexes (such as the S&P 500, the DJIA, the NASDAQ 100 and the Russell 2000), volatility indexes based on ETFs and individual stocks, the CBOE S&P 500 Implied Correlation Index and a series of options strategy benchmarks, including BuyWrite, PutWrite and Collar indexes based on the S&P 500 and BuyWrite indexes based on other broad-based market indexes. We have also licensed others to use some of these indexes to create products and have entered into agreements whereby we have granted to others the rights to sub-license some of these indexes. The Company generates revenue from the calculation and dissemination of over thirty real-time index values for third party licensors and from the licensing of our proprietary indexes.

Strategic Relationships

The Company has long-term business relationships with several providers of market indexes. We license their indexes as the basis for indexes, index options and other products. In some instances, these licenses provide us with the exclusive right to list certain products based on these indexes. Of particular note are the following:

•S&P 500 and S&P 100 Indexes.We have the exclusive right to offer options contracts on the S&P 500 Index and the S&P 100 Index as a result of a licensing arrangement with S&P OPCO LLC, which was extended in March 2013. Our license with S&P OPCO LLC is through December 31, 2033, with an exclusive license to trade options on the S&P 500 Index through Decmber 31, 2032.  We are also authorized to use the S&P 500 Index and S&P 100 for the creation of CBOE volatility indexes, such as VIX, and tradable products on those volatility indexes.

•DJIA.We have the exclusive right during standard US trading hours to offer options contracts on the Dow Jones Industrial Average ("DJIA") and certain other Dow Jones indexes through December 31, 2017 as a result of a licensing arrangement with S&P Dow Jones Indices, LLC. We are also authorized to use these indexes to create CBOE volatility indexes and trade options, futures and other products on these indexes.

•Russell Indexes.We are able to offer options contracts on the Russell 2000 and certain other Russell indexes through December 31, 2013 as a result of a licensing arrangement with Frank Russell Co. We are also authorized to create RVX, a volatility index based on the Russell 2000, and offer options, futures and other products for trading on this index.

•NASDAQ 100.We have a non-exclusive right to offer options contracts on the NASDAQ 100 Index through December 2015 as a result of a licensing arrangement with NASDAQ OMX Group, Inc. Under this license, we were authorized to create VXN, a volatility index on the NASDAQ 100, and offer options, futures or other products on this index.









Options Exchanges' Market Participants

As discussed in more detail below, our options exchanges are designed to provide reliable, orderly, liquid and efficient marketplaces for the trading of options by market participants. Our options exchanges operate quote-driven auction markets that involve a number of different market participants.

Trading Permit Holders

Purchasing a monthly Market-Maker Trading Permit (CBOE, C2), Electronic Access Permit (CBOE, C2) or Floor Broker Trading Permit (CBOE) for the respective exchange conveys "Trading Permit Holder" status on that exchange to the permit holder.

A Trading Permit Holder on one of our options exchanges is allowed to enter orders and quotes into the trading system for that exchange. Trading Permit Holder entities can execute trades for their own accounts, for clearing firm accounts, for the accounts of other permit holders or for the accounts of customers.

Applicants for Trading Permit Holder Status

Applicants for Trading Permit Holder status must have adequate financial resources and credit to assume the responsibilities and privileges of Trading Permit Holder status. All Trading Permit Holders must agree to abide by the rules and regulations of the applicable exchange. Additionally, they must comply with the provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") and the rules and regulations issued by the SEC.

Our Regulatory Services Division is the investigative arm of our exchanges with regard to compliance with exchange rules. Trading Permit Holders who are found to have violated a rule can be subject to sanctions such as fines, trading suspensions and/or expulsion from the particular exchange.

Options Trading Permits:

•Market-Maker Trading Permits (CBOE, C2)—As discussed in more detail under "Participant Roles," a Market-Maker Trading Permit entitles the holder to act as a market-maker, DPM, eDPM or LMM on the respective exchange, if applicable on such exchange. This permit provides an appointment credit of 1.0 (which is a measure of how many classes the Trading Permit Holder can quote), a quoting and order entry bandwidth allowance, up to three logins and trading floor access. Quoting in all classes listed on CBOE requires a minimum of thirty-three permits and an additional tier appointment must be obtained in order for a market-maker to act as a market-maker in any of SPX options, VIX options or SPXpm options.



•Electronic Access Permit ("EAP") (CBOE, C2)—The EAP entitles the holder to electronic access to the exchange. The CBOE EAP permit does not provide access to the trading floor.  The EAP provides an order entry bandwidth allowance and up to three logins.

•Floor Broker Trading Permit (CBOE)—The Floor Broker Trading Permit entitles the holder to act as a Floor Broker. This permit provides an order entry bandwidth allowance, up to three logins and trading floor access.

Participant Roles

Direct access to our options marketplaces is granted through trading permits. A trading permit entitles the holder to conduct business on the exchange, including in one of the participant roles described below.

•Market-Maker.A market-maker engages in trading our products either for its own account or for the account of his or her firm, but does not act as an agent representing orders for customers. A market-maker may operate on the trading floor (CBOE only) or remotely and has certain quoting obligations in its appointed product classes. They are granted margin relief to ensure they can conduct business without requiring excessive amounts of capital. Market-makers must have a relationship with a clearing firm that will hold and guarantee their positions. The majority of trading permits in use on CBOE are used for market making.

•Lead Market-Maker, or LMM.An LMM is a market-maker that assumes special obligations with respect to providing electronic and/or open outcry quotes for specific options classes at CBOE. Currently, LMMs are utilized in SPX options and S&P 100 Index options, and as open outcry quote providers in certain classes where an off-floor DPM is providing electronic markets only. Other than in SPX, the LMMs receive participation rights in electronic and/or open outcry trading. Participation rights guarantee LMMs a minimum share of each trade for which they are on the best market. In SPX, LMMs do not receive participation rights, and four LMMs are appointed to quote simultaneously each expiration cycle.









•Floor Broker.An individual who represents orders on the CBOE trading floor as an agent is known as a floor broker. Floor brokers generally do not trade for their own account and do not receive any margin relief. They generate revenue by charging commissions to their customers for their services. A floor broker may represent orders for his firm's proprietary account in accordance with CBOE rules.

•Designated Primary Market-Maker, or DPM.A DPM is a market-maker firm that has been assigned responsibilities in certain options classes at CBOE. DPMs are obligated to provide continuous quotes in their appointed classes but at a higher standard than that of regular market-makers. DPMs are expected to participate in business development efforts to attract business to CBOE for their appointed classes. DPMs also are granted participation rights in their appointed classes.

•Electronic Designated Primary Market-Maker, or eDPM.An eDPM is a market-maker on CBOE that has been assigned responsibilities similar to a DPM but only operates remotely, not on the trading floor. They also are granted participation rights in their appointed classes but at a lower level than that of DPMs, reflecting their slightly lesser obligations. eDPMs serve to supplement the role of the DPM and are also motivated to engage in business development efforts in their appointed classes.  As of February 3, 2014, CBOE no longer offers the eDPM program.

•Electronic Access Permits.Firms that do not have any of the specified roles above have electronic access permits.  These may include clearing TPHs; TPHs approved to transact business with the public; proprietary TPHs; and order service firm.

Several of the functions described above, namely, market-maker, DPM, eDPM and LMM, are often grouped together as "liquidity providers." This name refers to the fact that they all provide liquidity to the options market through their various obligations to provide to the marketplace two-sided quotes at which they are obligated to trade. Any of these liquidity providers may be designated as a preferred market-maker by a member firm routing an order to CBOE. The preferred market-maker is afforded a participation right on specific orders provided that he or she meets certain other requirements with respect to the relevant options class and quoting obligations.

CFE Market Participants

Parties are required to apply and be approved as CFE Trading Privilege Holders and obtain a CFE trading permit in order to have trading privileges on CFE. Trading Privilege Holders on CFE are allowed to enter orders into CFE's trading system and can execute trades for their own accounts or for the accounts of customers.

Under its rules, CFE has the authority to establish market-maker programs and appoint one or more DPMs, LMMs or market-makers.  However, CFE does not have a DPM, LMM or market-maker program in VIX futures.

Market Model

Algorithms

At the core of the market model on all of our exchanges are matching algorithms, which are the means by which trades are executed and allocated to market participants. Our technology and the rules of our exchanges provide for a variety of different algorithms for matching buyers and sellers. Our options trading systems monitor the National Best Bid and Offer ("NBBO"), and orders are not executed at a price inferior to the displayed NBBO, except pursuant to limited exceptions provided in CBOE or C2's rules. We have the ability to apply different matching algorithms to different products in order to meet the needs of particular market segments. The setting of the matching algorithm affects the share of each trade that a market participant receives and is central to the opportunity and profit potential of market-makers and other liquidity providers.

•CBOE utilizes varying matching algorithms across its listed options classes, with different combinations of customer priority, participation rights and pro-rata, modified pro-rata or price-time depending on the product.

•C2's matching algorithm is pro-rata for ETP options classes. For equity options classes, the C2 matching algorithm is a price-time matching algorithm with customer priority and DPM participation rights.

•The matching algorithm for VIX futures on CFE is price-time priority. CFE also offers Trade at Settlement ("TAS") transactions in VIX futures, which are aimed at helping traders even out end-of-day price exposure in VIX futures.

Orders can be routed to other marketplaces via contracted brokers for execution if a better displayed price exists elsewhere.  See "Regulatory Responsibilities - Options Intermarket Linkage Plan." Details on our technological capabilities, as well as key systems offerings available to customers, are described in "Technology."









Pricing

Each of our exchanges establishes a fee schedule that, among other things, sets the transaction fee for buying or selling options or futures contracts on the exchange and access fees for accessing our exchanges. CBOE utilizes a pricing model in which transaction fees are charged to most professionals, including market-makers, but are not charged for most customer orders.  CBOE also has a volume incentive program, or VIP, which pays credits to permit holders for executing certain types and levels of qualifying customer business at the exchange.

C2 uses a maker-taker pricing model for ETP options in which orders that take liquidity from the marketplace are charged a transaction fee and orders that provide liquidity to the marketplace receive a rebate. In February 2013, C2 modified its pricing model for equity options to provide that market-maker, professional, broker-dealer and firm transactions are charged fees based on the width of the market.

CFE utilizes a pricing model in which transaction fees vary depending on the type of market participant on whose behalf a trade is made and on whether the trade is executed through CFE’s trading system, or is a block trade or exchange of contract for a related position transaction. CFE also offers a Day Trade Fee Program that provides rebates on trades that qualify for the program.

Each of the exchanges also currently charges a fee for trading permits that allow access to our exchanges.  Beginning in 2013, CBOE implemented a sliding scale for all Market-Maker Trading Permits held by affiliated Trading Permit Holders and TPH Organizations that are used for appointments in any options classes other than SPX,

Competition

CBOE is the largest options exchange in the U.S. based on both total contract volume and notional value of contracts traded. The market share for all options traded on U.S. exchanges over the past five years for CBOE and C2, combined, has ranged from26.4%to31.4%annually. For2013, our market share was27.9%.

The U.S. options industry is extremely competitive and the competition has intensified. We expect this trend to continue.  We compete with a number of entities on several different fronts, including the cost, quality and speed of our trade execution, the functionality and ease of use of our trading platform, the range of our products and services, our technological innovation and adaption and our reputation. There are ten other U.S. options exchanges that are our primary direct competitors, including ISE, NASDAQ OMX NOM, NASDAQ OMX PHLX, NYSE Amex and NYSE Arca.  We also compete against futures exchanges trading similar products and other financial institutions that write over-the-counter derivatives. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act ("Dodd-Frank") legislation creates a type of marketplace called a Swap Execution Facility ("SEF"). SEFs serve as marketplaces for the matching of swap transactions. We also compete against futures exchanges and SEFs to attract OTC participants.

Most options on equities and ETPs listed and traded on CBOE and C2 are also listed and traded on other U.S. options exchanges. The options exchanges have been introducing new pricing models over the last few years in order to attempt to attract additional trades to their exchanges.  These pricing models include traditional pricing, maker-taker, and ownership benefits.  See "Trends - Price Competition."

Our competitive challenge is to persuade broker-dealers to route options orders to our exchanges rather than to our competitors and to convince liquidity providers to concentrate their market making activity on our exchanges. This is particularly true with respect to options on equities and ETPs. We compete through a variety of methods, including:

•Offering a fee schedule that both attracts order flow and provides incentives to liquidity providers;

•Providing advanced technology that offers broad functionality, low latency, fast execution, ease of use, scalability, reliability and security;

•Offering participants access to a broad array of products and services, including proprietary products;

•Offering market participants an efficient, transparent and liquid marketplace for trading options using traditional open outcry and our electronic platform, CBOE Command;

•Offering customers a deep, liquid market with trading mechanisms to enable potential price improvement;

•Facilitating payment for order flow through the administration of marketing fees;

•Offering market participants potential participation rights for order flow that they direct or cause to be directed to our exchanges; and









•Providing brokers and their customers with a complete source of information on options as well as extensive options education.

Technology

CBOE Command

CBOE Command, our in-house developed technology, supports trading on multiple exchanges: CBOE, C2, CFE, CBSX and OneChicago, LLC.  The technology supports different products, different market models and multiple matching algorithms. As mentioned above, CBOE is a hybrid exchange, while C2, CFE, CBSX and OneChicago are fully electronic. We have licensed our technology for use by CBSX, an all-electronic stock trading facility of CBOE, and OneChicago, an all-electronic exchange for trading single-stock futures.  In the Hybrid format, which is used on CBOE, CBOE Command provides features of screen-based and floor-based trading.

CBOE Command is a Java application with an infrastructure designed for high performance and low latency and is easily scalable for capacity and throughput. Peak message traffic rates are 1.8 million transactions per second. The architecture and implementation of the system allows for flexibility in allocation algorithms, a fully integrated complex order book and several auction mechanisms.

The platform supports a quote-driven options market model where liquidity providers have quoting obligations. Market-makers, DPMs, eDPMs and LMMs typically stream hundreds of millions of quotes into CBOE Command each day. To facilitate liquidity providers, CBOE Command has a number of internal risk controls, including Quote Lock and Quote Risk Monitor.

CBOE Command allows for a quick introduction of different types of derivative and securities products, including options, futures, options on futures and stock products. In addition, our system facilitates different trading models through the use of alternative configurations, allowing us to provide both hybrid and fully electronic market models.  CBOE also offers CFLEX, our hybrid platform for trading FLexible EXchange Options, or FLEX options, built on the CBOE Command platform.

In 2012, CBOE moved its primary data center from the CBOE building in Chicago to a data center location in New Jersey to eliminate distance latency.  The move also introduced enhanced versions of firm interface protocols and a complete operating system upgrade of CBOE Command from Solaris to Redhat Linux.

Hybrid Trading Model

All CBOE products trade with an electronic and open-outcry component where both are integrated to function as a single market.  Our Hybrid trading model is supported by state-of-the-art technology, including the CBOE Command trading platform. For our a.m.-settled SPX options and p.m.-settled SPX Quarterlys, certain of the electronic trading features are differently configured to better suit the needs of customers in those products and resulting in a higher rate of open-outcry trading.

CBOE market-makers stream their own individual quotes, in products other than SPX and SPXQ (where only LMMs stream quotes), into the CBOE trading engine and, if on the floor, engage in open outcry transactions in their trading crowd. Our Hybrid trading model allows CBOE to offer the best of both electronic and open outcry trading models.

Trade Match, Ticker Plant and Market Data

The Trade Match system is built on the same technology as CBOE Command. It matches trades and sends them to OCC, which settles and clears the trades. The Trade Match system provides matched trade information and post-trade allocation functionality to clearing firms and brokers through a web-based interface and an application programming interface, or API.

Both incoming and outgoing market data is vital to the operations of our exchanges and to market participants.  Our ticker plant, XTP, takes in market data feeds from OPRA, CTS/CQS, NASDAQ, CME Group and other sources and disseminates the data internally to other systems on a publish/subscribe basis. XTP's most recent processing peak was 7.5 million messages per second, or MPS, inbound from OPRA, with over 14.6 billion messages per day. XTP and our Index Calculation systems allow CBOE to calculate numerous different types of indexes and add new ones as required.

Market data is sent to OPRA, CTS/CQS, NASDAQ data vendors and to Trading Permit Holders via our APIs, including FIX and CMi, CBOE Financial Network and CBOE Streaming Markets ("CSM"), described below.

Our exchanges generate valuable information regarding the prices of our products and the trading activity in our exchanges. For options, market data relating to price and size of market quotations and the price and size of trades is collected and consolidated by OPRA. OPRA disseminates the information for a fee to vendors who redistribute the data to brokers,









investors and other persons or entities that use our markets or that monitor general economic conditions. After costs are deducted, the fees collected are distributed among OPRA's exchange participants based on their cleared transactions pursuant to the OPRA Plan. As of December2013, our market data was displayed on approximately 149,000 terminals worldwide. See "Regulatory Environment and Compliance" for further information on OPRA.

Our subsidiary, Market Data Express, LLC ("MDX") sells historical options data and real-time data index values. It also provides market data through , a proprietary streaming data feed. In 2014, we plan to enhance CSM's offerings to include market depth.

Disaster Recovery

We operate and maintain geographically diverse disaster recovery facilities that essentially replicate the systems available in our primary data center for CBOE and CFE.  We expect that the disaster recovery facilities can be up and running in a short period and are working with our market participants to ensure that the marketplace can be quickly reopened.  We continue to work to improve both the availability of our systems and our disaster recovery facilities, including through simulation testing.

Clearing System

The OCC acts as the issuer, counterparty and guarantor for all options contracts traded on our options exchanges and other U.S. options exchanges. Upon execution of an options trade, we transmit to the OCC a record of all trading activity for clearing and settlement purposes. The OCC fulfills these same functions for futures products traded on CFE.



Regulatory Environment and Compliance

The following discussion covers the more significant areas of regulation of us by the SEC and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission ("CFTC").

Recent Developments

Laws and regulations regarding our business are frequently modified or changed, including in response to adverse financial conditions, new products, competition or at the request of market participants. The following is a summary of certain recent regulatory developments that may impact our business.

Consolidated Audit Trail ("CAT")

In 2012, the SEC directed the self-regulatory organizations, or SROs, through a new regulation, to submit a plan to create, implement and maintain a consolidated audit trail ("CAT"), which would serve as a comprehensive audit trail of orders that will allow regulators to efficiently and accurately track all activity in Regulation NMS securities in the U.S. market.  The regulation requires, among other things, that, upon implementation of a plan, data be reported to a central repository the following day by each exchange and broker dealer.  We are working with the other SROs to develop the plan to implement a consolidated audit trail, which is required to detail technological and compliance aspects of the plan and the costs to implement the plan, among other details.  The SROs are required to submit the plan by September 30, 2014, with a phased implementation over the three years following the effectiveness of the plan.  The exchanges and their participants are likely to incur significant costs related to the implementation of the consolidated audit trail requirements.

Regulation System Compliance and Integrity ("Reg SCI") and Working Group Initiatives

On March 8, 2013, the SEC proposed a new regulation, Regulation Systems Compliance and Integrity, “Reg SCI” under the Securities Exchange Act.   As proposed, Reg SCI would require “SCI Entities,” which includes self-regulatory organizations like CBOE and C2, to comply with security and capacity requirements with respect to their systems and accompanying compliance procedures.  The proposed regulation would replace and codify the current Automation Review Policy.  Under the proposed Reg SCI, CBOE and C2 would be required to establish written policies and procedures reasonably designed to ensure that their systems have adequate integrity to ensure a resilient market in the event of a disruption.  This includes, for example, each exchange ensuring that it has adequate disaster recovery facilities that are geographically diverse from the exchange’s systems.  It also requires timely and substantial notification to be made to the SEC in the event an exchange experiences any system interruption or interference.  The SEC has also established various working groups of exchanges to focus on improving market resiliency, including regarding regulatory halts, trade nullification and additional market protections.  As proposed, Reg SCI and the other SEC mandated working group initiatives are very complex, and, as such, compliance with the final rules may require significant resources.









CFTC Core Principles

Dodd-Frank amended the core principles with which designated contract markets like CFE must comply under the Commodity Exchange Act.  In 2012, the CFTC adopted a number of new regulations applicable to designated contract markets ("DCMs") in order to implement the amended core principles.  These regulations related to, among other things, compliance with rules, prevention of market disruption, financial integrity of transactions, disciplinary procedures, system safeguards and financial resources.  As a result, CFE implemented a number of new rules, policies and procedures in relation to these new requirements.

One aspect with respect to the amended core principles applicable to DCMs that remains pending relates to amended Core Principle 9.  Core Principle 9 requires each DCM to provide a competitive, open and efficient market and mechanism for executing transactions that protects the price discovery process of trading in the DCM’s centralized market.  CFTC regulations to implement Core Principle 9 remain pending and may address the extent to which a DCM may permit block trades and exchanges of derivatives for related positions in its products to occur through the DCM outside of the DCM’s centralized market.  CFE cannot predict or estimate the extent to which these regulations may affect CFE or its operations.

Risk Controls

In 2013, the CFTC issued a concept release that sought public comment regarding a series of existing and potential pre-trade risk controls; post trade reports and other post-trade measures; system safeguards related to the design, testing, and supervision of automated trading systems; and additional protections designed to promote safe and orderly markets.  The concept release was intended to serve as a platform for cataloguing existing industry practices, determining their efficacy and implementation to date and evaluating the need for additional measures, if any.  The concept release did not include any proposed new regulations but could lead to the proposal by the CFTC of additional regulations in this regard that could impact CFE or its operations.

Agency Rulemaking Areas

In addition to the above identified areas, the SEC has been directed under Dodd-Frank to implement many new rules, both alone and in conjunction with the CFTC.  These areas include portfolio margining and swap clearing and execution.

Thee SEC has proposed rules, including options fee caps and banning flash orders, that it has not acted upon.  While we do not expect the SEC to take action with respect to options fee caps or banning flash orders, as these proposals are dated, if one or both of the proposals were adopted, they could cause significant changes to our market that may reduce our revenue per contract or reduce the volume of trading on our exchanges.

Compliance

Securities Industry-CBOE and C2

Federal securities laws have established a two-tiered system for the regulation of securities exchanges and market participants. The first tier consists of the SEC, which has primary responsibility for enforcing federal securities laws. The second tier consists of self-regulatory organization ("SROs"), which are non-governmental entities that must register with and are regulated by the SEC. CBOE and C2 are SROs, each registered under Section 6 of the Exchange Act as a "national securities exchange" and are subject to oversight by the SEC. CBSX, which is not an SRO, is a stock trading facility of CBOE.  As a facility, CBOE is responsible for the regulation of the CBSX marketplace and the following discussion of CBOE's responsibilities includes the responsibility to provide regulation for CBSX and CBOE's other facilities. In addition, National Stock Exchange, Inc. ("NSX") is a stock exchange that is a self-regulatory organization, wholly owned by CBSX.  CBOE is committed to support NSX in fulfilling its self-regulatory responsibilities.

SROs in the securities industry are an essential component of the regulatory scheme of the Exchange Act for providing fair and orderly markets and protecting investors. To be registered as a national securities exchange, an exchange must successfully undergo an application and review process with the SEC prior to beginning operations. Among other things, the SEC must determine that the SRO has the ability to comply with the Exchange Act and to enforce compliance by its members and persons associated with its members with the provisions of the Exchange Act, the rules and regulations thereunder and the rules of the exchange.

In general, an SRO is responsible for regulating its members, known as TPHs at CBOE and C2, through the adoption and enforcement of rules governing the business conduct of its members. The rules of the exchange must also assure fair representation of its members in the selection of its directors and administration of its affairs and, among other things, provide that one or more directors be representative of issuers or investors and not be associated with a member of the exchange or with a broker or dealer. Additionally, the rules of the exchange must be adequate to ensure fair dealing and to protect investors and









may not impose any burden on competition not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Securities Exchange Act.

As registered national securities exchanges, virtually all facets of our CBOE and C2 operations are subject to the SEC's oversight, as prescribed by the Exchange Act. The Exchange Act and the rules thereunder impose on us many regulatory and operational responsibilities, including the day-to-day responsibilities for market and broker-dealer oversight. Furthermore, as SROs, CBOE and C2 are potentially subject to regulatory or legal action by the SEC or other interested parties. The SEC also has broad enforcement powers to censure, fine, issue cease-and-desist orders, prohibit us from engaging in some of our businesses, suspend or revoke our designation as a registered securities exchange or to remove or censure any of our officers or directors who violate applicable laws or regulations.

As part of its regulatory oversight, the SEC conducts periodic reviews and inspections of exchanges, and CBOE and C2 have been subject to such routine reviews and inspections. To the extent such reviews and inspections result in regulatory or other changes, we may be required to modify the manner in which we conduct our business, which may adversely affect our business. We collect certain fees derived from our regulatory function and fines in connection with our disciplinary proceedings.  Under the rules of each of our options exchanges, as required by the SEC, any revenue derived from the regulatory fees and fines cannot be used for non-regulatory purposes.

CBOE and C2 are also subject to the record keeping requirements of Section 17 of the Exchange Act, including the requirement pursuant to Section 17(b) of the Exchange Act to make certain records available to the SEC for examination.

Section 19 of the Exchange Act also provides that we must submit to the SEC proposed changes to any of CBOE's or C2's rules, including revisions of their certificates of incorporation and bylaws. The SEC will typically publish the proposal for public comment, following which the SEC may approve or disapprove the proposal, as it deems appropriate. The SEC's action is designed to ensure that the CBOE's and C2's Rules and procedures are consistent with the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations under the Exchange Act.  Certain categories of rule changes, like fee changes, can be effective on filing, but the SEC retains the ability to suspend or reject such filings within a prescribed period of time.

Consent Order

On June 11, 2013, CBOE and C2 entered into a Consent Order with the SEC (the "Consent Order"), under which CBOE and C2 were censured, ordered to cease and desist from violating certain sections of the Securities Exchange Act, paid a fine of $6 million and agreed to complete certain undertakings. These undertakings include conducting a review of our regulatory programs, enterprise risk management and business influences on regulation, reviewing business practices to ensure compliance with the rules of the exchanges and implementing training programs for employees. The Consent Order also requires on-going certifications by the Company's Chief Executive Officer and Chief Regulatory Officer for five years following the completion of certain of the undertakings.  As of the date of this filing, CBOE and C2 have certified to their compliance with each of the undertakings that were required to be certified to within the time frames indicated in the Consent Order.

CBOE Holdings

Futures Industry-CFE

The operations of CFE are subject to regulation by the CFTC under the Commodity Exchange Act. The Commodity Exchange Act generally requires that futures trading in the United States be conducted on a commodity exchange designated as a contract market by the CFTC under the Act. The Commodity Exchange Act and CFTC regulations establish criteria for an exchange to be designated as a contract market on which futures and futures options contracts may be traded. Designation as a









contract market for the trading of a specified futures contract is non-exclusive. This means that the CFTC may designate additional exchanges as contract markets for trading the same or similar contracts.

CFE is a designated contract market that is subject to the oversight of the CFTC and to a variety of ongoing regulatory and reporting responsibilities under the Commodity Exchange Act. As a designated contract market, CFE is required to comply with the core principles under the Commodity Exchange Act that are applicable to designated contract markets and with related CFTC regulations. CFE has surveillance and compliance operations and procedures to monitor and enforce compliance by Trading Privilege Holders with CFE rules. If CFE fails to comply with applicable laws, rules or regulations, CFE may be subject to censure, fines, cease-and-desist orders, suspension of its business, removal of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of CFE’s designation as a contract market.

The National Futures Association ("NFA") performs many regulatory functions for CFE pursuant to a Regulatory Services Agreement with CFE. CFE retains overall responsibility for the regulation of its marketplace. CFE also remains responsible for bringing disciplinary actions against Trading Privilege Holders, including the ability to issue fines in the case of serious rule violations. In the case of financially distressed Trading Privilege Holders, CFE may take various emergency actions to protect customers, other Trading Privilege Holders and CFE. CFE is also a party to cooperative and regulatory information sharing agreements with other SROs and is a member of the Intermarket Surveillance Group, described below.



Regulatory Responsibilities

Our options exchanges are responsible for assessing the compliance of their Trading Permit Holders with the respective exchange's rules and the applicable rules of the SEC. The main activities that the exchanges engage in to measure compliance with these rules include:

•surveillance designed to detect violations of exchange trading rules;

•surveillance designed to detect possible manipulation and violations of other SEC rules;

•the further investigation of matters deemed to be problematic;

•the investigation of complaints about possible rule violations brought by customers, members or other SROs; and

•the examination of CBOE and C2 Trading Permit Holders for compliance with rules such as those related to net capital, books and records, market access and other matters related to the Trading Permit Holders' exchange business function.

As further described below, each options exchange is also responsible for reviewing its Trading Permit Holders' activities related to the conduct of business directly with public customers, or sales practice.

In order to ensure market integrity, we regulate and monitor our Trading Permit Holders' trading activities. Providing effective regulation is important for attracting and retaining the confidence and participation of market-makers, broker-dealers and institutional and retail investors.

We expend considerable time, financial resources and effort to ensure that the exchanges' rules and regulations conform to regulatory best practices within the securities exchange industry and within the regulatory regime overseen by the SEC, our primary regulator. In order to support our efforts and those of our market participants to comply with applicable law and our options exchange rules, we have developed our own automated market surveillance systems to monitor market activity on our options exchanges and across U.S. options market.

As part of the self-regulatory process, disciplinary matters, other than minor matters covered by our Minor Rule Violation Plan, are reviewed by our Business Conduct Committee, which includes both market participants and public representatives. CBOE, C2 and CFE are participants in the Intermarket Surveillance Group ("ISG"). ISG is an international information-sharing cooperative governed by a written agreement that provides for a comprehensive surveillance sharing arrangement.  In addition to the agreement for confidential information sharing, the ISG provides a framework for the coordination of regulatory efforts among exchanges trading securities, commodity futures and related products to address potential intermarket manipulations and trading abuses.

We collect certain fees derived from our regulatory function and fines in connection with our disciplinary proceedings.  Under the rules of each of our options exchanges, as required by the SEC, any revenue derived from the regulatory fees and fines cannot be used for non-regulatory purposes.









Besides the provision of insider trading regulatory services by CBOE to the other U.S. options exchanges under the Options Regulatory Surveillance Authority Plan (see below), CBOE currently provides significant regulatory services under two Regulatory Service Agreements to three exchanges.

Rule 17d-2 Agreements

Section 17(d) of the Exchange Act and the related Exchange Act rules permit SROs to allocate certain regulatory responsibilities to avoid duplicative oversight and regulation. Under Exchange Act Rule 17d-1, the SEC designates one SRO to be the Designated Examining Authority ("DEA") for each broker-dealer that is a member of more than one SRO. The DEA is responsible for the regulatory oversight of the financial responsibility aspects of that broker-dealer. We are the DEA for many of our members.

Exchange Act Rule 17d-2 permits SROs to enter into agreements, commonly called Rule 17d-2 agreements, which are approved by the SEC and concern the enforcement of rules applicable to all of those SROs and relating to members those SROs have in common. We have entered into Rule 17d-2 agreements under which the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority ("FINRA") is allocated responsibility for enforcing rules related to options sales practices with respect to CBOE and C2 Trading Permit Holders and insider trading rules and certain other rules with respect to CBSX Trading Permit Holders. We have entered into other Rule 17d-2 agreements that allocate responsibility to each SRO for ensuring that their allocated common members comply with rules governing expiring exercise declarations, options position limits and large options position reporting and position adjustments.  Finally, we have entered into a Rule 17d-2 agreement that allocates certain responsibilities under Regulation NMS to a market participant's DEA.

ORSA Plan

The SEC approved a national market system plan named the Options Regulatory Surveillance Authority Plan ("ORSA Plan") with the purpose of permitting the U.S. securities options exchanges to act jointly in the administration, operation and maintenance of a regulatory system for the surveillance, investigation and detection of the unlawful use of undisclosed, material information in trading in one or more of their markets. Through the sharing of the costs of these regulatory activities and the sharing of the regulatory information generated under the ORSA Plan, the ORSA Plan is intended to enhance the effectiveness and efficiency with which the exchanges regulate their respective markets and the national market system for options and to avoid duplication of certain regulatory efforts. The ORSA Policy Committee delegated the operation of the surveillance and investigative facility contemplated by the ORSA Plan to CBOE. The exchanges have entered into a Regulatory Services Agreement with CBOE, as service provider, pursuant to which CBOE performs certain regulatory and surveillance functions under the ORSA Plan and uses its automated insider trading surveillance system to perform these functions on behalf of the exchanges.

OPRA Plan, CTA Plan and NASDAQ Unlisted Trading Privileges Plan

Like all U.S. options exchanges, CBOE and C2 are member exchanges in OPRA, a limited liability company. The OPRA limited liability company agreement sets forth a system for reporting options information that is administered by the member exchanges through OPRA, consisting of representatives of the member exchanges. OPRA is the designated securities information processor for market information that is generated through the trading of exchange-listed securities options in the U.S., and it disseminates certain core trading information, such as last sale reports and quotations. We also participate in the Consolidated Tape Association, or CTA, the Consolidated Quotation Plan, or CQ Plan, and the NASDAQ Unlisted Trading Privileges Plan, which perform analogous services for the U.S. equities market. NYSE Technologies, formerly the Securities Industry Automation Corporation, acts as the "processor" for OPRA, CTA and the CQ Plan.  NASDAQ acts as the processor for the NASDAQ Unlisted Trading Plan.

Options Intermarket Linkage Plan

We are a party to the Options Order Protection and Locked/Crossed Market Plan, known as the Options Intermarket Linkage Plan, which is designed to facilitate the routing of orders between exchanges in furtherance of a national market system. The principal purposes of the plan are to promote price protection and to assure that brokers may execute investors' orders at the best market price, the "National Best Bid and Offer" ("NBBO"). The plan requires price protection of an exchange's best displayed bid or offer when the bid or offer is at the NBBO.  Under the plan, direct exchange-to-exchange access through broker-dealers is used to transmit intermarket sweep orders similar to sweep orders that are available in the stock market under Regulation NMS.  Undisplayed bids and offers and bids and offers at prices that are inferior to an exchange's best bid or offer do not receive protection under this plan.









Options Listing Procedures Plan and Symbology Plan

We are a party to the Options Listing Procedures Plan, which sets forth the procedures that the options exchanges must follow to list new options. We are also a party to the National Market System Plan for the selection and reservation of securities symbols.



Intellectual Property

We own or have rights to a number of intellectual property assets, including trademarks, service marks, domain names, trade names, copyrights, trade secrets and patents. While the majority of our intellectual property is protected under U.S. law, we have many intellectual property assets protected by laws in Europe, Asia and other parts of the world. We license some intellectual property assets to other entities. While we consider our intellectual property to be valued assets, we do not believe that our competitive position is wholly dependent on intellectual property. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights, while respecting the legitimate intellectual property rights of others.



Employees

As ofDecember 31, 2013, we employed650individuals. Of these employees,259were involved in systems development or operations,121were involved in direct support of trading operations and148were involved in regulatory activities. The remaining122employees provide business development, product development, education, financial, human resources, legal, planning and research, administrative and managerial support.

We have eight building engineers that are covered by a collective bargaining agreement, which expires on May 31, 2015, with the International Union of Operating Engineers Local 399, AFL-CIO. Management believes that we have strong relationships with our employees and we have never experienced a work stoppage.



Executive Officers of CBOE Holdings

Set forth below is information regarding our executive officers and certain other key employees:

NameAgePositionEdward T. Tilly50Chief Executive OfficerEdward L. Provost61President and Chief Operating OfficerAlan J. Dean59Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and TreasurerJoanne Moffic-Silver61Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate SecretaryGerald T. O'Connell62Executive Vice President and Chief Information OfficerDavid S. Reynolds60Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer

Edward T. Tilly.Mr. Tilly is our Chief Executive Officer. He has served in that capacity since May 2013.  Prior to becoming CEO, Mr. Tilly served as President and Chief Operating Officer from November 2011, and Executive Vice Chairman from August 2006 until November 2011. He was a member of CBOE from 1989 until 2006, and served as Member Vice Chairman from 2004 through July 2006. Mr. Tilly serves on the board of directors of the OCC. He holds a B.A. degree in Economics from Northwestern University.

Edward L. Provost.Mr. Provost became our President and Chief Operating Officer in May 2013.  Prior to that, Mr. Provost served as Executive Vice President and Chief Business Development Officer.  He served as the head of our Business Development Division since 2000 and has been employed at the Company since 1975.  He holds a B.B.A. in Finance from Loyola University of Chicago and an M.B.A. from the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business.

Alan J. Dean.Mr. Dean is our Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer. He has served in that capacity since 1988 and has been employed at the Company in the financial area since 1979. Mr. Dean serves on the board of directors of The Institute for Transfusion Medicine. He is a CPA, and he holds a B.S. degree in Accounting from Western Illinois University and an M.B.A. from Northwestern University's Kellogg Graduate School of Management.

Joanne Moffic-Silver.Ms. Moffic-Silver is our Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary. She has served in that capacity since 1997 and has been employed as an attorney at the Company since 1980. She is currently a member of the executive committee of the board of advisors of Northwestern University School of Law and a member of the Chicago Network. Ms. Moffic-Silver received her B.A. degree from the University of Wisconsin-Madison (Phi Beta Kappa). Ms. Moffic-Silver received her J.D. degree with honors from Northwestern University School of Law.









Gerald T. O'Connell.Mr. O'Connell is our Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer. He has served in that capacity since 1993 and has been employed at the Company since 1984. He holds a B.S. degree in Mathematics from Lewis University and a J.D. degree from John Marshall Law School.

David S. Reynolds.Mr. Reynolds is our Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer. He has served in that capacity since May 2009. Prior to that, Mr. Reynolds was with Hudson Highland Group, Inc., where he served in various roles including vice president, controller and chief accounting officer. From February 2005 to February 2007, Mr. Reynolds was vice president, controller and chief accounting officer of Bally Total Fitness Corporation. Prior to that, he spent twenty-two years in various financial roles at Comdisco, Inc., rising to senior vice president and controller.  Mr. Reynolds began his career at Ernst & Young. Mr. Reynolds is a certified public accountant and a certified cash manager. He is a graduate of Lehigh University where he obtained an M.B.A. and a B.S. in Finance.



Available Information

Our website is www.cboe.com. The Company files annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC under the Exchange Act. The Company makes available, free of charge, on its website its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. The Company's reports filed with, or furnished to, the SEC are also available on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov.

In addition, we have posted on our website the charters for our (i) Audit Committee, (ii) Compensation Committee, and (iii) Nominating and Governance Committee, as well as our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and Corporate Governance Guidelines. We will provide a copy of these documents without charge to stockholders upon written request to Investor Relations, CBOE Holdings Inc., 400 South LaSalle Street, Chicago, Illinois 60605.



