ITEM
    1.BUSINESS



Company
    Overview



We are the world’s largest semiconductor chip maker, based
    on revenue. We develop advanced integrated digital technology,
    primarily integrated circuits, for industries such as computing
    and communications. Integrated circuits are semiconductor chips
    etched with interconnected electronic switches. We also develop
    computing platforms, which we define as integrated hardware and
    software computing technologies that are designed to provide an
    optimized solution. Our goal is to be the preeminent computing
    solutions company that powers the worldwide digital economy. We
    are transforming from a company with a primary focus on the
    design and manufacture of semiconductor chips for PCs and
    servers to a computing company that delivers complete solutions
    in the form of hardware and software platforms and supporting
    services.



We were incorporated in California in 1968 and reincorporated in
    Delaware in 1989.



In the first quarter of 2011, we completed the acquisition of
    the Wireless Solutions (WLS) business of Infineon Technologies
    AG. See “Acquisitions and Strategic Investments” later
    in this section for a description of that business.



Distribution
    of Company Information



Our Internet address iswww.intel.com. We publish
    voluntary reports on our web site that outline our performance
    with respect to corporate responsibility, including
    environmental, health, and safety (EHS) compliance.



We use our Investor Relations web site,www.intc.com,as
    a routine channel for distribution of important information,
    including news releases, analyst presentations, and financial
    information. We post filings as soon as reasonably practicable
    after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the
    U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including our
    annual and quarterly reports on Forms10-Kand10-Q(including related filings in XBRL format) and current reports
    on Form8-K;our proxy statements; and any amendments to those reports or
    statements. All such postings and filings are available on our
    Investor Relations web site free of charge. In addition, our web
    site allows interested persons to sign up to automatically
    receivee-mailalerts when we post news releases and financial information. The
    SEC’s web site,www.sec.gov,contains reports, proxy
    and information statements, and other information regarding
    issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The content on
    any web site referred to in this Form10-Kis not
    incorporated by reference in this Form10-Kunless
    expressly noted.



Products



We design and manufacture computing and communications
    components, such as microprocessors, chipsets, motherboards, and
    wireless and wired connectivity products. Our platforms
    incorporate software to enable and advance these components. We
    strive to optimize the overall performance of our products by
    improving energy efficiency, seamless connectivity to the
    Internet, and security features. Improved energy efficiency is
    achieved by lowering power consumption in relation to
    performance capabilities, and may result in longer battery life,
    reduced system heat output, power savings, and lower total cost
    of ownership. Increased performance can include faster
    processing performance and other improved capabilities, such as
    multithreading, multitasking, and processor graphics.
    Performance can also be improved by enhancing interoperability
    among devices, storage, manageability, utilization, reliability,
    and ease of use.



Our vision is to create a continuum of personal computing
    experiences based on
    Intel®architecture. This continuum would give consumers a set of
    secure, consistent, and personalized computing experiences with
    a variety of devices that connect to the Internet and each
    other. Our goal is to provide consistency and interoperability
    between devices that are connected seamlessly and require
    computing capability both locally and in cloud computing. Cloud
    computing is a group of linked servers that provides a variety
    of applications and data to users over the Internet.



Components



Microprocessors



A microprocessor—the central processing unit (CPU) of a
    computer system—processes system data and controls other
    devices in the system. We offer microprocessors with one or
    multiple processor cores designed for notebooks, netbooks,
    desktops, servers, workstations, storage products, embedded
    applications, communications products, consumer electronics
    devices, and handheld devices. Multi-core microprocessors can
    enable improved multitasking and energy-efficient performance by
    distributing computing tasks across two or more cores.





The majority of our microprocessors are manufactured using our
    32-nanometer (nm) second-generation Hi-k metal gate silicon
    process technology (32nm process technology). The use of Hi-k
    metal gate transistors increases performance while
    simultaneously reducing the leakage of electrical current. In
    December 2010, we introduced the 2nd generation
    Intel®Coretmprocessor family (formerly code-named Sandy Bridge), a new
    microarchitecture based on our 32nm process technology.
    Microarchitecture refers to the layout, density, and logical
    design of a microprocessor. Our 2nd generation Intel Core
    processor family incorporates features designed to increase
    performance and energy efficiency, such as:

•Integrated processor graphics,which allow for shared
    resources across processing cores and graphics architectures to
    enable optimal performance while saving power;•Intel®Advanced Vector Extensions, which allow for faster and
    simpler performance of computationally intensive tasks, such as
    digital photo editing, creation of music, and other content
    creation;•Intel®Turbo Boost Technology 2.0, which automatically
    increases processor frequency when applications demand higher
    performance; and•Intel®Quick Sync Video,which accelerates encoding,
    decoding, and transcoding features, such as conversion of media
    for portable players and online video-sharing services.



Our 2nd generation Intel Core processor family integrates
    graphics functionality onto the processor die. In contrast, some
    of our previous-generation 32nm processors have incorporated a
    separate 45nm graphics chip inside the processor package. We
    also offer graphics functionality as part of a separate chipset
    outside the processor package. Processor packages may also
    integrate the memory controller.



In addition, we offer and are continuing to develop System on
    Chip (SoC) products that integrate our core processing
    functionalities with other system components, such as graphics,
    audio, and video, onto a single chip to form a purpose-built
    solution. SoC products are designed to reduce total cost of
    ownership, and provide improved performance due to higher
    integration, lower power consumption, and smaller form factors.



Chipsets



A chipset sends data between the microprocessor and input,
    display, and storage devices, such as the keyboard, mouse,
    monitor, hard drive or solid-state drive, and CD, DVD, or
    Blu-ray* drive. We offer chipsets designed for notebooks,
    netbooks, desktops, servers, workstations, storage products,
    embedded applications, communications products, consumer
    electronics devices, and handheld devices. Chipsets extend the
    audio, video, and other capabilities of many systems and perform
    essential logic functions, such as balancing the performance of
    the system and removing bottlenecks. Some chipsets may also
    include graphics functionality or both graphics functionality
    and a memory controller, for use with our microprocessors that
    do not integrate those system components.



Motherboards



We offer motherboard products designed for our desktop, server,
    and workstation platforms. A motherboard is the principal board
    within a system, and typically contains the microprocessor,
    chipset, memory, and other components. The motherboard also has
    connectors for attaching devices to the bus, which is the
    subsystem that transfers data among various components of a
    computer.



Wireless
    and Wired Connectivity



We offer wireless and wired connectivity products, including
    network adapters and embedded wireless cards, based on
    industry-standard protocols used to translate and transmit data
    across networks. Wireless connectivity products based on WiFi
    technology allow users to wirelessly connect to high-speed local
    area networks, typically within a close range. We have also
    developed wireless connectivity products for both mobile and
    fixed networks based on WiMAX, a standards-based wireless
    technology providing high-speed broadband connectivity that can
    link users and networks up to several miles apart.



Microprocessor
    and Platform Technologies



We offer features to improve microprocessor and platform
    capabilities that can enhance system performance and the user
    experience. For example, we offer technologies that can help
    information technology managers maintain, manage, and protect
    enabled systems that are plugged into a power source and
    connected to a network, even if a computer is turned off or has
    a failed hard drive or operating system. We also offer
    technologies that can enable virtualization, in which a single
    computer system can function as multiple virtual systems by
    running multiple operating systems and applications.
    Virtualization can consolidate workloads and provide increased
    security and management capabilities. To take advantage of these
    and other features that we offer, a computer system must have a
    microprocessor that supports a chipset, BIOS (basic input/output
    system) that uses the technology, and software that is optimized
    for the technology. Performance will vary depending on the
    system hardware and software used. We also offer technology that
    enables each processor core to process two software tasks or
    threads simultaneously.





Additional
    Product Offerings



We offerNAND flash memory,which is a specialized type
    of memory component primarily used in portable memory storage
    devices, digital camera memory cards, solid-state drives, and
    other devices. NAND flash memory retains information even when
    the power is off, and provides faster access to data than
    traditional hard drives. Because flash memory does not have any
    moving parts, it tolerates bumps and shocks better than devices
    such as rapidly spinning disk drives.



We offer certainsoftware products,including operating
    systems, middleware, and tools used to develop, run, and manage
    a wide variety of enterprise, consumer, embedded, and handheld
    devices. In addition, we offer software development tools,
    designed to complement our latest hardware technologies, that
    help enable the creation of applications.



Revenue
    by Major Operating Segment



Net revenue for the PC Client Group (PCCG) operating segment,
    the Data Center Group (DCG) operating segment, and the other
    Intel architecture (Other IA) operating segments is presented as
    a percentage of our consolidated net revenue. Other IA includes
    the Embedded and Communications Group, the Digital Home Group,
    and the Ultra-Mobility Group operating segments. All other
    includes the NAND Solutions Group, the Wind River Software
    Group, the Software and Services Group, and the Digital Health
    Group.



Percentage
    of Revenue by Major Operating Segment(Dollars
    in Millions)







Revenue from sales of microprocessors and revenue from sales of
    chipsets, motherboards, and other, presented as a percentage of
    our consolidated net revenue, were as follows:



Percentage
    of Revenue from Microprocessor Sales(Dollars
    in Millions)







For the PCCG and the DCG operating segments, the majority of
    revenue from sales of chipsets, motherboards, and other was from
    the sale of chipsets in all periods presented above.





For a description of all of our operating segments, see
    “Note 30: Operating Segment and Geographic
    Information” in Part II, Item 8 of this Form10-K.Below,
    we discuss the key products and processor technologies,
    including some key introductions, of our operating segments. For
    a discussion of our strategy, see “Strategy” in Part
    II, Item 7 of this Form10-K.



PC
    Client Group



The PC Client Group (PCCG) offers microprocessors and related
    chipsets designed for the notebook, netbook, and desktop market
    segments. In addition, PCCG offers motherboards designed for the
    desktop market segment and wireless connectivity products based
    on WiFi and WiMAX technologies.



We currently offer a range of microprocessors designed for the
    notebook, netbook, and desktop market segments that includes the:

•Intel®Coretmi3 processor, designed to deliver the performance needed for
    multitasking;•Intel®Coretmi5 processor, designed to deliver performance for everyday
    applications, with the ability to boost the speed of PCs as
    needed for demanding tasks, such as playing games and photo
    editing;•Intel®Coretmi7 processor, designed to deliver performance for demanding
    tasks such as multimedia creation and editing, and intense
    gaming;•Intel®Coretmi7 processor Extreme Edition, designed to deliver performance
    for the most demanding applications such as high-performance
    gaming, high-definition content creation, and video encoding and
    editing;•Intel®Atomtmprocessor, designed for low-power, affordable Internet-focused
    devices; and•Previous-generation
    Intel®processors that are designed to deliver performance,
    reliability, and energy efficiency.



The various microprocessor packaging options and processor
    technologies that we offer provide our customers with the
    flexibility to develop a wide range of system designs and form
    factors. In the notebook market segment, we offer
    ultra-low-voltage processors designed for ultra-thin laptop
    computers. For the notebook and netbook market segments, we
    offer processor technologies designed to provide high
    performance with improved multitasking, offer power-saving
    features to improve battery life, enable smaller form factors,
    allow for wireless network connectivity, and improve boot times.
    For the notebook and desktop market segments, we offer
    Intel®vProtmtechnology, which is designed to provide businesses with
    increased manageability, upgradeability, energy-efficient
    performance, and security while lowering the total cost of
    ownership.



With our microprocessors, we also offer related chipsets
    designed for the:

•Notebook and netbook market segments, including Mobile
    Intel®6 Series Express Chipsets, Mobile
    Intel®5 Series Express Chipsets, Mobile
    Intel®4 Series Express Chipsets, Mobile
    Intel®900 Series Express Chipsets, and the
    Intel®NM10 Express Chipset; and•Desktop market segment, including
    Intel®6 Series Express Chipsets,
    Intel®5 Series Express Chipsets,
    Intel®4 Series Express Chipsets,
    Intel®3 Series Express Chipsets, and the
    Intel®NM10 Express Chipset.



Our new product offerings in 2010 and early 2011 include:

•2nd generation
    Intel®Coretmprocessor family, including Intel Core i7 processors, Intel Core
    i5 processors, and Intel Core i3 processors, which incorporate
    features designed to increase performance and energy efficiency.
    These processors are supported by the new Intel 6 Series Express
    Chipset family.•Intel Core i7 processors, Intel Core i5 processors, and Intel
    Core i3 processors, manufactured using our 32nm process
    technology and including integrated high-definition graphics
    functionality. These processors are supported by the Intel 5
    Series Express Chipset family.•Six-core Intel Core i7 processor Extreme Edition featuring 12
    computing threads, designed for digital content creation,3-Drendering, and high-performance gaming.•Intel Atom processors with integrated graphics functionality,
    designed to enable improved performance and smaller, more
    energy-efficient form factors.•Ultra-low-voltage processors manufactured using our 32nm process
    technology, and chipsets designed for ultra-thin laptop
    computers.•Intel®Centrino®wireless adapters, designed to offer high-speed and reliable
    connectivity, and consistent coverage, while consuming minimal
    power.





Data
    Center Group



The Data Center Group (DCG) offers products that are
    incorporated into servers, storage, workstations, and other
    products that help make up the infrastructure for data center
    and cloud computing environments. DCG’s products include
    microprocessors and related chipsets, and motherboards and wired
    connectivity devices.



Our current server, workstation, and storage microprocessor
    offerings include the
    Intel®Xeon®processor and the
    Intel®Itanium®processor. Our Intel Xeon processor family of products supports
    a range of entry-level to high-end technical and commercial
    computing applications such as Internet Protocol data centers.
    Our Intel Itanium processor family generally supports an even
    higher level of reliability and computing performance for data
    processing, and handling high transaction volumes and other
    compute-intensive applications for enterprise-class servers, as
    well as supercomputing solutions. Servers usually have multiple
    microprocessors or cores working together, manage large amounts
    of data, direct data traffic, perform complex transactions, and
    control central functions in local and wide area networks and on
    the Internet. Workstations typically offer higher performance
    than standard desktop PCs and are used for applications such as
    engineering design, digital content creation, and
    high-performance computing. Storage processors range from SoCs
    for low-cost storage systems to high-performance multi-core
    processors in mid- to high-end storage systems such as storage
    area networks.



Our new product offerings in 2010 and early 2011 include:

•Quad-core Intel Itanium processors with enhanced scalability and
    reliability features, designed for mission-critical computing.•Dual-core and quad-core Intel Xeon processors designed for
    entry-level servers for small businesses and educational
    settings; six-core Intel Xeon processors designed for
    high-performing computing applications in science and financial
    services; and eight-core Intel Xeon processors designed for
    highly parallel, data-demanding, and mission-critical workloads.
    Many of these processors integrate security capabilities
    designed to enhance data integrity and server virtualization.



Other
    Intel Architecture Operating Segments



Embedded
    and Communications Group



The Embedded and Communications Group (ECG) offers highly
    scalable microprocessors, including Intel Atom processors, and
    chipsets for a growing number of embedded applications across
    numerous market segments, such as industrial, medical, and
    in-vehicle infotainment.



Our new product offerings in 2010 and early 2011 include:

•Embedded Intel Core i7 processors, Intel Core i5 processors, and
    Intel Core i3 processors, all using our 32nm process technology
    and with integrated high-definition graphics functionality.
    These processors are supported by the Mobile Intel 5 Series
    Express Chipset family.•The first six-core Intel Xeon processor for the embedded
    computing segment, as well as quad-core processors that are
    built for thermally constrained environments.•Intel Atom processors designed for print imaging, digital
    security surveillance, in-vehicle infotainment systems, and
    other industrial applications.•Configurable Intel Atom processors that incorporate
    field-programmable gate arrays, designed to enable original
    equipment manufacturers (OEMs) to customize and differentiate
    their products.



Digital
    Home Group



The Digital Home Group offers products for use in consumer
    electronics devices designed to access and share Internet,
    broadcast, optical media (CD, DVD, or Blu-ray), and personal
    content through a variety of linked digital devices within the
    home. We offer components for consumer electronics devices such
    as digital TVs, high-definition media players, cable modems, and
    set-top boxes, which receive, decode, and convert incoming data
    signals. In 2010, we introduced Intel Atom processors designed
    to enable seamless integration of Internet, television, and
    personal content with search capability.



Ultra-Mobility
    Group



The Ultra-Mobility Group offers energy-efficient Intel Atom
    processors and related chipsets designed for the handheld market
    segment. In 2010, we introduced an Intel Atom processor-based
    platform that provides significantly lower power consumption
    compared to previous-generation Intel Atom processor-based
    platforms. The new platform is designed for a range of computing
    devices, including high-end smartphones and other mobile
    handheld products.





Other
    Operating Segments



NAND
    Solutions Group



The NAND Solutions Group offers NAND flash memory products
    primarily used in portable memory storage devices, digital
    camera memory cards, solid-state drives (SSDs), and other
    devices. Our SSDs, available in densities ranging from 32
    gigabytes (GB) to 250 GB, weigh less than traditional hard
    drives and are designed to enable faster boot times, lower power
    consumption, increased reliability, and improved performance.
    Our NAND flash memory products are manufactured by IM Flash
    Technologies, LLC (IMFT). See “Note 11: Equity Method and
    Cost Method Investments” in Part II, Item 8 of this Form10-K.



In 2010 and early 2011, we introduced 40-GB, 120-GB, and 250-GB
    SSDs based on 34nm NAND flash technology, designed for laptop
    and desktop computers. In addition, we introduced 40-GB and
    80-GB small-form-factor SSDs based on 34nm NAND flash
    technology, designed for dual-drive notebooks andall-in-onedesktops and tablet computers.



Wind
    River Software Group



The Wind River Software Group develops and licenses device
    software optimization products, including operating systems, for
    the needs of customers in the embedded and handheld market
    segments.



Manufacturing
    and Assembly and Test



As of December 25, 2010, 61% of our wafer fabrication, including
    microprocessors and chipsets, was conducted within the U.S. at
    our facilities in Arizona, New Mexico, Oregon, and
    Massachusetts. The remaining 39% of our wafer fabrication was
    conducted outside the U.S. at our facilities in Israel, Ireland,
    and China. Our China facility began wafer manufacturing in the
    fourth quarter of 2010.



As of December 25, 2010, we primarily manufactured our products
    in wafer fabrication facilities at the following locations:



ProductsWafer SizeProcess TechnologyLocationsMicroprocessors300mm32nmOregon, Arizona, New MexicoMicroprocessors300mm45nmIsrael, New MexicoChipsets and microprocessors300mm65nmIreland, Arizona, ChinaChipsets and other products300mm90nmIrelandChipsets and other products200mm130nm and aboveMassachusetts, Ireland





As of December 25, 2010, the majority of our microprocessors
    were manufactured on 300mm wafers using our 32nm process
    technology. In the second half of 2011, we expect to begin
    manufacturing microprocessors using our 22nm process technology.
    As we move to each succeeding generation of manufacturing
    process technology, we incur significantstart-upcosts to prepare each factory for manufacturing. However,
    continuing to advance our process technology provides benefits
    that we believe justify these costs. The benefits of moving to
    each succeeding generation of manufacturing process technology
    can include using less space per transistor, reducing heat
    output from each transistor,and/orincreasing the number of integrated features on each chip. These
    advancements can result in microprocessors that are higher
    performing, consume less power,and/orcost
    less to manufacture.



We use third-party manufacturing companies (foundries) to
    manufacture wafers for certain components, including networking
    and communications products. In addition, we primarily use
    subcontractors to manufacture board-level products and systems,
    and purchase certain communications networking products from
    external vendors in the Asia-Pacific region.



Following the manufacturing process, the majority of our
    components are subject to assembly and test. We perform our
    components assembly and test at facilities in Malaysia, China,
    Costa Rica, and Vietnam. Our Vietnam facility began production
    in the first half of 2010. To augment capacity, we use
    subcontractors to perform assembly of certain products,
    primarily chipsets and networking and communications products.



Our NAND flash memory products are manufactured by IMFT, a NAND
    flash memory manufacturing company that we formed with Micron
    Technology, Inc. Our NAND flash memory products are manufactured
    by IMFT using 25nm, 34nm, or 50nm process technology. As of
    December 25, 2010, we were committed to purchase 49% of the
    manufactured output of IMFT. Assembly and test of NAND flash
    memory products is performed by Micron and other external
    subcontractors. See “Note 11: Equity Method and Cost Method
    Investments” in Part II, Item 8 of this Form10-K.



Our employment practices are consistent with, and we expect our
    suppliers and subcontractors to abide by, local country law. In
    addition, we impose a minimum employee age requirement as well
    as progressive EHS requirements, regardless of local law.





We have thousands of suppliers, including subcontractors,
    providing our various materials and service needs. We set
    expectations for supplier performance and reinforce those
    expectations with periodic assessments. We communicate those
    expectations to our suppliers regularly and work with them to
    implement improvements when necessary. We seek, where possible,
    to have several sources of supply for all of these materials and
    resources, but we may rely on a single or limited number of
    suppliers, or upon suppliers in a single country. In those
    cases, we develop and implement plans and actions to reduce the
    exposure that would result from a disruption in supply. We have
    entered into long-term contracts with certain suppliers to
    ensure a portion of our silicon supply.



Our products are typically produced at multiple Intel facilities
    at various sites around the world, or by subcontractors who have
    multiple facilities. However, some products are produced in only
    one Intel or subcontractor facility, and we seek to implement
    action plans to reduce the exposure that would result from a
    disruption at any such facility. See “Risk Factors” in
    Part I, Item 1A of this Form10-K.



Research
    and Development



We are committed to investing in world-class technology
    development, particularly in the design and manufacture of
    integrated circuits. Research and development (R&D)
    expenditures in 2010 were $6.6 billion ($5.7 billion in 2009 and
    2008).



Our R&D activities are directed toward developing the
    technology innovations that we believe will deliver our next
    generation of products and platforms, which will in turn enable
    new form factors and usage models for businesses and consumers.
    Our R&D activities range from designing and developing new
    products and manufacturing processes to researching future
    technologies and products.



We are focusing our R&D efforts on advanced computing
    technologies, developing new microarchitectures, advancing our
    silicon manufacturing process technology, delivering the next
    generation of microprocessors and chipsets, improving our
    platform initiatives, and developing software solutions and
    tools to support our technologies. Our R&D efforts enable
    new levels of performance and address areas such as energy
    efficiency, security, scalability for multi-core architectures,
    system manageability, and ease of use. We continue to make
    significant R&D investments in the development of SoCs to
    enable growth in areas such as handheld devices, embedded
    applications, and consumer electronics. In addition, we continue
    to make significant investments in wireless technologies,
    graphics, and high-performance computing.



As part of our R&D efforts, we plan to introduce a new
    microarchitecture for our notebook, desktop, and Intel Xeon
    processors approximately every two years and ramp the next
    generation of silicon process technology in the intervening
    years. We refer to this as our “tick-tock” technology
    development cadence. In 2010, we introduced our 2nd generation
    Intel Core microarchitecture, a new microarchitecture using our
    existing 32nm process technology. We are currently developing
    22nm process technology, our next-generation process technology,
    and expect to begin manufacturing products using that technology
    in the second half of 2011. Our leadership in silicon technology
    has enabled us to make “Moore’s Law” a reality.
    Moore’s Law predicted that transistor density on integrated
    circuits would double about every two years. Our leadership in
    silicon technology has also helped expand on the advances
    anticipated by Moore’s Law by bringing new capabilities
    into silicon and producing new products and platforms optimized
    for a wider variety of applications.



Our R&D model is based on a global organization that
    emphasizes a collaborative approach to identifying and
    developing new technologies, leading standards initiatives, and
    influencing regulatory policies to accelerate the adoption of
    new technologies. Our R&D initiatives are performed by
    various internal business groups, and we centrally manage key
    cross-business group product initiatives to align and prioritize
    our R&D activities across these groups. In addition, we may
    augment our R&D initiatives by investing in companies or
    entering into agreements with companies that have similar
    R&D focus areas. For example, we have an agreement with
    Micron for joint development of NAND flash memory technologies.



Employees



As of December 25, 2010, we had 82,500 employees worldwide, with
    approximately 55% of those employees located in the U.S.



Sales and
    Marketing



Customers



We sell our products primarily to original equipment
    manufacturers (OEMs) and original design manufacturers (ODMs).
    ODMs provide designand/ormanufacturing services to branded and unbranded private-label
    resellers. In addition, we sell our products to other
    manufacturers, including makers of a wide range of industrial
    and communications equipment. Our customers also include those
    who buy PC components and our other products through
    distributor, reseller, retail, and OEM channels throughout the
    world.





Our worldwide reseller sales channel consists of thousands of
    indirect customers—systems builders that purchase Intel
    microprocessors and other products from our distributors. We
    have a boxed processor program that allows distributors to sell
    Intel microprocessors in small quantities to these
    systems-builder customers; boxed processors are also available
    in direct retail outlets.



In 2010, Hewlett-Packard Company accounted for 21% of our net
    revenue (21% in 2009 and 20% in 2008) and Dell Inc. accounted
    for 17% of our net revenue (17% in 2009 and 18% in 2008). No
    other customer accounted for more than 10% of our net revenue.
    For information about revenue and operating income by operating
    segment, and revenue from unaffiliated customers by geographic
    region/country, see “Results of Operations” in Part
    II, Item 7 and “Note 30: Operating Segment and Geographic
    Information” in Part II, Item 8 of this Form10-K.



Sales
    Arrangements



Our products are sold through sales offices throughout the
    world. Sales of our products are typically made via purchase
    order acknowledgments that contain standard terms and conditions
    covering matters such as pricing, payment terms, and warranties,
    as well as indemnities for issues specific to our products, such
    as patent and copyright indemnities. From time to time, we may
    enter into additional agreements with customers covering, for
    example, changes from our standard terms and conditions, new
    product development and marketing, private-label branding, and
    other matters. Most of our sales are made using electronic and
    web-based processes that allow the customer to review inventory
    availability and track the progress of specific goods ordered.
    Pricing on particular products may vary based on volumes ordered
    and other factors. We also offer discounts, rebates, and other
    incentives to customers to increase acceptance of our products
    and technology.



Our products are typically shipped under terms that transfer
    title to the customer, even in arrangements for which the
    recognition of revenue and related costs of sales is deferred.
    Our standard terms and conditions of sale typically provide that
    payment is due at a later date, generally 30 days after shipment
    or delivery. Our credit department sets accounts receivable and
    shipping limits for individual customers to control credit risk
    to Intel arising from outstanding account balances. We assess
    credit risk through quantitative and qualitative analysis, and
    from this analysis, we establish credit limits and determine
    whether we will seek to use one or more credit support devices,
    such as obtaining some form of third-party guarantee or standby
    letter of credit, or obtaining credit insurance for all or a
    portion of the account balance if necessary. Credit losses may
    still be incurred due to bankruptcy, fraud, or other failure of
    the customer to pay. For information about our allowance for
    doubtful receivables, see “Schedule II—Valuation and
    Qualifying Accounts” in Part IV of this Form10-K.



Most of our sales to distributors are made under agreements
    allowing for price protection on unsold merchandise and a right
    of return on stipulated quantities of unsold merchandise. Under
    the price protection program, we give distributors credits for
    the difference between the original price paid and the current
    price that we offer. On most products, there is no contractual
    limit on the amount of price protection, nor is there a limit on
    the time horizon under which price protection is granted. The
    right of return granted generally consists of a stock rotation
    program in which distributors are able to exchange certain
    products based on the number of qualified purchases made by the
    distributor. We have the option to grant credit for, repair, or
    replace defective products, and there is no contractual limit on
    the amount of credit that may be granted to a distributor for
    defective products.



Distribution



Distributors typically handle a wide variety of products,
    including those that compete with our products, and fill orders
    for many customers. We also utilize third-party sales
    representatives who generally do not offer directly competitive
    products but may carry complementary items manufactured by
    others. Sales representatives do not maintain a product
    inventory; instead, their customers place orders directly with
    us or through distributors. We have several distribution
    warehouses that are located in close proximity to key customers.



Backlog



We do not believe that backlog as of any particular date is
    meaningful, as our sales are made primarily pursuant to standard
    purchase orders for delivery of products. Only a small portion
    of our orders is non-cancelable, and the dollar amount
    associated with the non-cancelable portion is not significant.



Seasonal
    Trends



Our microprocessor sales generally have followed a seasonal
    trend. Historically, our sales have been higher in the second
    half of the year than in the first half of the year,
    accelerating in the third quarter and peaking in the fourth
    quarter. Consumer purchases of PCs have historically been higher
    in the second half of the year, primarily due toback-to-schooland holiday demand. In addition, purchases from businesses have
    also historically tended to be higher in the second half of the
    year.





Marketing



Our corporate marketing objectives are to build a strong,
    well-known Intel corporate brand that connects with businesses
    and consumers, and to offer a limited number of meaningful and
    valuable brands in our portfolio to aid businesses and consumers
    in making informed choices about technology purchases. The Intel
    Core processor family and the Intel Atom,
    Intel®Pentium®,

    Intel®Celeron®,

    Intel Xeon, and Intel Itanium trademarks make up our processor
    brands.



We promote brand awareness and generate demand through our own
    direct marketing as well as co-marketing programs. Our direct
    marketing activities include television, print, and Internet
    advertising, as well as press relations, consumer and trade
    events, and industry and consumer communications. We market to
    consumer and business audiences, and focus on building awareness
    and generating demand for increased performance, improved energy
    efficiency, and other capabilities such as Internet connectivity
    and security.



Purchases by customers often allow them to participate in
    cooperative advertising and marketing programs such as the Intel
    Inside®Program. This program broadens the reach of our brands beyond
    the scope of our own direct marketing. Through the Intel Inside
    Program, certain customers are licensed to place Intel logos on
    computers containing our microprocessors and processor
    technologies, and to use our brands in their marketing
    activities. The program includes a market development component
    that accrues funds based on purchases and partially reimburses
    the OEMs for marketing activities for products featuring Intel
    brands, subject to the OEMs meeting defined criteria. These
    marketing activities primarily include television, print, and
    Internet marketing. We have also entered into joint marketing
    arrangements with certain customers.



Competition



The semiconductor industry is dynamic, characterized by rapid
    advances in technology and frequent product introductions. As
    unit volumes of a product grow, production experience is
    accumulated and costs typically decrease, further competition
    develops, and prices decline. The life cycle of our products is
    very short, sometimes less than a year. These short product life
    cycles and other factors lead to frequent negotiations with our
    OEM customers, which typically are large, sophisticated buyers
    who are also operating in very competitive environments. Our
    ability to compete depends on our ability to navigate this
    environment, by improving our products and processes faster than
    our competitors, anticipating changing customer requirements,
    developing and launching new products and platforms, pricing our
    products competitively, and reducing average unit cost. See
    “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of this Form10-K.



Our products compete primarily based on performance, energy
    efficiency, features, price, quality, reliability, brand
    recognition, and availability. We are focused on offering
    innovative products and worldwide support for our customers at
    competitive prices, including providing improved
    energy-efficient performance, enhanced security, and Internet
    connectivity. We believe that our computing platforms, which we
    define as integrated hardware and software computing
    technologies that are designed to provide an optimized solution,
    provide us with a competitive advantage compared to components
    that are used separately.



We believe that our network of manufacturing facilities and
    assembly and test facilities gives us a competitive advantage.
    This network enables us to have more direct control over our
    processes, quality control, product cost, volume, timing of
    production, and other factors. These facilities require
    significant up-front capital spending and therefore make it
    difficult for us to reduce our costs in the short term. Many of
    our competitors do not own such facilities because they may not
    be able to afford to do so or because their business models
    involve the use of third-party foundries and assembly and test
    subcontractors for manufacturing and assembly and test. The
    third-party foundries and subcontractors may also offer
    intellectual property, design services, and other goods and
    services to our competitors. These “fabless”
    semiconductor companies include Broadcom Corporation, NVIDIA
    Corporation, QUALCOMM Incorporated, and VIA Technologies, Inc.
    Some of our competitors, such as Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
    (AMD), own portions of such facilities through investment or
    joint-venture arrangements with other companies.



We plan to continue to cultivate new businesses and work with
    the computing and communications industries through standards
    bodies, trade associations, OEMs, ODMs, and independent software
    and operating system vendors to help align the industry to offer
    products that take advantage of the latest market trends and
    usage models. We frequently participate in industry initiatives
    designed to discuss and agree upon technical specifications and
    other aspects of technologies that could be adopted as standards
    by standards-setting organizations. Our competitors may also
    participate in the same initiatives and specification
    development. Our participation does not ensure that any
    standards or specifications adopted by these organizations will
    be consistent with our product planning.





Microprocessors



We continue to be largely dependent on the success of our
    microprocessor business. Our ability to compete depends on our
    ability to deliver new microprocessor products with increased
    performance capabilities and improved energy-efficient
    performance at competitive prices. Some of our microprocessor
    competitors, such as AMD, market software-compatible products
    that compete with our processors. We also face competition from
    companies offering rival architecture designs, such as Cell
    Broadband Engine Architecture developed jointly by International
    Business Machines Corporation (IBM), Sony Corporation, and
    Toshiba Corporation; Power Architecture* offered by IBM; ARM*
    architecture developed by ARM Limited; and Sun Scalable
    Processor Architecture (SPARC*) offered by Oracle Corporation.
    In addition, NVIDIA has begun developing CPUs based on the ARM
    architecture to combine with its graphics processors and has
    shifted some of the workload traditionally performed by the
    microprocessor to its graphics processor.



AMD has been our primary competitor in the market segments for
    microprocessors used in notebooks, desktops, and servers, while
    companies using ARM-based designs are our primary competitors in
    the growing market segments for microprocessors used in handheld
    devices and tablets. Companies using ARM-based designs are also
    targeting the notebook, netbook, and server market segments. ARM
    does not manufacture microprocessors; they design and license
    semiconductor intellectual property and offer supporting
    software and services. Our ability to compete with ARM-based
    competitors depends on our ability to design and produce
    high-performance, energy-efficient microprocessors at
    competitive prices. It also requires us to develop a software
    ecosystem that appeals to end users and software developers. We
    have taken a number of steps to build this software ecosystem,
    including the development of MeeGo*, a Linux-based software
    platform that will run on multiple hardware platforms; acquiring
    McAfee, Inc., which we expect to complete in the first quarter
    of 2011, and Wind River Systems, Inc.; and creating the
    Intel®AtomtmDeveloper Program.



The following is a list of our main microprocessor competitors
    by market segment:

•PC Client: AMD, QUALCOMM, and VIA•Server: AMD, IBM, and Oracle•Application
    Processors1:

    AMD, Broadcom, Freescale Semiconductor, Inc., MediaTek Inc.,
    NVIDIA, QUALCOMM, Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.,
    STMicroelectronics N.V., and Texas Instruments Incorporated (TI)•Mobile Communications
    Processors2:

    MediaTek, QUALCOMM, ST-Ericsson N.V., and TI







1The application processors market segment includes
    microprocessors designed for embedded applications, consumer
    electronics devices, and tablets.2The mobile communications processors market segment includes
    microprocessors designed for handheld devices.



Chipsets



Our chipsets compete with chipsets produced by companies such as
    AMD (including chipsets marketed under the ATI Technologies,
    Inc. brand), Broadcom, NVIDIA, Silicon Integrated Systems
    Corporation, and VIA. We also compete with companies offering
    graphics components and other special-purpose products used in
    the notebook, netbook, desktop, and workstation market segments.
    One aspect of our business model is to incorporate improved
    performance and advanced properties into our microprocessors and
    chipsets, for which demand may increasingly be affected by
    competition from companies whose business models are based on
    dedicated chipsets and other components, such as graphics
    controllers.



Flash
    Memory



Our NAND flash memory products currently compete with NAND
    products primarily manufactured by Hynix Semiconductor Inc.,
    Micron, Samsung, SanDisk Corporation, and Toshiba.



Connectivity



We offer products designed for wireless and wired connectivity,
    and network processors. Our WiFi and WiMAX products currently
    compete with products manufactured by Atheros Communications,
    Inc., Broadcom, QUALCOMM, and other smaller companies.



Competition
    Lawsuits and Government Matters



We are currently a party to lawsuits and government matters
    involving our competitive practices. See “Note 29:
    Contingencies” in Part II, Item 8 of this Form10-K.





Acquisitions
    and Strategic Investments



We expect to complete the acquisition of McAfee in the first
    quarter of 2011. McAfee is a provider of security products and
    services that help secure systems and networks. As a result of
    the acquisition, we expect to hire approximately 6,400 McAfee
    employees. McAfee’s offerings will include endpoint
    security products, system security products, consumer security
    products, network security products, and risk and compliance
    products. Many of McAfee’s products are offered under a
    software-as-a-service delivery model, an online console used to
    manage and update hardware and software, which reduces
    on-premise capital expenses. The anticipated acquisition of
    McAfee reflects our belief that security is a fundamental
    component of online computing. As we develop future products and
    services, security considerations will be as important as our
    continued focus on energy-efficient performance and Internet
    connectivity.



In the first quarter of 2011, we completed the acquisition of
    the WLS business of Infineon. As a result of the acquisition, we
    expect to hire approximately 3,700 employees from Infineon. The
    WLS business will operate as Intel Mobile Communications and
    offer mobile phone components such as baseband processors, radio
    frequency transceivers, and power management chips. In addition
    to managing the existing WLS business, the objective of the
    acquisition is to contribute to our strategy to provide
    solutions with Internet connectivity to a broad range of
    computing devices.



During 2009, we completed the acquisition of Wind River Systems,
    a vendor of software for embedded devices. The objective of the
    acquisition of Wind River Systems was to enable the introduction
    of products for the embedded and handheld market segments,
    resulting in benefits for our existing operations.



For further information, see “Note 15: Acquisitions”
    in Part II, Item 8 of this Form10-K.



Intellectual
    Property and Licensing



Intellectual property rights that apply to our products and
    services include patents, copyrights, trade secrets, trademarks,
    and maskwork rights. We maintain a program to protect our
    investment in technology by attempting to ensure respect for our
    intellectual property rights. The extent of the legal protection
    given to different types of intellectual property rights varies
    under different countries’ legal systems. We intend to
    license our intellectual property rights where we can obtain
    adequate consideration. See “Competition” earlier in
    this section, “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A, and
    “Note 29: Contingencies” in Part II, Item 8 of this
    Form10-K.



We have filed and obtained a number of patents in the U.S. and
    other countries. While our patents are an important element of
    our success, our business as a whole is not significantly
    dependent on any one patent. Because of the fast pace of
    innovation and product development, our products are often
    obsolete before the patents related to them expire, and
    sometimes are obsolete before the patents related to them are
    even granted. As we expand our product offerings into new
    industries, we also seek to extend our patent development
    efforts to patent such product offerings. Established
    competitors in existing and new industries, as well as companies
    that purchase and enforce patents and other intellectual
    property, may already have patents covering similar products.
    There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain patents
    covering our own products, or that we will be able to obtain
    licenses from such companies on favorable terms or at all.



The majority of the software that we distribute, including
    software embedded in our component-level and system-level
    products, is entitled to copyright protection. To distinguish
    Intel products from our competitors’ products, we have
    obtained certain trademarks and trade names for our products,
    and we maintain cooperative advertising programs with certain
    customers to promote our brands and to identify products
    containing genuine Intel components. We also protect certain
    details about our processes, products, and strategies as trade
    secrets, keeping confidential the information that we believe
    provides us with a competitive advantage.



Compliance
    with Environmental, Health, and Safety Regulations



Our compliance efforts focus on monitoring regulatory and
    resource trends and setting company-wide performance targets for
    key resources and emissions. These targets address several
    parameters, including product design; chemical, energy, and
    water use; climate change; waste recycling; and emissions.



Intel focuses on reducing natural resource use, the solid and
    chemical waste by-products of our manufacturing processes, and
    the environmental impact of our products. We currently use a
    variety of materials in our manufacturing process that have the
    potential to adversely impact the environment and are subject to
    a variety of EHS laws and regulations. Over the past several
    years, we have significantly reduced the use of lead and
    halogenated flame retardants in our products and manufacturing
    processes.





We work with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA),
    non-governmental organizations, OEMs, and retailers to help
    managee-waste(which includes electronic products nearing the end of their
    useful lives) and promote recycling. The European Union requires
    producers of certain electrical and electronic equipment to
    develop programs that allow consumers to return products for
    recycling. Many states in the U.S. have similare-wastetake-back laws. Although these laws are typically targeted at
    the end electronic product and not the component products that
    Intel manufactures, the inconsistency of manye-wastetake-back laws and the lack of locale-wastemanagement options in many areas pose a challenge for our
    compliance efforts.



Intel seeks to reduce our global greenhouse gas emissions by
    investing in energy conservation projects in our factories and
    working with suppliers to improve energy efficiency. We take a
    holistic approach to power management, addressing the challenge
    at the silicon, package, circuit, micro/macro architecture,
    platform, and software levels. We recognize that climate change
    may cause general economic risk. For further information on the
    risks of climate change, see “Risk Factors” in Part I,
    Item 1A of this Form10-K.We see
    the potential for higher energy costs driven by climate change
    regulations. This could include items applied to utilities that
    are passed along to customers, such as carbon taxes or costs
    associated with obtaining permits for our U.S. manufacturing
    operations, emission cap and trade programs, or renewable
    portfolio standards.



We are committed to sustainability and take a leadership
    position in promoting voluntary environmental initiatives and
    working proactively with governments, environmental groups, and
    industry to promote global environmental sustainability. We
    believe that technology will be fundamental to finding solutions
    to the world’s environmental challenges, and we are joining
    forces with industry, business, and governments to find and
    promote ways that technology can be used as a tool to combat
    climate change.



We have been purchasing wind power and other forms of renewable
    energy at some of our major sites for several years. At the
    beginning of 2008, we announced plans to purchase renewable
    energy certificates under a multi-year contract. The purchase
    has placed Intel at the top of the EPA’s Green Power
    Partnership for the past three years and was intended to help
    stimulate the market for green power, leading to additional
    generating capacity and, ultimately, lower costs.





Executive
    Officers of the Registrant



The following sets forth certain information with regard to our
    executive officers as of February 18, 2011 (ages are as of
    December 25, 2010):





Andy D. Bryant, age 60•   2009 – present,Executive VP, Technology,  Manufacturing, and Enterprise
    Services,  Chief Administrative Officer•   2007 – 2009,Executive VP, Finance and Enterprise Services, Chief
    Administrative Officer•   2001 – 2007,Executive VP, Chief Financial and Enterprise Services Officer•   Member of Columbia Sportswear Company
    Board of Directors•   Member of McKesson Corporation Board of
    Directors•   Joined Intel 1981William M. Holt, age 58•   2006 – present,Senior VP, GM, Technology and  Manufacturing Group•   2005 – 2006,VP, Co-GM, Technology and Manufacturing Group•   Joined Intel 1974Thomas M. Kilroy, age 53•   2010 – present,Senior VP, GM, Sales and Marketing Group•   2009 – 2010,VP, GM, Sales and Marketing Group•   2005 – 2009,VP, GM, Digital Enterprise Group•   Joined Intel 1990A. Douglas Melamed, age 65•   2009 – present,Senior VP, General Counsel•   2001 – 2009,Partner, Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP•   Joined Intel 2009





Paul S. Otellini, age 60•   2005 – present,President, Chief Executive Officer•   Member of Intel Corporation Board of
    Directors•   Member of Google, Inc. Board of Directors•   Joined Intel 1974David Perlmutter, age 57•   2009 – present,Executive VP, GM, Intel Architecture Group•   2007 – 2009,Executive VP, GM, Mobility Group•   2005 – 2007,Senior VP, GM, Mobility Group•   Joined Intel 1980Stacy J. Smith, age 48•   2010 – present,Senior VP, Chief Financial Officer•   2007 – 2010,VP, Chief Financial Officer•   2006 – 2007,VP, Assistant Chief Financial Officer•   2004 – 2006,VP, Finance and Enterprise Services, Chief Information Officer•   Member of Gevo, Inc. Board of Directors•   Joined Intel 1988Arvind Sodhani, age 56•   2007 – present,Executive VP of Intel, President of Intel Capital•   2005 – 2007,Senior VP of Intel, President of Intel Capital•   Member of Clearwire Corporation Board of
    Directors•   Member of SMART Technologies, Inc. Board
    of Directors•   Joined Intel 1981

















