ITEM 1.BUSINESS



Industry



We are the world’s largest
    semiconductor chip maker, based on revenue. We develop advanced
    integrated digital technology products, primarily integrated
    circuits, for industries such as computing and communications.
    Integrated circuits are semiconductor chips etched with
    interconnected electronic switches. We also develop platforms,
    which we define as integrated suites of digital computing
    technologies that are designed and configured to work together
    to provide an optimized user computing solution compared to
    components that are used separately. Our goal is to be the
    preeminent provider of semiconductor chips and platforms for the
    worldwide digital economy.



We were incorporated in California
    in 1968 and reincorporated in Delaware in 1989. Our Internet
    address iswww.intel.com. On this web site, we publish
    voluntary reports, which we update annually, outlining our
    performance with respect to corporate responsibility, including
    environmental, health, and safety (EHS) compliance.



We use our Investor Relations web
    site,www.intc.com, as a routine channel for distribution
    of important information, including news releases, analyst
    presentations, and financial information. We post filings as
    soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically
    filed with, or furnished to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange
    Commission (SEC), including our annual and quarterly reports on
    Forms10-Kand10-Q(including related filings in XBRL format) and current reports
    on Form8-K;our proxy statements; and any amendments to those reports or
    statements. All such postings and filings are available on our
    Investor Relations web site free of charge. In addition, our web
    site allows investors and other interested persons to sign up to
    automatically receivee-mailalerts when we post news releases and financial information. The
    SEC also maintains a web site,www.sec.gov, that contains
    reports, proxy and information statements, and other information
    regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The
    content on any web site referred to in this Form10-Kis not
    incorporated by reference into this Form10-Kunless
    expressly noted.



Company
    Organization



At the end of 2009, we reorganized
    our business to better align our major product groups around the
    core competencies of
    Intel®architecture and our manufacturing operations. After the
    reorganization, we have nine operating segments:



•PC Client
    Group.Delivering
    a high-quality computing and Internet experience through Intel
    architecture-based products and platforms, primarily for
    notebooks, netbooks, and desktops.

•Data Center
    Group.Delivering
    server, storage, and workstation platforms for small, medium,
    and large enterprises.

•Embedded and Communications
    Group.Delivering
    Intel architecture-based products as solutions for embedded
    applications through long life-cycle support, software and
    architectural scalability, and platform integration.

•Digital Home
    Group.Delivering
    Intel architecture-based products for next-generation consumer
    electronics devices with interactive Internet content and
    traditional broadcast programming.

•Ultra-Mobility
    Group.Building
    a business in the next-generation handheld market segment with
    low-power Intelarchitecture-basedproducts.

•NAND Solutions
    Group.Delivering
    advanced NAND flash memory products for use in a variety of
    devices.

•Wind River Software
    Group.A
    wholly owned subsidiary delivering device software optimization
    products to the embedded and handheld market segments, serving a
    variety of hardware architectures.

•Software and Services
    Group.Delivering
    software products and services, in addition to promoting Intel
    architecture as the platform of choice for software development.

•Digital Health
    Group.Delivering
    technology-enabled products that are designed to reduce
    healthcare costs and connect people and information to improve
    patient care and safety.





Products



We design and manufacture
    computing and communications components, such as
    microprocessors, chipsets, motherboards, and wireless and wired
    connectivity products, as well as platforms that incorporate
    these components. We strive to optimize the overall performance
    improvements of our products by balancing increased performance
    capabilities with improved energy efficiency. Increased
    performance can include faster processing performance and other
    improved capabilities, such as multithreading and multitasking.
    Performance can also be improved through enhanced connectivity,
    storage, security, manageability, utilization, reliability, ease
    of use, and interoperability among devices. Improved energy
    efficiency is achieved by lowering power consumption in relation
    to performance capabilities, which may extend utilization time
    for battery-powered form factors and reduce system heat output,
    thereby providing power savings and reducing the total cost of
    ownership.



We offer products at various
    levels of integration, to allow our customers flexibility in
    creating computing and communications systems. The substantial
    majority of our revenue is from the sale of microprocessors and
    chipsets.



Components



Microprocessors



A microprocessor—the central
    processing unit (CPU) of a computer system—processes system
    data and controls other devices in the system, acting as the
    “brains” of the computer. We offer microprocessors
    with one or multiple processor cores designed for notebooks,
    netbooks, desktops, servers, workstations, storage products,
    embedded applications, communications products, consumer
    electronics devices, and handhelds. The following are
    characteristics of our microprocessors:

•Multi-core microprocessors contain
    two or more processor cores, which can enable improved
    multitasking and energy-efficient performance by distributing
    computing tasks across multiple cores.•Cache is memory that can be
    located directly on the microprocessor. Incorporating additional
    amountsand/orlevels of cache can enable higher performance by permitting
    quicker access to frequently used data and instructions.•Some of our microprocessors also
    include an integrated memory controller or an integrated memory
    controller and integrated graphics functionality. Both an
    integrated memory controller and integrated graphics
    functionality can increase the speed at which data is
    transferred between system components.



Most of our microprocessors are
    based on the latest generation
    Intel®Coretmmicroarchitecture and are manufactured using our45-nanometer(nm) Hi-k metal gate silicon process technology (45nm process
    technology) or our 32nm second-generation Hi-k metal gate
    silicon process technology (32nm process technology). These
    technologies are the first to use Hi-k metal gate transistors,
    which increase performance while simultaneously reducing the
    leakage of currents. Microarchitecture refers to the layout,
    density, and logical design of a microprocessor. The latest
    generation Intel Core microarchitecture incorporates features
    designed to increase performance and energy efficiency, such as:

•Intel®Turbo Boost Technology, which increases processor
    frequency when applications demand more performance; and•Intel®Hyper-Threading Technology, which allows each processor
    core to process two software tasks or threads simultaneously.



We also offer, and are continuing
    to develop, System on Chip (SoC) products that integrate our
    core processing functionalities with other system components,
    such as graphics, audio, and video, onto a single chip to form a
    purpose-built solution. SoC products are designed to provide
    improved performance due to higher integration, lower power
    consumption, and smaller form factors.



Chipsets



The chipset operates as the
    “nervous system” in a PC or other computing device,
    sending data between the microprocessor and input, display, and
    storage devices, such as the keyboard, mouse, monitor, hard
    drive or solid-state drive, and CD, DVD, or Blu-ray* drive. We
    offer chipsets designed for notebooks, netbooks, desktops,
    servers, workstations, storage products, embedded applications,
    communications products, consumer electronics devices, and
    handhelds. Chipsets extend the audio, video, and other
    capabilities of many systems and perform essential logic
    functions, such as balancing the performance of the system and
    removing bottlenecks. Some chipsets may also include graphics
    functionality or graphics functionality and a memory controller,
    for use with our microprocessors that do not integrate those
    system components.





Motherboards



We offer motherboard products
    designed for our desktop, server, and workstation platforms. A
    motherboard is the principal board within a system, and
    typically contains the microprocessor, chipset, memory, and
    other components. The motherboard also has connectors for
    attaching devices to the bus, which is the subsystem that
    transfers data between various components of a computer.



Wireless
    and Wired Connectivity



We offer wireless and wired
    connectivity products, including network adapters and embedded
    wireless cards, based on industry-standard protocols used to
    translate and transmit data across networks. Wireless
    connectivity products based on WiFi technology allow users to
    wirelessly connect to high-speed local area networks, typically
    within a close range. We have also developed wireless
    connectivity products for both mobile and fixed networks based
    on WiMAX, a standards-based wireless technology providing
    high-speed broadband connectivity that can link users and
    networks up to several miles apart.



Platforms



A platform typically includes a
    microprocessor, chipset, and enabling software, and may include
    additional hardware, services, and support. In developing our
    platforms, we may include components made by other companies.
    Platforms based on our latest generation Intel Core
    microarchitecture using our 32nm process technology integrate a
    memory controller and graphics functionality into each
    microprocessor, and connect the microprocessor and other
    components with a high-speed interconnect. We refer to certain
    platform brands within our product offerings as processor
    technologies.



Microprocessor
    and Platform Technologies



We offer features to improve
    microprocessor and platform capabilities that can enhance system
    performance and user experience. For example, we offer
    technologies that can help information technology managers
    maintain, manage, and protect enabled systems that are plugged
    into a power source and connected to a network, even if a
    computer is turned off or has a failed hard drive or operating
    system. Additional features can enable virtualization, in which
    a single computer system can function as multiple virtual
    systems by running multiple operating systems and applications.
    Virtualization can consolidate workloads and provide increased
    security and management capabilities. To take advantage of these
    and other features that we offer, a computer system must have a
    microprocessor that supports a chipset and BIOS (basic
    input/output system) that use the technology, and software that
    is optimized for the technology. Performance will vary depending
    on the system hardware and software used.



Additional
    Product Offerings



NAND flash
    memoryis a
    specialized type of memory component primarily used in portable
    memory storage devices, digital camera memory cards, solid-state
    drives, and other devices. NAND flash memory retains information
    even when the power is off, and provides faster access to data
    than traditional hard drives. Because flash memory does not have
    any moving parts, it tolerates bumps and shocks better than
    devices such as rapidly spinning disk drives.



Network
    processorsare
    advanced, fully programmable processors used in networking
    equipment to rapidly manage and direct data moving across
    networks and the Internet.



Software
    productsinclude
    operating systems, middleware, and tools used to develop, run,
    and manage a wide variety of enterprise, consumer, embedded, and
    handheld devices. In addition, we offer software development
    tools, designed to complement our latest hardware technologies,
    that help enable the creation of applications.



Healthcare
    productsare
    technology-enabled devices for healthcare providers and personal
    healthcare that are designed to connect people and information
    to improve patient care and safety.





Revenue
    by Major Operating Segment



Net revenue for the PC Client
    Group (PCCG) operating segment, the Data Center Group (DCG)
    operating segment, and the other Intel architecture operating
    segments (Other IA) is presented as a percentage of our
    consolidated net revenue. Other IA includes the Embedded and
    Communications Group, the Digital Home Group, and the
    Ultra-Mobility Group operating segments.



Percentage
    of Revenue(Dollars
    in Millions)







Revenue from sales of
    microprocessors within the PCCG operating segment represented
    57% of our consolidated net revenue in 2009 (57% in 2008 and 55%
    in 2007), and revenue from sales of microprocessors within the
    DCG operating segment represented 15% of our consolidated net
    revenue in 2009 (14% in 2008 and 13% in 2007).



Below, we discuss the key products
    and processor technologies, including some key introductions, of
    our operating segments. For a discussion of our strategy, see
    “Strategy” in Part II, Item 7 of this Form10-K.



PC
    Client Group



The PC Client Group (PCCG) offers
    microprocessors and related chipsets designed for the notebook,
    netbook, and desktop market segments. In addition, PCCG offers
    motherboards designed for the desktop market segment, and
    wireless connectivity products.



Notebooks
    and Netbooks



Our current notebook and netbook
    microprocessor offerings include the:

•     Intel®Coretmi7 processor Extreme Edition•     Intel®Coretm2

Duo mobile processor•     Intel®Coretmi7 mobile processor•     Intel®Coretm2

Solo processor•     Intel®Coretmi5 mobile processor•     Intel®Celeron®D processor•     Intel®Coretmi3 mobile processor•     Intel®Celeron®M processor•     Intel®Coretm2

Extreme mobile processor•     Intel®Celeron®processor•     Intel®Coretm2

Quad mobile processor•     Intel®Atomtmprocessor





We offer microprocessors for
    notebooks at a variety of price and performance points, from the
    Intel Core i7 processor Extreme Edition—a quad-core
    processor based on our latest generation Intel Core
    microarchitecture designed forprocessor-intensivetasks in demanding multitasking environments—to the Intel
    Celeron processor, designed to provide value, quality, and
    reliability for basic computing needs. In addition, we offer the
    Intel Atom processor, designed for netbooks. We offer these
    processors in various packaging options, includingultra-low-voltageprocessors designed for ultra-thin laptop computers, giving our
    customers flexibility for a wide range of system designs for
    notebook PCs. The related chipsets for our notebook and netbook
    microprocessor offerings primarily include Mobile
    Intel®5 Series Express Chipsets, Mobile
    Intel®4 Series Express Chipsets, Mobile
    Intel®900 Series Express Chipsets, and the
    Intel®NM10 Express Chipset. In addition, we offer wireless
    connectivity products based on WiFi and WiMAX technologies.





We also offer processor
    technologies designed to provide high performance with improved
    multitasking; and power-saving features to improve battery life,
    wireless network connectivity, and boot times, and to enable
    smaller form factors. The
    Intel®Coretmi5
    vProtmprocessor and the
    Intel®Coretmi7
    vProtmprocessor are designed to provide business notebook PCs with
    increased security, manageability, upgradeability, and
    energy-efficient performance.



Our new product offerings in 2009
    and early 2010 include:

•Intel Core i7 mobile processors,
    Intel Core i5 mobile processors, and Intel Core i3 mobile
    processors, the latest of which are manufactured using our 32nm
    process technology and include integrated high-definition
    graphics functionality. These processors are supported by the
    new Mobile Intel 5 Series Express Chipset family.•Intel®Centrino®Wireless adapters, designed to offer high-speed and reliable
    connectivity, and consistent coverage, while consuming minimal
    power.•An Intel Atom processor with
    integrated graphics functionality designed to enable improved
    performance and smaller, more energy-efficient netbooks. This
    processor is supported by the new, low-power Intel NM10 Express
    Chipset.•The Intel Core i7 processor
    Extreme Edition, based on our latest generation Intel Core
    microarchitecture, and designed for demanding applications such
    as high-performance gaming, high-definition content creation,
    and video encoding and editing.•Ultra-low-voltage processors and a
    chipset designed for ultra-thin laptop computers.



Desktops



Our current desktop microprocessor
    offerings include the:

•     Intel®Coretmi7 processor Extreme Edition•     Intel®Coretm2

Quad processor•     Intel®Coretmi7 processor•     Intel®Coretm2

Duo processor•     Intel®Coretmi5 processor•     Intel®Pentium®processor•     Intel®Coretmi3 processor•     Intel®Celeron®processor•     Intel®Coretm2

Extreme processor•     Intel®Atomtmprocessor





We offer desktop microprocessors
    at a variety of price/performance points, from the high-end
    Intel Core i7 processor Extreme Edition—a quad-core
    processor based on our latest generation Intel Core
    microarchitecture, designed for processor-intensive tasks in
    demanding multitasking environments—to the Intel Celeron
    processor, designed to provide value, quality, and reliability
    for basic computing needs. In addition, we offer the Intel Atom
    processor, designed for low-power and affordable
    Internet-focused devices. The related chipsets for our desktop
    microprocessor offerings primarily include
    Intel®5 Series Express Chipsets,
    Intel®4 Series Express Chipsets,
    Intel®3 Series Express Chipsets, and the
    Intel®NM10 Express Chipset.



We also offer processor
    technologies based on our microprocessors, chipsets, and
    motherboard products that are optimized for the desktop market
    segment. For business desktop PCs, we offer the
    Intel®Coretm2

    Duo processor with
    vProtmtechnology, the
    Intel®Coretm2

    Quad processor with
    vProtmtechnology, the
    Intel®Coretmi5
    vProtmprocessor, and the
    Intel®Coretmi7
    vProtmprocessor, which are designed to provide manageability,
    upgradeability, energy-efficient performance, increased
    security, and lower cost of ownership.



Our new product offerings in 2009
    and early 2010 include:

•Intel Core i7 processors, Intel
    Core i5 processors, and Intel Core i3 processors, the latest of
    which are manufactured using our 32nm process technology and
    include integrated high-definition graphics functionality. These
    processors are supported by the new Intel 5 Series Express
    Chipset family.•An Intel Atom processor with
    integrated graphics functionality designed to enable improved
    performance and smaller, more energy-efficient entry-level
    desktops. This processor is supported by the new, low-power
    Intel NM10 Express Chipset.



Data
    Center Group



The Data Center Group (DCG) offers
    products that are incorporated into servers, storage,
    workstations, and other products that help make up the
    infrastructure for data center and cloud computing environments.
    DCG’s products include microprocessors and related
    chipsets, and motherboards and wired connectivity devices.





Our current server, workstation,
    and storage microprocessor offerings include the
    Intel®Xeon®processor and the
    Intel®Itanium®processor. Our Intel Xeon processor family of products supports
    a range of entry-level to high-end technical and commercial
    computing applications such as Internet Protocol data centers.
    Compared to our Intel Xeon processor family, our Intel Itanium
    processor family generally supports an even higher level of
    reliability and computing performance for data processing,
    handling high transaction volumes, and othercompute-intensiveapplications for enterprise-class servers, as well as
    supercomputing solutions. Servers, which usually have multiple
    microprocessors or cores working together, manage large amounts
    of data, direct data traffic, perform complex transactions, and
    control central functions in local and wide area networks and on
    the Internet. Workstations typically offer higher performance
    than standard desktop PCs and are used for applications such as
    engineering design, digital content creation, and
    high-performance computing. With the large growth in digital
    content, external storage systems, such as storage area network
    (SAN) and network-attached storage (NAS), require higher
    bandwidth and improved processing performance.



Our new product offerings in 2009
    and early 2010 include:

•Quad-core Intel Itanium processors
    with enhanced scalability and reliability features, designed for
    mission-critical computing.•Dual- and quad-core Intel Xeon
    processors based on our latest generation Intel Core
    microarchitecture, including multiplequad-coreIntel Xeon processors designed for use in entry-level servers
    for small businesses and educational settings.•Server motherboards that offer a
    higher degree of integrated components.



Other
    Intel Architecture Operating Segments



Embedded
    and Communications Group



The Embedded and Communications
    Group (ECG) offers highly scalable microprocessors, including
    Intel Atom processors, and chipsets for a growing number of
    embedded applications across numerous market segments, including
    industrial, medical, and in-vehicle infotainment. In addition,
    ECG offers network processors.



Our new product offerings in 2009
    and early 2010 include:

•Embedded Intel Core i7 processors,
    Intel Core i5 processors, and Intel Core i3 processors, all
    using our 32nm process technology and with integrated
    high-definition graphics functionality. These processors are
    supported by the new Mobile Intel 5 Series Express Chipset
    family.•Low-power Intel Xeon processors
    based on our latest generation Intel Core microarchitecture,
    designed for use in thermally constrained environments common to
    communications infrastructure products such as wireline phones
    and fax machines.•Intel Atom processors designed for
    in-vehicle infotainment systems, media phones, and other
    industrial applications.



Ultra-Mobility
    Group



The Ultra-Mobility Group offers
    energy-efficient Intel Atom processors and related chipsets
    designed for mobile Internet devices (MIDs) within the handheld
    market segment.



Digital
    Home Group



The Digital Home Group offers
    products for use in consumer electronics devices designed to
    access and share Internet, broadcast, optical media (CD, DVD, or
    Blu-ray), and personal content through a variety of linked
    digital devices within the home. In addition, we offer
    components for consumer electronics devices such as digital TVs,
    high-definition media players, and set-top boxes, which receive,
    decode, and convert incoming data signals. In 2009, we
    introduced the
    Intel®Atomtmprocessor CE4100, a SoC media processor designed to bring
    Internet content and services to digital televisions, DVD
    players, and advanced set-top boxes.





Other
    Operating Segments



NAND
    Solutions Group



The NAND Solutions Group offers
    NAND flash memory products primarily used in portable memory
    storage devices, digital camera memory cards, solid-state
    drives, and other devices. Our solid-state drives, available in
    densities ranging from 2 gigabytes (GB) to 160 GB, weigh less
    than standard hard disk drives and are designed to enable faster
    boot times, lower power consumption, increased reliability, and
    improved performance. Our NAND flash memory products are
    manufactured by IM Flash Technologies, LLC (IMFT). See
    “Note 11:Non-MarketableEquity Investments” in Part II, Item 8 of this Form10-K.In
    2009, we introduced 80-GB and 160-GB solid-state drives based on
    34nm NAND flash technology, designed for laptop and desktop
    computers.



Wind
    River Software Group



The Wind River Software Group
    develops and licenses device software optimization products,
    including operating systems, for the needs of customers in the
    embedded and handheld market segments.



Manufacturing
    and Assembly and Test



As of December 26, 2009, 64% of
    our wafer fabrication, including microprocessors and chipsets,
    was conducted within the U.S. at our facilities in Arizona,
    Oregon, New Mexico, and Massachusetts. The remaining 36% of our
    wafer fabrication was conducted outside the U.S. at our
    facilities in Ireland and Israel.



As of December 26, 2009, we
    primarily manufactured our products in wafer fabrication
    facilities at the following locations:



ProductsWafer SizeProcess TechnologyLocationsMicroprocessors300mm32nmOregonMicroprocessors300mm45nmIsrael, New Mexico, ArizonaChipsets and microprocessors300mm65nmArizona, IrelandChipsets and other products300mm90nmIrelandChipsets and other products200mm130nm and aboveMassachusetts, Oregon, Ireland





In addition to our current
    facilities, we are building a 300mm wafer fabrication facility
    in China that is expected to begin production on chipsets using
    our 65nm process technology in late 2010 or early 2011.



As of December 26, 2009, the
    substantial majority of our microprocessors were manufactured on
    300mm wafers using our 45nm process technology. In the second
    half of 2009, we began manufacturing microprocessors using our
    32nm process technology. As we move to each succeeding
    generation of manufacturing process technology, we incur
    significantstart-upcosts to prepare each factory for manufacturing. However,
    continuing to advance our process technology provides benefits
    that we believe justify these costs. The benefits of moving to
    each succeeding generation of manufacturing process technology
    can include using less space per transistor, reducing heat
    output from each transistor,and/orincreasing the number of integrated features on each chip. These
    advancements can result in microprocessors that are higher
    performing, consume less power,and/orcost
    less to manufacture.



We use third-party manufacturing
    companies (foundries) to manufacture wafers for certain
    components, including networking and communications products. In
    addition, we primarily use subcontractors to manufacture
    board-level products and systems, and purchase certain
    communications networking products from external vendors in the
    Asia-Pacific region.



Our NAND flash memory products are
    manufactured by IMFT, a NAND flash memory manufacturing company
    that we formed with Micron Technology, Inc. Our NAND flash
    memory products are manufactured by IMFT using 34nm or 50nm
    process technology, and we expect to offer NAND flash memory
    products using 25nm process technology during the second quarter
    of 2010. We purchase 49% of the manufactured output of IMFT as
    of December 26, 2009. Assembly and test of NAND flash memory
    products is performed by Micron and other external
    subcontractors. See “Note 11: Non-Marketable Equity
    Investments” in Part II, Item 8 of this Form10-K.



During 2008, we completed the
    divestiture of our NOR flash memory business in exchange for an
    ownership interest in Numonyx B.V. We are leasing a wafer
    fabrication facility located in Israel to Numonyx. That facility
    is not shown in our above listing of wafer fabrication
    facilities.





Following the manufacturing
    process, the majority of our components are subject to assembly
    and test. We perform our components assembly and test at
    facilities in Malaysia, China, and Costa Rica. We are building a
    new assembly and test facility in Vietnam that is expected to
    begin production in the second half of 2010. To augment
    capacity, we use subcontractors to perform assembly of certain
    products, primarily chipsets and networking and communications
    products.



Our employment practices are
    consistent with, and we expect our suppliers and subcontractors
    to abide by, local country law. In addition, we impose a minimum
    employee age requirement as well as progressive EHS
    requirements, regardless of local law.



We have thousands of suppliers,
    including subcontractors, providing our various materials and
    service needs. We set expectations for supplier performance and
    reinforce those expectations with periodic assessments. We
    communicate those expectations to our suppliers regularly and
    work with them to implement improvements when necessary. We
    seek, where possible, to have several sources of supply for all
    of these materials and resources, but we may rely on a single or
    limited number of suppliers, or upon suppliers in a single
    country. In those cases, we develop and implement plans and
    actions to reduce the exposure that would result from a
    disruption in supply. We have entered into long-term contracts
    with certain suppliers to ensure a portion of our silicon supply.



Our products are typically
    produced at multiple Intel facilities at various sites around
    the world, or by subcontractors who have multiple facilities.
    However, some products are produced in only one Intel or
    subcontractor facility, and we seek to implement actions and
    plans to reduce the exposure that would result from a disruption
    at any such facility. See “Risk Factors” in Part I,
    Item 1A of this Form10-K.



Research
    and Development



We are committed to investing in
    world-class technology development, particularly in the design
    and manufacture of integrated circuits. Research and development
    (R&D) expenditures in 2009 were $5.7 billion ($5.7 billion
    in 2008 and $5.8 billion in 2007).



Our R&D activities are
    directed toward developing the technology innovations that we
    believe will deliver our next generation of products and
    platforms, which will in turn enable new form factors and new
    usage models for businesses and consumers. Our R&D
    activities range from designing and developing products, to
    developing and refining manufacturing processes, to researching
    future technologies and products.



We are focusing our R&D
    efforts on advanced computing technologies, developing new
    microarchitectures, advancing our silicon manufacturing process
    technology, delivering the next generation of microprocessors
    and chipsets, improving our platform initiatives, and developing
    software solutions and tools to support our technologies. Our
    R&D efforts enable new levels of performance and address
    areas such as energy efficiency, scalability for multi-core
    architectures, system manageability and security, and ease of
    use. We continue to make significant R&D investments in the
    development of SoCs to enable growth in areas such as handhelds
    (including MIDs and smartphones), embedded applications, and
    consumer electronics. In addition, we continue to make
    significant investments in graphics and wireless technologies.



As part of our R&D efforts,
    we plan to introduce a new microarchitecture for our notebook,
    desktop, and Intel Xeon processors approximately every two years
    and ramp the next generation of silicon process technology in
    the intervening years. We refer to this as our
    “tick-tock” technology development cadence. In 2009,
    we started manufacturing microprocessors using our new 32nm
    second-generation Hi-k metal gate silicon process technology,
    and we expect to introduce a new microarchitecture using our
    32nm process technology in 2010. We are currently developing
    22nm process technology, our next-generation process technology,
    and expect to begin manufacturing products using that technology
    in 2011. Our leadership in silicon technology has enabled us to
    make “Moore’s Law” a reality. Moore’s Law
    predicted that transistor density on integrated circuits would
    double about every two years. Our leadership in silicon
    technology has also helped expand on the advances anticipated by
    Moore’s Law by bringing new capabilities into silicon and
    producing new products and platforms optimized for a wider
    variety of applications.



Our R&D model is based on a
    global organization that emphasizes a collaborative approach to
    identifying and developing new technologies, leading standards
    initiatives, and influencing regulatory policies to accelerate
    the adoption of new technologies. Our R&D initiatives are
    performed by various business groups within the company, and we
    centrally manage key cross-business group product initiatives to
    align and prioritize our R&D activities across these
    groups. In addition, we may augment our R&D initiatives by
    investing in companies or entering into agreements with
    companies that have similar R&D focus areas. For example,
    we have an agreement with Micron for joint development of NAND
    flash memory technologies.





Employees



As of December 26, 2009, we had
    79,800 employees worldwide, with 55% of those employees located
    in the U.S.



Sales and
    Marketing



Customers



We sell our products primarily to
    original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and original design
    manufacturers (ODMs). ODMs provide designand/ormanufacturing services to branded and unbranded private-label
    resellers. In addition, we sell our products to other
    manufacturers, including makers of a wide range of industrial
    and communications equipment. Our customers also include PC and
    network communications products users who buy PC components and
    our other products through distributor, reseller, retail, and
    OEM channels throughout the world. In certain instances, we have
    entered into supply agreements to continue to manufacture and
    sell products of divested business lines to acquiring companies
    during certain transition periods.



Our worldwide reseller sales
    channel consists of thousands of indirect customers, systems
    builders that purchase Intel microprocessors and other products
    from our distributors. We have a boxed processor program that
    allows distributors to sell Intel microprocessors in small
    quantities to these systems-builder customers; boxed processors
    are also available in direct retail outlets.



In 2009, Hewlett-Packard Company
    accounted for 21% of our net revenue (20% in 2008 and 17% in
    2007) and Dell Inc. accounted for 17% of our net revenue (18% in
    2008 and 2007). No other customer accounted for more than 10% of
    our net revenue. For information about revenue and operating
    income by operating segment, and revenue from unaffiliated
    customers by geographic region/country, see “Results of
    Operations” in Part II, Item 7 and “Note 29: Operating
    Segment and Geographic Information” in Part II, Item 8 of
    this Form10-K.



Sales
    Arrangements



Our products are sold or licensed
    through sales offices throughout the world. Sales of our
    products are typically made via purchase orders that contain
    standard terms and conditions covering matters such as pricing,
    payment terms, and warranties, as well as indemnities for issues
    specific to our products, such as patent and copyright
    indemnities. From time to time, we may enter into additional
    agreements with customers covering, for example, changes from
    our standard terms and conditions, new product development and
    marketing, private-label branding, and other matters. Most of
    our sales are made using electronic and web-based processes that
    allow the customer to review inventory availability and track
    the progress of specific goods ordered. Pricing on particular
    products may vary based on volumes ordered and other factors. We
    also offer discounts, rebates, and other incentives to customers
    to increase acceptance of our products and technology.



Our products are typically shipped
    under terms that transfer title to the customer, even in
    arrangements for which the recognition of revenue and related
    costs of sales is deferred. Our standard terms and conditions of
    sale typically provide that payment is due at a later date,
    generally 30 days after shipment or delivery. Our credit
    department sets accounts receivable and shipping limits for
    individual customers to control credit risk to Intel arising
    from outstanding account balances. We assess credit risk through
    quantitative and qualitative analysis, and from this analysis,
    we establish credit limits and determine whether we will seek to
    use one or more credit support devices, such as obtaining some
    form of third-party guaranty or standby letter of credit, or
    obtaining credit insurance for all or a portion of the account
    balance if necessary. Credit losses may still be incurred due to
    bankruptcy, fraud, or other failure of the customer to pay. For
    information about our allowance for doubtful receivables, see
    “Schedule II—Valuation and Qualifying Accounts”
    in Part IV of this Form10-K.



Most of our sales to distributors
    are made under agreements allowing for price protection on
    unsold merchandise and a right of return on stipulated
    quantities of unsold merchandise. Under the price protection
    program, we give distributors credits for the difference between
    the original price paid and the current price that we offer. On
    most products, there is no contractual limit on the amount of
    price protection, nor is there a limit on the time horizon under
    which price protection is granted. The right of return granted
    generally consists of a stock rotation program in which
    distributors are able to exchange certain products based on the
    number of qualified purchases made by the distributor. Although
    we have the option to grant credit for, repair, or replace
    defective products, there is no contractual limit on the amount
    of credit granted to a distributor.





Distribution



Typically, distributors handle a
    wide variety of products, including those that compete with our
    products, and fill orders for many customers. We also utilize
    third-party sales representatives who generally do not offer
    directly competitive products but may carry complementary items
    manufactured by others. Sales representatives do not maintain a
    product inventory; instead, their customers place orders
    directly with us or through distributors. Several distribution
    warehouses are located in close proximity to key customers.



Backlog



We do not believe that backlog as
    of any particular date is meaningful, as our sales are made
    primarily pursuant to standard purchase orders for delivery of
    products. Only a small portion of our orders is non-cancelable,
    and the dollar amount associated with the non-cancelable portion
    is not significant.



Seasonal
    Trends



Our microprocessor sales generally
    have followed a seasonal trend. Historically, our sales have
    been higher in the second half of the year than in the first
    half of the year. Consumer purchases of PCs have historically
    been higher in the second half of the year, primarily due toback-to-schooland holiday demand. In addition, purchases from businesses have
    also historically tended to be higher in the second half of the
    year.



Marketing



Our corporate marketing objectives
    are to build a strong Intel corporate brand that connects with
    consumers, and have a limited number of meaningful and valuable
    brands in our portfolio to aid businesses and consumers in
    making informed choices and to make technology purchase
    decisions easier for them. The Intel Core processor family and
    the Intel Atom, Intel Pentium, Intel Celeron, Intel Xeon, and
    Intel Itanium trademarks make up our processor brands.



We promote brand awareness and
    generate demand through our own direct marketing as well as
    co-marketing programs. Our direct marketing activities include
    television, print, and web-based advertising, as well as press
    relations, consumer and trade events, and industry and consumer
    communications. We market to consumer and business audiences,
    and focus on building awareness and generating demand for
    increased performance, power efficiency, and new capabilities.



Purchases by customers often allow
    them to participate in cooperative advertising and marketing
    programs such as the Intel
    Inside®Program. This program broadens the reach of our brands beyond
    the scope of our own direct advertising. Through the Intel
    Inside Program, certain customers are licensed to place Intel
    logos on computers containing our microprocessors and processor
    technologies, and to use our brands in marketing activities. The
    program includes a market development component that accrues
    funds based on purchases and partially reimburses the OEMs for
    marketing activities for products featuring Intel brands,
    subject to the OEMs meeting defined criteria. These marketing
    activities primarily include television, print, and an increased
    focus on web-based marketing. We have also entered into joint
    marketing arrangements with certain customers.



Competition



The semiconductor industry is
    dynamic, characterized by rapid advances in technology and
    frequent product introductions. As unit volumes of a product
    grow, production experience is accumulated and costs typically
    decrease, further competition develops, and prices decline. The
    life cycle of our products is very short, sometimes less than a
    year. These short product life cycles and other factors lead to
    frequent negotiations with our OEM customers, which typically
    are large, sophisticated buyers who are also operating in very
    competitive environments. Our ability to compete depends on our
    ability to navigate this environment, by improving our products
    and processes faster than our competitors, anticipating changing
    customer requirements, developing and launching new products and
    platforms, pricing our products competitively, and reducing
    average unit costs. See “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item
    1A of this Form10-K.



Our products compete primarily
    based on performance, features, price, quality, reliability,
    brand recognition, and availability. We are focused on offering
    innovative products and worldwide support for our customers at
    competitive prices, including providing improved
    energy-efficient performance, enhanced security, manageability,
    and integrated solutions. We believe that our platform strategy
    provides us with a competitive advantage. We offer platforms
    that incorporate various components designed and configured to
    work together to provide an optimized user computing solution
    compared to components that are used separately.





We believe that our network of
    manufacturing facilities and assembly and test facilities gives
    us a competitive advantage. This network enables us to have more
    direct control over our processes, quality control, product
    cost, volume, timing of production, and other factors. These
    facilities require significant up-front capital spending and
    therefore make it difficult for us to reduce our costs in the
    short-term. Many of our competitors do not own such facilities
    because they may not be able to afford to do so or because their
    business models involve the use of third-party foundries and
    assembly and test subcontractors for manufacturing and assembly
    and test. The third-party foundries and subcontractors may also
    offer intellectual property, design services, and other goods
    and services to our competitors. These “fabless
    semiconductor companies” include Broadcom Corporation,
    NVIDIA Corporation, QUALCOMM Incorporated, and VIA Technologies,
    Inc. (VIA). Some of our competitors own portions of such
    facilities through investment or joint-venture arrangements with
    other companies.



We plan to continue to cultivate
    new businesses and work with the computing and communications
    industries through standards bodies, trade associations, OEMs,
    ODMs, and independent software and operating system vendors to
    help align the industry to offer products that take advantage of
    the latest market trends and usage models. We frequently
    participate in industry initiatives designed to discuss and
    agree upon technical specifications and other aspects of
    technologies that could be adopted as standards by
    standards-setting organizations. Our competitors may also
    participate in the same initiatives and specification
    development. Our participation does not ensure that any
    standards or specifications adopted by these organizations will
    be consistent with our product planning.



Microprocessors



We continue to be largely
    dependent on the success of our microprocessor business. Our
    ability to compete depends on our ability to deliver new
    microprocessor products with increased performance capabilities
    and improved energy-efficient performance at competitive prices.
    Some of our microprocessor competitors, such as Advanced Micro
    Devices, Inc. (AMD), market software-compatible products that
    compete with our processors. We also face competition from
    companies offering rival architecture designs, such as Cell
    Broadband Engine Architecture developed jointly by International
    Business Machines Corporation (IBM), Sony Corporation, and
    Toshiba Corporation; Power Architecture* offered by IBM; ARM*
    architecture developed by ARM Limited; and Scalable Processor
    Architecture (SPARC*) offered by Sun Microsystems, Inc. (a
    subsidiary of Oracle Corporation). In addition, NVIDIA is
    seeking to position its graphics processors to compete with
    microprocessors, by shifting some of a microprocessor’s
    workload to its graphics processor.



While AMD has been our primary
    competitor in the market segments for microprocessors used in
    notebooks, desktops, and servers, QUALCOMM and other companies
    using ARM-based designs are our primary competitors in the
    growing market segment for microprocessors used in handhelds,
    including smartphones and MIDs. Our ability to compete with
    QUALCOMM and other competitors in this market segment depends on
    our ability to design and produce high-performance,
    energy-efficient microprocessors at competitive prices. It also
    requires us to develop a software ecosystem that appeals to end
    users and software developers. We have taken a number of steps
    to build this software ecosystem, including developing the
    Moblintm-based

    operating system and subsequently combining it with Nokia
    Corporation’s Maemo* software platform to create MeeGo*, a
    Linux-based software platform that will run on multiple hardware
    platforms; acquiring Wind River Systems, Inc.; and creating the
    Intel®AtomtmDeveloper Program. In addition, in 2009 we entered into product
    development collaborations with LG Electronics, Inc. and Nokia.



The following is a list of our
    main microprocessor competitors by market segment:

•Notebook: AMD and VIA•Netbook: AMD, NVIDIA, QUALCOMM,
    and VIA•Desktop: AMD and VIA•Server/Workstation: AMD, IBM, and
    Sun Microsystems•Embedded: AMD, Freescale
    Semiconductor, Inc., and Texas Instruments Incorporated•Handheld: QUALCOMM



Chipsets



Our chipsets compete with chipsets
    produced by companies such as AMD (including chipsets marketed
    under the ATI Technologies, Inc. brand), Broadcom, NVIDIA,
    Silicon Integrated Systems Corporation, and VIA. We also compete
    with companies offering graphics components and other
    special-purpose products used in the notebook, netbook, desktop,
    and server market segments. One aspect of our business model is
    to incorporate improved performance and advanced properties into
    our microprocessors and chipsets, for which demand may
    increasingly be affected by competition from companies whose
    business models are based on dedicated chipsets and other
    components, such as graphics controllers.





Flash
    Memory



Our NAND flash memory products
    currently compete with NAND products primarily manufactured by
    Hynix Semiconductor Inc., Micron, Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.,
    SanDisk Corporation, and Toshiba.



Connectivity



We offer products designed for
    wireless and wired connectivity; the communications
    infrastructure, including network processors; and networked
    storage. Our WiFi and WiMAX products currently compete with
    products manufactured by Atheros Communications, Inc., Broadcom,
    QUALCOMM, and other smaller companies.



Competition
    Lawsuits and Government Matters



We are currently a party to a
    variety of lawsuits and government matters involving our
    competitive practices. See “Note 28: Contingencies” in
    Part II, Item 8 of this Form10-K.



Acquisitions
    and Strategic Investments



During 2009, we completed the
    acquisition of Wind River Systems, Inc., a vendor of software
    for embedded devices. The objective of the acquisition of Wind
    River Systems was to enable the introduction of products for the
    embedded and handheld market segments, resulting in benefits for
    our existing operations. See “Note 15: Acquisitions”
    in Part II, Item 8 of this Form10-K.



Intellectual
    Property and Licensing



Intellectual property rights that
    apply to our various products and services include patents,
    copyrights, trade secrets, trademarks, and maskwork rights. We
    maintain a program to protect our investment in technology by
    attempting to ensure respect for our intellectual property
    rights. The extent of the legal protection given to different
    types of intellectual property rights varies under different
    countries’ legal systems. We intend to license our
    intellectual property rights where we can obtain adequate
    consideration. See “Competition” earlier in this
    section, “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A, and
    “Note 28: Contingencies” in Part II, Item 8 of this
    Form10-K.



We have filed and obtained a
    number of patents in the U.S. and other countries. While our
    patents are an important element of our success, our business as
    a whole is not significantly dependent on any one patent. We and
    other companies in the computing, telecommunications, and
    related high-technology fields typically apply for and receive,
    in the aggregate, tens of thousands of overlapping patents
    annually in the U.S. and other countries. We believe that the
    duration of the applicable patents that we are granted is
    adequate relative to the expected lives of our products. Because
    of the fast pace of innovation and product development, our
    products are often obsolete before the patents related to them
    expire, and sometimes are obsolete before the patents related to
    them are even granted. As we expand our product offerings into
    new industries, we also seek to extend our patent development
    efforts to patent such product offerings. Established
    competitors in existing and new industries, as well as companies
    that purchase and enforce patents and other intellectual
    property, may already have patents covering similar products.
    There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain patents
    covering our own products, or that we will be able to obtain
    licenses from such companies on favorable terms or at all.



The majority of the software that
    we distribute, including software embedded in our component- and
    system-level products, is entitled to copyright protection. To
    distinguish Intel products from our competitors’ products,
    we have obtained certain trademarks and trade names for our
    products, and we maintain cooperative advertising programs with
    certain customers to promote our brands and to identify products
    containing genuine Intel components. We also protect certain
    details about our processes, products, and strategies as trade
    secrets, keeping confidential the information that we believe
    provides us with a competitive advantage. We have ongoing
    programs designed to maintain the confidentiality of such
    information.



Compliance
    with Environmental, Health, and Safety Regulations



Our compliance efforts focus on
    monitoring regulatory and resource trends and setting
    company-wide performance targets for key resources and
    emissions. These targets address several parameters, including
    product design; chemical, energy, and water use; climate change;
    waste recycling; and emissions.





Intel focuses on reducing natural
    resource use, the solid and chemical waste by-products of our
    manufacturing processes, and the environmental impact of our
    products. We currently use a variety of materials in our
    manufacturing process that have the potential to adversely
    impact the environment and are subject to a variety of EHS laws
    and regulations. For example, lead and halogenated materials
    (such as certain flame retardants and plastics) have been used
    by the electronics industry for decades. Finding suitable
    replacements has been a technical challenge for the industry,
    and we have worked for years with our suppliers and others in
    the industry to develop lead-free and halogen-free solutions.



We work with the U.S.
    Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), non-governmental
    organizations, OEMs, and retailers to help managee-waste(which includes electronic products nearing the end of their
    useful lives) and promote recycling. The European Union (EU)
    requires producers of certain electrical and electronic
    equipment to develop programs that allow consumers to return
    products for recycling. Many states in the U.S. have similare-wastetake-back laws. The inconsistency of manye-wastetake-back laws and the lack of locale-wastemanagement options in many areas pose a challenge for our
    compliance efforts. To mitigate these problems, we communicate
    with our distributors to determine available options for
    complying withe-wastelaws.



10-K.



We maintain business recovery
    plans that are intended to ensure our ability to recover from
    natural disasters or other events that can be disruptive to our
    business. Many of our operations are located in semi-arid
    regions, such as Israel and the southwestern U.S. Some climate
    change scenarios predict that such regions can become even more
    vulnerable to prolonged droughts. We have had an aggressive
    water conservation program in place for many years. We believe
    that our water conservation and recovery programs will help
    reduce our risk if water availability becomes more constrained
    in the future. We further maintain long-range plans to identify
    potential future water conservation actions that we can take.



We are committed to sustainability
    and take a leadership position in promoting voluntary
    environmental initiatives and working proactively with
    governments, environmental groups, and industry to promote
    global environmental sustainability. We believe that technology
    will be fundamental to finding solutions to the world’s
    environmental challenges, and we are joining forces with
    industry, business, and governments to find and promote ways
    that technology can be used as a tool to combat climate change.



For several years, we have been
    evaluating “green” design standards and incorporating
    green building concepts and practices into the construction of
    our buildings. We are in the process of obtaining Leadership in
    Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) certification for an
    office building under construction in Israel and a newly
    constructed fabrication building in Arizona. We have been
    purchasing wind power and other forms of renewable energy at
    some of our major sites for several years. At the beginning of
    2008, we announced plans to purchase renewable energy
    certificates under a multi-year contract. The purchase placed
    Intel at the top of the EPA’s Green Power Partnership for
    2008 and 2009. The purchase was intended to help stimulate the
    market for green power, leading to additional generating
    capacity and, ultimately, lower costs.





Executive
    Officers of the Registrant



The following sets forth certain
    information with regard to our executive officers as of February
    22, 2010 (ages are as of December 26, 2009):







Robert J. Baker, age 54

•   2001 – present,Senior VP, General Manager (GM), Technology and Manufacturing
    Group

•   Joined Intel 1979



Andy D. Bryant, age 59

•   2009 – present,Executive VP, Technology,  Manufacturing, and Enterprise
    Services,  Chief Administrative Officer

•   2007 – 2009,Executive VP, Finance and Enterprise Services, Chief
    Administrative Officer

•   2001 – 2007,Executive VP, Chief Financial and Enterprise Services Officer

•   Member of Columbia Sportswear Company
    Board of Directors

•   Member of McKesson Corporation Board of
    Directors

•   Joined Intel 1981



William M. Holt, age 57

•   2006 – present,Senior VP, GM, Technology and  Manufacturing Group

•   2005 – 2006,VP, Co-GM, Technology and Manufacturing Group

•   1999 – 2005,VP, Director, Logic Technology Development

•   Joined Intel 1974



Thomas M. Kilroy, age 52

•   2010 – present,Senior VP, GM, Sales and Marketing Group

•   2009 – 2010,VP, GM, Sales and Marketing Group

•   2005 – 2009,VP, GM, Digital Enterprise Group

•   2003 – 2005,VP, Sales and Marketing Group,Co-President of Intel Americas

•   Joined Intel 1990



Sean M. Maloney, age 53

•   2009 – present,Executive VP, GM, Intel Architecture Group

•   2008 – 2009,Executive VP, Chief Sales and Marketing Officer

•   2006 – 2008,Executive VP, GM, Sales and Marketing Group, Chief Sales and
    Marketing Officer

•   2005 – 2006,Executive VP, GM, Mobility Group

•   2001 – 2005,Executive VP, GM, Intel Communications Group

•   Member of Autodesk, Inc. Board of
    Directors

•   Member of Clearwire Corporation Board of
    Directors

•   Joined Intel 1982



















