
10-K405



                                  FORM 10-K

                                UNITED STATES
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            Washington, D.C. 20549
(Mark One)

  |X|           ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                    OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934


                    For fiscal year ended December 31, 1997

                                      OR

  |_|         TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                    OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

        For the transition period from               to

                        Commission File Number:  1-8610

                           SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC.

             Incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware
               I.R.S. Employer Identification Number 43-1301883

                 175 E. Houston, San Antonio, Texas 78205-2233
                         Telephone Number 210-821-4105


Securities  registered  pursuant  to  Section  12(b) of the Act:  (See  attached
Schedule A)

      Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None.

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding 12 months (or for such  shorter  period that the  registrant  was
required  to file  such  reports),  and  (2) has  been  subject  to such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes X No _____

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation  S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,  to the
best of registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. ( X )

Based on  composite  closing  sales price on February 27,  1998,  the  aggregate
market value of all voting stock held by non-affiliates was $69,458,800,000.

As of February 27, 1998, 919,465,202 shares of Common Stock were outstanding.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

(1) Portions of SBC  Communications  Inc.'s Annual Report to Shareowners for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 1997 (Parts I and II).

(2)  Portions of SBC  Communications  Inc.'s  Notice of 1998 Annual  Meeting and
Proxy Statement dated March 11, 1998 (Parts III and IV).





                                  SCHEDULE A

          Securities Registered Pursuant To Section 12(b) Of The Act:


                                                        Name of each exchange
        Title of each class                              on which registered

Common Shares (Par Value $1.00 Per                    New York, Chicago and
Share)                                                Pacific Stock Exchanges

7 3/4 % Exchangeable Notes,                           New York Stock Exchange
 Due March 15, 2001

7.56% Pacific Telesis Group (PAC)                     New York Stock Exchange
Corporation-obligated mandatorily
redeemable preferred securities of
subsidiary trusts

8.5% PAC Corporation-obligated                        New York Stock Exchange
mandatorily redeemable preferred
securities of subsidiary trusts










                               



Item                                                                  Page
- -----                                                                  ----
                                  PART I

 1.  Business.......................................................     4
 2.  Properties.....................................................    15
 3.  Legal Proceedings..............................................    15
 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders............    15


  Executive Officers of the Registrant..............................    16


                                    PART II

 5.  Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related
       Stockholder Matters..........................................    17
 6.  Selected Financial and Operating Data..........................    17
 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
       and Results of Operations....................................    17
 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.....    17
 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data....................    20
 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting
       and Financial Disclosure.....................................    20


                                   PART III

10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.............    21
11.  Executive Compensation.........................................    21
12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.    21
13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.................    21


                                    PART IV

 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K   22











                                    PART I
ITEM 1. BUSINESS

GENERAL

SBC  Communications  Inc.  (SBC) is a holding  company  whose  subsidiaries  and
affiliates operate predominantly in the communications services industry.  SBC's
subsidiaries  and affiliates  provide  landline and wireless  telecommunications
services and equipment,  directory advertising,  publishing and cable television
services.  SBC's largest  subsidiaries are Southwestern  Bell Telephone  Company
(SWBell),  providing  telecommunications  services over approximately 16 million
access  lines in Texas,  Missouri,  Oklahoma,  Kansas and  Arkansas  (five-state
area), and Pacific Bell (PacBell),  providing  telecommunications  services over
approximately  17  million  access  lines  in  California.   SBC  also  provides
telecommunications   services   through   its  Nevada   Bell   subsidiary   over
approximately 300 thousand access lines in Nevada.  (SWBell,  PacBell and Nevada
Bell are  collectively  referred to as the Telephone  Companies.)  The Telephone
Companies  operate  within an  authorized  region  (in-region)  providing  local
exchange  services  and are  subject to  regulation  by each state in which they
operate and by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). SBC was incorporated
under the laws of the State of Delaware in 1983 and has its principal  executive
offices at 175 E.  Houston,  San Antonio,  Texas  78205-2233  (telephone  number
210-821-4105).

 SBC was one of the original seven regional  holding  companies (RHCs) formed to
hold AT&T Corp.'s (AT&T) local telephone  companies.  AT&T divested SBC by means
of a spin-off of stock to its shareowners on January 1, 1984 (divestiture). As a
result, SBC became a publicly traded company.  The divestiture was made pursuant
to a consent  decree,  referred to as the  Modification of Final Judgment (MFJ),
issued  by the  United  States  District  Court  for the  District  of  Columbia
(District  Court).  With the mergers of SBC and Pacific Telesis Group (PAC), and
Bell Atlantic Corporation and NYNEX Corporation, there are now five RHCs.

COMPLETION OF MERGER WITH PAC

On April 1, 1997,  SBC and PAC  completed the merger of an SBC  subsidiary  with
PAC, in a transaction  in which each  outstanding  share of PAC common stock was
exchanged for 1.4629 shares of SBC common stock (equivalent to approximately 626
million shares;  both the exchange ratio and shares issued have been restated to
reflect the two-for-one  stock split,  effected in the form of a stock dividend,
declared  January 30,  1998 with a record date of February  20, 1998 and payable
March 19, 1998). With the merger,  PAC became a wholly-owned  subsidiary of SBC.
The  transaction  was  accounted  for as a pooling of  interests  and a tax-free
reorganization.

Post-merger initiatives

Several strategic  decisions resulted from the merger integration  process.  The
decisions resulted from an extensive review of operations  throughout the merged
company and include  significant  integration of operations and consolidation of
some administrative and support functions.

Reorganization

SBC is  centralizing  several key functions  that will support the operations of
the Telephone  Companies,  including network planning,  strategic  marketing and
procurement.  It is  also  consolidating  a  number  of  corporate-wide  support
activities,   including  research  and  development,   information   technology,
financial  transaction  processing  and real estate  management.  The  Telephone
Companies  will continue as separate  legal  entities.  These  initiatives  will
result in the  creation  of some jobs and the  elimination  and  realignment  of
others, with many of the affected employees changing job responsibilities and in
some cases assuming positions in other locations.

SBC recognized  charges during 1997 in connection  with these  initiatives.  The
charges were comprised mainly of postemployment  benefits,  primarily related to
severance,   and  costs  associated  with  closing  down  duplicate  operations,
primarily  contract  cancellations.  Other  charges  arising  out of the  merger
relating to relocation,  retraining and other effects of  consolidating  certain
operations  are being  recognized  in the periods  those  charges are  incurred.
Additional  information  on these charges is contained in Note 3 of the 1997 SBC
Annual Report to Shareowners,  and is incorporated  herein by reference pursuant
to General Instruction G(2).

MERGER WITH SOUTHERN NEW ENGLAND
TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION

On January 5, 1998, SBC and Southern New England Telecommunications  Corporation
(SNET) jointly announced a definitive  agreement to merge an SBC subsidiary with
SNET,  in a  transaction  in which  each  share  of SNET  common  stock  will be
exchanged for 1.7568 shares of SBC common stock (equivalent to approximately 120
million  shares;  both the  exchange  ratio and  shares  to be issued  have been
restated to reflect the two-for-one  stock split declared January 30, 1998). The
transaction  is intended to be accounted for as a pooling of interests and to be
a tax-free reorganization. Additional information on this matter is contained in
Note 4 of the 1997 SBC Annual Report to Shareowners,  and is incorporated herein
by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).

FEDERAL LEGISLATION AND THE MFJ

On February 8, 1996, the Federal Government enacted the  Telecommunications  Act
of 1996 (the Telecom Act), a major, wide-ranging amendment to the Communications
Act of 1934.

By its  specific  terms,  the Telecom Act  supersedes  the  jurisdiction  of the
District Court with regard to activities  occurring after the date of enactment.
The FCC is given  authority for all  post-enactment  conduct,  with the District
Court retaining jurisdiction of pre-enactment conduct for a five-year period. As
a result of these  provisions,  on April 11, 1996 the District  Court issued its
Opinion and Order  terminating  the MFJ and  dismissing  all pending  motions as
moot, thereby effectively ending 13 years of RHCs regulation under the MFJ.

In July 1997,  SBC  brought  suit in the U.S.  District  Court for the  Northern
District  of Texas (U.S.  Court),  seeking a  declaration  that a portion of the
Telecom Act is unconstitutional on the grounds that it improperly  discriminates
against the Telephone  Companies by name by imposing  restrictions that prohibit
SBC from offering  interLATA  (Local Access  Transport Area)  long-distance  and
other services  in-region that other Local Exchange  Carriers (LECs) are free to
provide.  The suit challenged only that portion of the Telecom Act that excluded
SBC from competing in certain lines of business.  On December 31, 1997 the Court
issued a ruling declaring unconstitutional, among other things, the prohibitions
on SBC  providing  interLATA  long-distance  in-region.  The FCC and  competitor
intervenors  sought and  received a stay of the  decision by the Court,  and SBC
anticipates  further  opposition to this ruling from the Justice  Department and
interexchange  carriers,  but is unable to predict  the  outcome  of  subsequent
appeals.  Additional information relating to the Telecom Act is contained in the
1997  SBC  Annual  Report  to   Shareowners   under  the  heading   "Competitive
Environment"  beginning  on page 25,  and is  incorporated  herein by  reference
pursuant to General Instruction G(2).






BUSINESS OPERATIONS

SBC is among the largest telecommunications companies in the United States, with
approximately  33 million access lines and  approximately  5.5 million  wireless
customers  in the  United  States.  SBC serves the  nation's  two most  populous
states,  California  and  Texas  as  well  as  7 of  the  country's  10  largest
metropolitan  areas, 16 of the country's 50 largest  metropolitan areas, and has
investments in telecommunications  businesses in selected international markets,
including Mexico,  France, South Africa, Chile, South Korea, The United Kingdom,
Switzerland,  Israel and  Taiwan.  SBC's broad  operations  offer  customers  an
expansive range of services and products,  varying by market,  including:  local
exchange services,  wireless communications,  long-distance,  Internet services,
telecommunications  equipment,  enhanced  services,  and directory  advertising.
Services and products are provided through several subsidiaries,  which include:
the Telephone  Companies,  Southwestern Bell Mobile Systems,  Inc. including its
affiliates   (Mobile  Systems),   Pacific  Bell  Mobile  Services  (PBMS),   SBC
International,  Inc. (SBC  International),  Southwestern Bell Yellow Pages, Inc.
(SWBYP),  Pacific Bell Directory (PBD),  Southwestern  Bell Messaging  Services,
Inc.  (SMSI),  Pacific Bell Information  Services (PBIS),  Pacific Bell Internet
(PBI),  Southwestern Bell Internet Services (SBIS), and SBC Media Ventures, Inc.
(Media  Ventures).  These services and products  (which are described more fully
below)  include  landline and  wireless  telecommunications  services,  sales of
advertising  for and  publication  of yellow pages and white pages  directories,
sales of  customer  premises,  private  business  exchange  (PBX)  and  wireless
equipment,  enhanced services, Internet services, and cable television services.
Wireless  telecommunications  services are  provided by Mobile  Systems and PBMS
(collectively SBC Wireless).  Landline  telecommunications services are provided
to  the  in-region  states  by  the  Telephone  Companies.   In  December  1996,
substantially  all of the operations of  Southwestern  Bell  Telecommunications,
Inc.  (Telecom) moved into the operations of SWBell with enhanced services being
moved into SMSI.

SBC's revenues are categorized for financial reporting purposes as local service
(substantially  all of which was  provided by the  Telephone  Companies  and SBC
Wireless),  network access (provided by the Telephone Companies),  long-distance
service  (substantially all of which was provided by the Telephone Companies and
SBC Wireless), directory advertising (principally provided by SWBYP and PBD) and
other  (including  equipment  sales at SBC  Wireless  and  SWBell,  nonregulated
products  and  services  provided  by  the  Telephone  Companies,   billing  and
collection  services  for  interexchange  carriers  provided  by  the  Telephone
Companies,  Internet  services  provided by PBI and SBIS,  and cable  television
services  provided by Media Ventures).  With the passage of the Telecom Act, SBC
Wireless offers  interLATA and intraLATA  wireless  long-distance  services.  In
1996, two SBC subsidiaries,  Southwestern  Bell  Communications  Services,  Inc.
(SBCS) and  Pacific  Bell  Communications,  began  offering  landline  interLATA
long-distance  services to customers  in selected  areas  outside the  Telephone
Companies'  authorized  regions  (out-region).  The Telephone  Companies provide
intraLATA long-distance services in-region.

The  following  table  sets  forth  for SBC the  percentage  of total  operating
revenues  by any  class  of  service  which  accounted  for 10% or more of total
operating revenues in any of the last three fiscal years.

- ----------------------------------------------- -------------------------------
                                                     Percentage of Total
                                                      Operating Revenues
- ----------------------------------------------- -------------------------------

                                                     1997      1996       1995
- ----------------------------------------------- ---------- --------- ----------
Local service:
     Landline                                         38%       36%        37%
     Wireless                                         12%       11%        10%
Network access                                        23%       24%        25%
- ----------------------------------------------- ---------- --------- ----------






      Communication Services

Communication services include local, long-distance and network access services.
Local services involve the transport of landline and wireless telecommunications
traffic between  telephones and other customer premises  equipment (CPE) located
within the same local service calling area. Local services include:  basic local
exchange service, certain extended area service, dedicated private line services
for voice and  special  services,  directory  assistance  and  various  vertical
services,  including custom calling services, call control options and Caller ID
services.  Until the passage of the Telecom Act,  SBC's  long-distance  services
involved  the  transport  of intraLATA  telecommunications  traffic,  except for
certain  wireless service areas that cover more than one LATA, for which SBC had
obtained  MFJ waivers.  In addition to these  services,  beginning in 1996,  SBC
provided both  interLATA and intraLATA  cellular  long-distance  services to its
wireless  customers,  as well as landline  interLATA  long-distance  services in
selected  out-region areas.  Long-distance  services also include other services
such as Wide Area  Telecommunications  Service  (WATS or 800 services) and other
special  services.  Network access services connect a subscriber's  telephone or
other  equipment to the  transmission  facilities of other carriers that provide
long-distance (principally interLATA) and other communications services. Network
access services are either switched,  which use a switched  communications  path
between the carrier and the customer, or special, which use a direct nonswitched
path.

      Landline Network Services

During  the  latter  half of 1996 and over the  course  of 1997,  the  Telephone
Companies  have  been  offering  certain  services  on a  "wholesale"  basis  to
competitors,  as well as providing elements of the Telephone Companies' networks
on an "unbundled" basis for local competition.  These services are being offered
as  specified  by the  Telecom  Act  and  state  actions  and  agreements.  That
legislation  and the  regulations  promulgated by state and federal  agencies to
implement it have resulted in SBC facing  increased  competition  in significant
portions of its business.  At December 31, 1997 SBC provided  wholesale services
to  approximately  500 thousand  access lines.  Management  cannot  quantify the
impact to SBC's business in 1998 from local exchange competition, as uncertainty
exists as to the breadth and scope of  competitors'  offering of local  exchange
services to all portions of the market  in-region,  and as certain  regulations,
tariffs and negotiations governing such competition are not yet finalized.

The Telephone Companies are SBC's largest subsidiaries,  providing approximately
82% of SBC's operating  revenues in 1997. The Telephone  Companies provide their
services to  approximately  20.9 million  residential and 12.1 million  business
access lines in the seven states in which they operate. During 1997 total access
lines grew by 5%, of which 50% of the increase  was due to growth in  California
and over 30% of the increase was due to growth in Texas.

During 1997,  the  Telephone  Companies  continued  to expand their  offering of
vertical  services  throughout  their operating areas.  These services  include,
among other things Caller ID, a feature which  displays the telephone  number of
the person  calling and the caller's  name in certain  markets;  Call Return,  a
feature that redials the number of the last incoming call;  and Call Blocker,  a
feature which allows customers to  automatically  reject calls from a designated
list of telephone numbers.

SMSI provides voice messaging services under the registered  trademark CallNotes
to residential and business  customers.  PBIS has several  registered  trademark
products,  which  include  residential  voice  messaging  services  (The Message
Center),  business  messaging  services  (Pacific Bell Voice Mail), and business
call management  services (Pacific Bell Call  Management).  During 1996, PBI and
SBIS began providing Internet services in selected in-region metropolitan areas.
Internet  access  services  were  introduced  throughout  many  other  in-region
metropolitan areas in 1997.

      Wireless

At the end of 1997,  Mobile  Systems  provided  wireless  services to  5,068,000
customers  over its  traditional  cellular  networks,  or 12.2 out of every  100
residents  in  its  service  areas.  Mobile  Systems  provides  services  in  39
metropolitan  markets in 10 states and the District of Columbia,  including 5 of
the nation's top 15 metropolitan areas, as follows:  Washington,  D.C.; Chicago,
Illinois;  Boston,  Massachusetts;  St. Louis,  Missouri; and Dallas-Fort Worth,
Texas.  Mobile Systems is licensed to provide  service in 40 rural service areas
(RSA) and is currently  providing  service in all of these markets.  Each RSA is
contiguous to an existing  metropolitan  service area or another RSA operated by
Mobile Systems,  which allows for the expansion of service in a way that may add
value to customers'  service.  Mobile  Systems also operates one RSA in Arkansas
under an interim operating authority granted by the FCC.

In January 1997,  Mobile Systems began doing business within the five-state area
as Southwestern Bell Wireless,  Inc. Mobile Systems operates in out-region areas
under the name of Cellular One by means of licenses from  Cellular One Group,  a
partnership  among  affiliates of Mobile  Systems,  AT&T  Wireless  Services and
Vanguard Cellular Systems,  Inc. These areas include metropolitan service areas,
such as Washington, D.C.; Chicago, Illinois; Albany, Buffalo, and Rochester, New
York  and  Boston,   Massachusetts;   and  rural   service  areas  in  Illinois,
Massachusetts,  New York,  Virginia and West Virginia.  Cellular One does or can
offer,  on a resale  basis,  landline  interLATA  long-distance  service  in all
out-region  markets where it provides local wireless  service.  In January 1997,
Cellular One also began offering  landline local service,  on a resale basis, in
Rochester, New York.

In October  1994,  SBC formed a  long-term  marketing  alliance  between  Mobile
Systems and GTE in Texas.  This alliance has enabled both Mobile Systems and GTE
to offer wireless service in each other's Texas wireless markets, using the host
company's wireless system. As a result, Mobile Systems provides wireless service
in Houston,  Austin and  Beaumont  and has the right,  under this  alliance,  to
market wireless service in a number of additional  markets including El Paso and
Galveston.

Mobile Systems now offers digital service,  including  advanced features in most
of the  metropolitan  areas  where it's  licensed to provide  wireless  service.
Mobile Systems first began  providing  commercial  digital service in Chicago in
July 1993. Digital service improves sound quality,  provides a greater degree of
privacy on individual calls,  increases  call-handling capacity of the networks,
allows additional service offerings, and reduces exposure to billing fraud.

Mobile  Systems also markets  wireless  communications  equipment in each of its
service areas.

In 1993,  the FCC adopted an order  allocating  radio spectrum and outlining the
development  of licenses for new personal  communications  services  (PCS).  PCS
utilizes wireless  telecommunications  digital  technology at a higher frequency
radio spectrum than cellular using lower powered  transmission  equipment.  Like
cellular,  it is  designed  to  permit  access to a  variety  of  communications
services regardless of subscriber location.  In an FCC auction,  which concluded
in March 1995, PCS licenses were awarded in 51 major markets.  SBC or affiliates
acquired  PCS  licenses in the Major  Trading  Areas  (MTAs) of Los  Angeles-San
Diego,  California;  San Francisco-San  Jose,  California;  Memphis,  Tennessee;
Little Rock,  Arkansas;  and Tulsa,  Oklahoma.  The  California  licenses  cover
substantially all of California and Nevada. SBC is currently  operational in all
of its major  California-Nevada  markets and Tulsa,  Oklahoma.  During 1996, SBC
received  several AT&T  cellular  networks in Arkansas in exchange for SBC's PCS
licenses  in  Memphis,   Tennessee   and  Little   Rock,   Arkansas   and  other
considerations.

PBMS was formed to offer PCS services across California and Nevada.  The network
incorporates the Global System for Mobile  Communications (GSM) standard,  which
is widely  used  internationally,  and its phones  feature a built-in  pager and
answering machine.  PBMS began trials in August 1996 and began offering services
in January 1997, and by mid-1997 provided  widespread  offerings of PCS services
to all of California  and Nevada.  At the end of 1997,  PBMS  provided  wireless
services to 340,000 customers over its PCS networks.

In an FCC  auction  concluded  in  January  1997,  SBC  acquired  the  following
additional  PCS  licenses  for Basic  Trading  Areas  (BTAs) that are within the
five-state area: Springfield,  Missouri; McAlester,  Oklahoma; Joplin, Missouri;
Pittsburgh,  Kansas;  Temple-Killeen,  Texas;  Waco,  Texas;  Tyler,  Texas  and
Longview-Marshall, Texas.

Overall,  at the end of 1997,  SBC Wireless  operations  provided local wireless
services to 5,493,000  customers  throughout its wireless markets.  In addition,
since  the  Telecom  Act  passed,   Mobile  Systems  began  providing   wireless
long-distance  service to its wireless customers,  and at year-end 1997 had been
selected as the long-distance carrier by approximately 3,286,000, or 63 percent,
of its wireless customers.

      International

            Mexico

A consortium  consisting  of SBC  International,  together  with a subsidiary of
France Telecom and a group of Mexican investors led by Grupo Carso, S.A. de C.V.
(Grupo Carso), has voting control of Telefonos de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. (Telmex),
Mexico's largest national  telecommunications  company, through its ownership of
all of Telmex's  Class AA shares.  The Mexican  investors have voting control of
the consortium.  During 1996,  Grupo Carso  transferred its Telmex interest to a
spin-off  company named Carso Global Telecom,  S.A. de C.V. This transaction had
no effect on SBC  International's  Telmex holdings.  SBC International also owns
Class L shares,  which have  limited  voting  rights.  Telmex  made  significant
purchases under various share repurchase programs from 1995 through 1997, buying
back 23% of its stock.  Throughout 1997 and in February 1998, SBC  International
sold  portions  of its  Class L shares  to Telmex  so that  SBC's  total  equity
investment  (including  both AA shares and L shares) was  slightly  below 10% of
Telmex's total equity  capitalization.  Telmex  provides  complete  landline and
wireless  telecommunications  services within Mexico. At the end of 1997, Telmex
had 9.3  million  access  lines in  service  and  provided  cellular  service to
approximately 1.1 million  subscribers.  Telmex began providing cable television
services  through its purchase in 1995 of a 49% stake of Grupo  Televisa's cable
television subsidiary, Cablevision. In March 1997, SBC issued approximately $396
million in debt due March 2001 which,  at SBC's  option,  may be  redeemed  upon
maturity either in cash or Telmex L shares (equivalent to up to 2.4% of Telmex's
equity capitalization at March 31, 1997).

            France

In October 1994, SBC  International  formed a strategic  alliance with Compagnie
Generale  des Eaux (CGE),  a French  diversified  public  company.  Through this
alliance,  SBC  International  acquired an  indirect  10%  ownership  of Societe
Francaise du Radiotelephone S.A. (SFR), a nationwide cellular company in France,
and minority ownership interests in other communications  businesses  controlled
by CGE, and CGE obtained an effective 10% interest in SBC's wireless  operations
in Washington,  D.C.- Baltimore, and surrounding rural markets. SBC and CGE both
made contributions to the alliance.  In 1997, SBC International  contributed its
indirect 10% ownership of SFR shares and an additional $240 million to acquire a
15% interest in Cegetel,  S.A., a new French  company formed by CGE to provide a
broad base of  telecommunications  services  throughout France.  Operations on a
limited  scale are  scheduled to begin during the first half of 1998. At the end
of 1997, SFR had 2.2 million wireless subscribers.

            Chile

In February 1995, SBC International purchased 40% of VTR S.A. (VTR), a privately
owned telecommunications holding company in Chile. During 1996 SBC International
increased  its stake to 49%  through  the  purchase  of shares  from a  minority
investor.  VTR is 51% indirectly owned by Grupo Luksic (Luksic), a large Chilean
conglomerate. During 1997, Luksic exercised an option to purchase more shares of
VTR from  SBC  International,  reducing  SBC's  ownership  to 44%.  Through  its
subsidiaries,  VTR provides local, long-distance,  wireless and cable television
services in Chile. In December 1997, VTR sold its wireless  service  operations.
At the end of 1997, local services were provided to approximately 123,000 access
lines and cable  television  services  were  provided to  approximately  367,000
subscribers.

            United Kingdom

In October 1995, SBC International  combined its United Kingdom cable television
operations,  which included  Midlands Cable  Communications  and Northwest Cable
Communications,  with those of TeleWest Communications,  P.L.C., a publicly held
joint venture between Telecommunications,  Inc. and U S WEST, Inc. The resulting
entity,  TeleWest P.L.C., is the largest cable television operator in the United
Kingdom and also  provides  local  exchange  services.  SBC  International  owns
approximately 15% of TeleWest P.L.C.

            Israel

SBC International  through its subsidiaries  holds a minority interest in Golden
Channels,  a cable  television  provider in Israel.  At the end of 1997,  Golden
Channels'   systems   passed  449,000   households   and  provided   service  to
approximately  292,000 households,  a penetration rate of approximately 65%. SBC
International  also has interests in companies  involved in the  publication  of
yellow pages directories, and marketing directory and other software in Israel.

In 1996, a consortium in which SBC  International  participated  received one of
two  licenses  for  international  telecommunications  service in Israel.  Other
consortium members are STET (Italy's national telephone company), the US/Israeli
Aurec Group, and the Israeli Globescom and Kahn groups. At the present time, the
award of these licenses is undergoing judicial review.

            Australia

In 1997, SBC International sold its directory  interests in Australia to Telstra
Corporation  Limited, the principal provider of  telecommunications  services in
Australia.

            South Africa

In 1997,  SBC  International  acquired an  effective  18% stake in Telkom,  S.A.
Limited (Telkom),  South Africa's state-owned local exchange, long distance, and
cellular  company.  SBC  International's  partner in the  acquisition is Telekom
Malaysia,  which acquired a 12% stake in Telkom. SBC International's still holds
its 15.5%  ownership  stake in MTN, one of South Africa's two national  cellular
companies,  but is obligated to divest it as part of the  acquisition of Telkom.
At the end of 1997,  Telkom  provided  local  exchange  services  to 4.5 million
access lines. Telkom provides long-distance service to all of its local exchange
customers.






            Switzerland

In June 1997, SBC International  purchased a 40% interest in diAx, a new company
formed  by SBC  International  and a  Swiss-based  company.  diAx  is  currently
building a network to provide  long-distance  telephone  service in Switzerland.
The target date for commencement of service is mid-1998.

            China

In December 1997, SBC  International  signed a Cable and  Maintenance  Agreement
with China Telecom and twelve other telecommunications  companies to construct a
direct  undersea  cable link between the United  States and China.  The cable is
expected to be completed by the year 2000.

            South Korea

SBC also has  wireless  interests  in South Korea where its  affiliate  provided
wireless service to approximately 1.1 million subscribers at the end of 1997.

            Taiwan

SBC  International  owns a 20%  interest in a consortium  that formed  TransAsia
Telecommunications, Inc., a new cellular service provider in Taiwan.
Offering of services commenced in January 1998.

      Directory Advertising

SWBYP  publishes  more than 43 million  books,  representing  approximately  347
directories,  principally  within the  five-state  area.  PBD, the  publisher of
Pacific  Bell SMART  Yellow  Pages,  publishes  35 million  books,  representing
approximately  112  directories  in California  and Nevada.  SBC  recognizes all
directory  advertising  revenues and expenses in the month the related directory
is published.  SWBYP's nine largest  revenue-producing  yellow pages directories
are  currently  published in the second half of SBC's  fiscal year,  while PBD's
publishing  schedule is spread throughout the year for its directories.  SWBYP's
directories  are  printed by R.R.  Donnelley  & Sons and PBD's  directories  are
printed by World Color Press.

      Customer Premises Equipment and Other Equipment Sales

In December 1996, substantially all of the operations of Telecom were moved into
the  operations  of  SWBell.  Equipment  offerings  range from  single-line  and
cordless  telephones  to  sophisticated  digital PBX  systems.  PBX is a private
telephone  switching  system,  usually located on a customer's  premises,  which
provides  intra-premise  telephone  services  as well as  access  to the  public
switched  network.   Telecom,  through  an  exclusive,   long-term  distribution
agreement  with  Conair  Corporation,  also  markets a full line of  residential
telephones to retailers  nationwide,  under the Southwestern  Bell Freedom Phone
name.

      Domestic Video Services

As part of the changes in strategic  direction of the  post-merger  initiatives,
SBC announced during 1997 that it is scaling back its limited direct  investment
in a number  of video  services.  Additional  information  on these  matters  is
contained  in Note 3 of the  1997  SBC  Annual  Report  to  Shareowners,  and is
incorporated  herein by reference pursuant to General  Instruction G(2). As part
of this curtailment,  SBC has halted construction on the Advanced Communications
Network (ACN) in California.  As part of an agreement  with the ACN vendor,  SBC
paid the  liabilities  of the ACN trust that owns and finances ACN  construction
and incurred costs to shut down all construction  previously conducted under the
trust and receive  certain  consideration  from the vendor.  SBC also  curtailed
several other  video-related  activities,  including its broadband network video
trials  in  Richardson,  Texas.  SBC has  also  substantially  scaled  back  its
involvement in the Tele-TV joint venture.

Media  Ventures  owns  two  cable   television   systems  serving  the  suburban
Washington,  D.C. area. Cable TV Montgomery serves Montgomery  County,  Maryland
and Cable TV Arlington serves Arlington  County,  Virginia.  At the end of 1997,
these systems passed 432,000 homes and served 278,000 customers. In August 1996,
Media  Ventures  contributed  Cable TV Montgomery  and Cable TV Arlington to SBC
Media Ventures,  LP (Partnership),  a recently formed partnership  between Media
Ventures  and  affiliates  of Prime Cable  (Prime).  Media  Ventures  became the
general  partner  and  retained an  approximate  95%  ownership  interest in the
Partnership.  Prime  contributed  $20 million to the Partnership and now manages
the cable systems on behalf of the  Partnership.  In October 1997, SBC entered a
definitive  agreement to sell Media  Ventures'  interest in the  Partnership  to
Prime and other investors. These transactions are expected to close during 1998.
On the same date, SBC entered into  definitive  agreements to sell its interests
in Prime Cable of Chicago,  Inc. to Prime and other investors.  A PAC subsidiary
had acquired these interests prior to the merger with SBC.

During  1995,   SBC  became  an  equal  partner  in  a  venture  with  Ameritech
Corporation, BellSouth Corporation, GTE, and The Walt Disney Company, to design,
market and deliver video  programming  and interactive  services.  In 1996, SNET
became a minority partner in this venture.  In mid-1997,  SBC Interactive Media,
Inc. (SBC Interactive),  a wholly-owned  subsidiary of SBC, notified the venture
of its  withdrawal.  On October 7, 1997 the  remaining  partners  in the venture
attempted to initiate arbitration against SBC Interactive regarding the validity
of its  withdrawal.  On October 15, 1997,  SBC  Interactive  filed a declaratory
judgement action in and sought a preliminary  injunction from Delaware  Chancery
Court to halt the arbitration  attempt. On December 24, 1997, the Chancery Court
directed that the  arbitration  proceed,  and on January 22, 1998,  SBC appealed
that ruling. This matter is still being litigated.

In connection with the post-merger initiatives, SBC reviewed the carrying values
of certain  wireless  video assets and other  related  long-lived  assets.  This
review included estimating remaining useful lives and cash flows and identifying
certain  assets  to  be  abandoned.  Where  this  review  indicated  impairment,
discounted  cash flows  related to those assets were  analyzed to determine  the
amount of the impairment. In 1997, SBC recognized impairments and took writeoffs
of  equipment  related  to  the  wireless  digital  TV  operations  in  southern
California.

GOVERNMENT REGULATION

In the in-region  states,  the Telephone  Companies are subject to regulation by
state  commissions  which  have  the  power to  regulate,  in  varying  degrees,
intrastate rates and services, including local, long-distance and network access
(both intraLATA and interLATA access within the state)  services.  The Telephone
Companies  are also  subject  to the  jurisdiction  of the FCC with  respect  to
interstate and  international  rates and services,  including  interstate access
charges.  Access charges are designed to compensate the Telephone  Companies for
the use of their  facilities for the origination or termination of long-distance
and  other  communications  by other  carriers.  There are  currently  no access
charges for access to the Internet.

Additional information relating to federal and state regulation of the Telephone
Companies is contained in the 1997 SBC Annual  Report to  Shareowners  under the
heading  "Regulatory  Environment"  on page 23,  and is  incorporated  herein by
reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).

SBC's  cable  systems are  subject to federal  and local  regulation,  including
regulation  by the FCC and  local  franchising  authorities,  concerning  rates,
service and programming access.

IMPORTANCE, DURATION AND EFFECT OF LICENSES

The  FCC  authorizes  the  licenses  for  multiple  wireless  carriers  in  each
geographic market.  The cellular  licenses,  of which there are only two in each
geographic  region have a standard  duration of ten years,  and upon application
and a showing of compliance  with FCC use and conduct  standards may be renewed.
Renewal  applications were filed in the following markets during 1997:  Abilene,
Texas;   Brownsville-Harlingen,   Texas;   Champaign-Urbana-Rantoul,   Illinois;
Decatur,  Illinois;  McAllen-Edinburgh-Mission,  Texas; Midland,  Texas; Odessa,
Texas; Springfield, Illinois and Fayetteville-Springdale, Arkansas. Renewals for
these licenses were granted in January 1998. Renewal  applications will be filed
in the following markets during 1998: Bloomington-Normal,  Illinois; Glen Falls,
New York;  Laredo,  Texas;  Little  Rock-North Little Rock,  Arkansas;  and Pine
Bluff, Arkansas.

Under the auction  process of an FCC order  outlining  the  development  of PCS,
licenses  with  durations of ten years were awarded in 51 major  markets.  SBC's
licenses  for  Los  Angeles-San  Diego,  California,   San  Francisco-San  Jose,
California and Tulsa, Oklahoma expire in 2005. These licenses,  upon application
and a showing of compliance with FCC use and conduct standards, may be renewed.

Cable television  systems generally are operated under  nonexclusive  permits or
"franchises"  granted  by  local  governmental  authorities.  SBC  operates  its
suburban  Washington,  D.C. cable systems under franchises granted by Montgomery
County,  Maryland,  which expires in May 1998; Arlington County, Virginia, which
expires in October 2000; and the City of Gaithersburg,  Maryland,  which expires
in November  2001.  During  1995,  SBC  received a franchise  to operate a cable
system in Richardson,  Texas, which expires in September 2013. Each franchise is
renewable  upon a showing  of  compliance  with  established  local and  federal
standards.  A number of SBC subsidiaries  hold FCC channel licenses for wireless
video services.  These subsidiaries also have numerous leases with Instructional
Television  Fixed Service (ITFS)  channel  licensees to use their excess channel
capacity. The channels under these licenses and leases are primarily in southern
California.


MAJOR CUSTOMER

No customer accounted for more than 10% of SBC's consolidated  revenues in 1997,
1996 or 1995.

COMPETITION

      Communication Services

Information relating to competition in the communications  industry is contained
in SBC's Annual Report to  Shareowners  for 1997 under the heading  "Competitive
Environment"  beginning  on page 25,  and is  incorporated  herein by  reference
pursuant to General Instruction G(2).

      International

Information  relating to international  competition is contained in SBC's Annual
Report to Shareowners for 1997 under the heading "International" on page 28, and
is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).






      Directory Advertising and Publishing

Both  SWBYP  and PBD face  competition  from  over  100  publishers  of  printed
directories in their operating areas. Direct and indirect competition also exist
from other advertising  media,  including  newspapers,  radio,  television,  and
direct mail providers, as well as from directories offered over the Internet.

      Customer Premises Equipment and Other Equipment Sales

SBC faces  significant  competition  from  numerous  companies in marketing  its
telecommunications equipment.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

Certain  company-sponsored  basic and applied  research  was  conducted  at Bell
Communications  Research,  Inc.  (Bellcore).  The  Telephone  Companies  owned a
two-seventh  interest in Bellcore,  with the  remainder  owned by the other four
remaining  RHCs. In November 1997, the sale of Bellcore was completed.  The RHCs
have  retained  the   activities  of  Bellcore  that   coordinate   the  Federal
Government's telecommunications requirements for national security and emergency
preparedness.

Applied  research is also conducted at SBC Technology  Resources,  Inc. (TRI), a
subsidiary of SBC. TRI provides  research,  technology  planning and  evaluation
services to SBC and its subsidiaries.

EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 1997,  SBC and its  subsidiaries  employed  118,340  persons.
Approximately 67% of the employees are represented by the Communications Workers
of America (CWA).  Contracts  covering an estimated 73,000 employees between the
CWA and the Telephone  Companies end in August 1998. New contracts are scheduled
to be negotiated in 1998. A three-year contract (which covers an estimated 2,000
employees) was negotiated  between the CWA and SWBYP,  which became effective in
December  1995. A new contract is scheduled to be  negotiated  in 1998. In 1995,
PBD negotiated two new three-year  contracts with the International  Brotherhood
of Electrical Workers (IBEW), covering approximately 1,600 employees in northern
and southern  California.  PBD also is scheduled to negotiate new contracts with
the IBEW in 1998. The CWA also  represents an estimated 2,000 employees in other
subsidiaries of SBC.






ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

The  properties of SBC do not lend  themselves to  description  by character and
location of principal  units.  At December 31, 1997, 94% of the property,  plant
and equipment of SBC was owned by the Telephone Companies.  Network access lines
represented  42% of the  Telephone  Companies'  investment  in telephone  plant;
central office equipment  represented  39%; land and buildings  represented 10%;
other  miscellaneous  property,  comprised  principally  of furniture and office
equipment and vehicles and other work equipment, represented 6%; and information
origination/termination equipment represented 4%.

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

Six  putative  class  actions in Texas,  Missouri,  Oklahoma,  and  Kansas  that
involved the provision by SWBell of maintenance and trouble  diagnosis  services
relating  to  telephone  inside  wire  located on  customer  premises  have been
settled.  These actions alleged that SWBell's sales practices in connection with
these  services  violated  antitrust,  fraud and/or  deceptive  trade  practices
statutes. The trial court has approved the settlement,  which is not expected to
materially affect the financial results of SBC.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

No matter was submitted to a vote of  shareowners  in the fourth  quarter of the
fiscal year covered by this report.







                      EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

        Name           Age            Position                     Held Since

Edward E. Whitacre,Jr. 56   Chairman and Chief Executive Officer         1-90
   
John H. Atterbury III  49   Senior Vice President - International        6-97
                            Operations

Royce S. Caldwell      59   President - SBC Operations                   7-95

Cassandra C. Carr      53   Senior Vice President - Human Resources      5-94

William E. Dreyer      60   Senior Executive Vice President -            7-93
                            External Affairs

James D. Ellis         54   Senior Executive Vice President and          3-89
                            General Counsel

Charles E. Foster      61   Group President - SBC                        7-95

James S. Kahan         50   Senior Vice President - Corporate            7-93
                            Development

Donald E. Kiernan      57   Senior Vice President, Treasurer and         7-93
                              Chief Financial Officer

Stanley T. Sigman      50   President and Chief Executive Officer        4-97
                            SBC Wireless Inc.



All of the above executive officers have held high-level managerial positions
with SBC or its subsidiaries for more than the past five years.  Executive
officers are not appointed to a fixed term of office.






                                   PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED
            STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

The  number  of  shareowners  of record as of  December  31,  1997 and 1996 were
1,059,158 and 800,465.  Other  information  required by this Item is included in
the SBC Annual Report to Shareowners for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997
under the  headings  "Quarterly  Financial  Information"  on page 45,  "Selected
Financial and Operating Data" on page 18, and "Stock Trading Information" on the
inside of back cover,  which are  incorporated  herein by reference  pursuant to
General Instruction G(2).

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA

Information  required  by this  Item is  included  in the SBC  Annual  Report to
Shareowners  for the  fiscal  year ended  December  31,  1997 under the  heading
"Selected  Financial and Operating Data" on page 18 which is incorporated herein
by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
RESULTS OF OPERATION

Information  required  by this  Item is  included  in the SBC  Annual  Report to
Shareowners  for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997 on page 19 through page
30, which is incorporated  herein by reference  pursuant to General  Instruction
G(2).

ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

      Quantitative Information about Market Risk

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Foreign Exchange Risk Sensitivity Analysis
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
December 31,    US Dollar Value  Net Underlying   Net Exposed   Foreign Exchange
1997            of Net Foreign   Foreign          Long/Short    Loss from a 10%
(millions of $) Exchange         Currency         Currency      Depreciation  of
                Contracts        Transaction      Position      the US dollar
                                 Exposures
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Swiss Franc     $  14            $  14            $ 0            $0
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Japanese Yen      142              142              0             0
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total Exposure  $ 156             $156             $0            $0
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The preceding  table describes the effects of a change in the value of the Swiss
franc and Japanese  yen.  Since the  identified  exposure is fully  covered with
forward contracts,  changes in the value of the US dollar which affect the value
of the underlying foreign currency commitment are fully offset by changes in the
value of the foreign currency contract. Were the underlying currency transaction
exposure to change,  the resulting mismatch would expose the company to currency
risk of the foreign  exchange  contract.  For this  reason,  all  contracts  are
related to firm commitments and matched by maturity and currency.






- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      Equity Price Risk Sensitivity Analysis
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
December 31, 1997  Net            Value of       Net         Loss from a 40%
(millions of $)    Appreciated    Underlying     Exposed     Increase in the
                   Value of       Employee       Long/Short  price of AirTouch
                   Equity Swap    Stock Option   Equity      Common
                   Contract       Exposures      Position
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AirTouch           $12            $14            $2          $(.8)
Communications
Inc. (AirTouch)
Common
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The  table  above  describes  the  effects  of an  appreciation  in the price of
AirTouch  common used in settlement of employee stock  options.  At December 31,
1997  the  notional  value  of an  equity  swap  contract  entered  in 1994  had
appreciated  by $12  million,  while the  value of the  underlying  options  for
AirTouch common had increased to $14 million, a difference of $2 million. If the
obligations  under the options granted were left exposed to a 40 percent rise in
the value of the stock,  the result would have been an $800,000 loss. Since 1995
the  average  yearly rate of change in the price of  AirTouch  common  stock has
ranged from 25%-40%. The equity swap contract expires April 1999.



The above table  describes the results of entering an interest rate swap for the
purpose of providing  variable rate payment streams to pay a floating rate note,
in exchange for fixed rate payments.  As a result of interest rate  fluctuations
if SBC were to  terminate  the contract it would be required to pay $1.5 million
to replace the fixed rate flow. SBC does not intend to terminate the contract as
it is linked to a bond issued by SBC.

     Qualitative Information about Market Risk

Foreign Exchange Risk
SBC has operations in ten  countries.  From time to time SBC is required to make
investments, receive dividends, or borrow funds in foreign currency. To maintain
the dollar cost of the  investment or limit the dollar cost of the funding,  SBC
will enter into forward foreign  exchange  contracts.  The contracts are used to
provide currency at a fixed rate. SBC's policy is to measure the risk of adverse
currency  fluctuations by calculating the potential dollar losses resulting from
changes in  exchange  rates that have a  reasonable  probability  of  occurring.
Changes that exceed  acceptable loss limits require that SBC cover the exposure.
SBC does not  speculate  in  foreign  exchange  markets,  and does not hedge all
foreign exchange exposures due to uncertainty in foreign exchange cash flows.

Equity Risk
PAC  entered  into an equity swap  contract to hedge  exposure to risk of market
changes related to its recorded liability for outstanding employee stock options
for  common  stock of  AirTouch  (spun-off  operations).  PAC plans to make open
market  purchases of the stock of spun-off  operations to satisfy its obligation
for options that are exercised.  Off-balance-sheet risk exists to the extent the
market  price of AirTouch  rises in value.  The equity swap was entered  into to
hedge this exposure and minimize the impact of market fluctuations. The contract
entitles  PAC to  receive  settlement  payments  to the  extent the price of the
common stock of spun-off operations rises above the notional value of $23.74 per
share,  but  imposes  an  obligation  to make  payments  to the extent the price
declines below this level. The swap also obligates PAC to make a monthly payment
of a fee based on LIBOR. The additional cost of AirTouch shares is offset by the
gain in the value of the shares obtained by proportionate sales of the swap. SBC
does not seek to profit from  changes in the value of the swap.  For this reason
the swap transactions are matched to exercise activity as closely as possible.

Interest Rate Risk
SBC issues debt in fixed and floating rate instruments.  Interest rate swaps are
used for the purpose of controlling interest expense by fixing the interest rate
of floating  rate debt.  When market  conditions  favor issuing debt in floating
rate  instruments,  and SBC prefers not to take the risk of floating rates,  SBC
will enter  interest  rate swap  contracts to obtain  floating  rate payments to
service the debt in exchange for paying a fixed rate.  SBC does not seek to make
a profit from changes in interest  rates.  In order to maintain  flexibility  in
funding amounts,  it is necessary to accept exposure to volatile interest rates.
SBC manages  interest  rate  sensitivity  by  measuring  potential  increases in
interest  expense  that would result from a probable  change in interest  rates.
When the potential increase in interest expense exceeds an acceptable limit, SBC
reduces risk through fixed rate instruments and derivatives.






ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

Information  required  by this  Item is  included  in the SBC  Annual  Report to
Shareowners  for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997 on page 31 through page
45, which is incorporated  herein by reference  pursuant to General  Instruction
G(2).

ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING
         AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

No changes in accountants or disagreements with accountants on any accounting or
financial disclosure matters occurred during the period covered by this report.






                                   PART III


ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Information  regarding executive officers required by Item 401 of Regulation S-K
is furnished in a separate  disclosure at the end of Part I of this report since
the  registrant  did  not  furnish  such  information  in its  definitive  proxy
statement  prepared in accordance with Schedule 14A. Other information  required
by this Item is included in the registrant's  definitive proxy statement,  dated
March 11, 1998, under the heading "Board of Directors" beginning on page 3 which
is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(3).

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

Information  required by this Item is included  in the  registrant's  definitive
proxy  statement,  dated March 11,  1998,  under the headings  "Compensation  of
Directors" from page 11 through page 12, and "Compensation  Committee Interlocks
and Insider  Participation",  "Executive  Compensation",  "Pension  Plans",  and
"Contracts with Management" from page 20 through page 31, which are incorporated
herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(3).

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
              MANAGEMENT

Information  required by this Item is included  in the  registrant's  definitive
proxy statement, dated March 11, 1998, under the heading "Common Stock Ownership
of Directors and Officers" on page 13, which is incorporated herein by reference
pursuant to General Instruction G(3).


ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

Information  required by this Item is included  in the  registrant's  definitive
proxy  statement,  dated  March 11,  1998,  under the heading  "Compensation  of
Directors"  from page 11 through page 12 and "Contracts  with  Management"  from
page 30 through  31,  which are  incorporated  herein by  reference  pursuant to
General Instruction G(3).






                                    PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON
FORM 8-K

(a) Documents filed as a part of the report:
                                                                 Page
                                                                   ---

     (1) Report of Independent Auditors..........................   *
        Financial Statements covered by Report of Independent Auditors:
         Consolidated Statements of Income.......................   *
         Consolidated Balance Sheets.............................   *
         Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows...................   *
         Consolidated Statements of Shareowners' Equity..........   *
         Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements..............   *


     *Incorporated herein by reference to the appropriate portions of the
      registrant's annual report to shareowners for the fiscal year ended
      December 31, 1997.  (See Part II.)

                                                                 Page
                                                                   ---

     (2) Financial Statement Schedules:
         II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts..................  26

     Financial  statement  schedules  other  than those  listed  above have been
     omitted  because the required  information  is  contained in the  financial
     statements and notes thereto, or because such schedules are not required or
     applicable.

     (3) Exhibits:

     Exhibits  identified in parentheses  below, on file with the Securities and
     Exchange Commission (SEC), are incorporated herein by reference as exhibits
     hereto.  Unless otherwise indicated,  all exhibits so incorporated are from
     File No. 1-8610.

     Exhibit
     Number......................................................

     2-a    Agreement  and Plan of Merger,  among  Pacific  Telesis  Group,  SBC
            Communications  Inc. and SBC  Communications  (NV) Inc., dated as of
            April 1, 1996. (Exhibit 2 to Form 8-K, dated April 1, 1996.)

     2-b    Agreement   and  Plan  of  Merger,   among   Southern   New  England
            Telecommunications  Corporation,  SBC  Communications  Inc., and SBC
            (CT),  dated as of January 4,  1998.  (Exhibit 2 to Form 8-K,  dated
            January 4, 1998.)

     3-a    Restated  Certificate of Incorporation,  filed with the Secretary of
            State of Delaware on April 29,  1996.  (Exhibit 3 to Form 10-Q dated
            March 31, 1996.)

     3-b    Certificate  of  Designation,  filed with the  Secretary of State of
            Delaware on March 31, 1997.

     3-c    Bylaws dated January 30, 1998.  (Exhibit to SBC Communications  Inc.
            (SBC) Form 8-K dated February 5, 1998.)

     4-a    Pursuant to Regulation  S-K, Item  601(b)(4)(iii)(A),  no instrument
            which  defines  the  rights  of  holders  of  long-term  debt of the
            registrant  or  any  of  its  consolidated   subsidiaries  is  filed
            herewith.  Pursuant to this regulation, the registrant hereby agrees
            to furnish a copy of any such instrument to the SEC upon request.

     4-b    Support  Agreement  dated  November 10,  1986,  between SBC and SBC
            Communications Capital Corporation. (Exhibit 4-b to Registration
            Statement No. 33-11669.)

     4-c    Form of Rights Agreement,  dated as of January 27, 1989, between SBC
            and American  Transtech,  Inc., the Rights Agent,  which includes as
            Exhibit B thereto the form of Rights  Certificate.  (Exhibit  4-a to
            Form 8-A dated February 9, 1989.)

     4-d    Amendment  of Rights  Agreement,  dated as of August 5, 1992,  among
            SBC,  American  Transtech,  Inc.,  and  The  Bank of New  York,  the
            successor   Rights  Agent,   which   includes  the  Form  of  Rights
            Certificate  as an attachment  identified as Exhibit B. (Exhibit 4-a
            to Form 8-K, dated August 7, 1992.)

     4-e    Form  of  Rights  Certificate  (included  in the  attachment  to the
            Amendment of Rights Agreement and identified as Exhibit B.) (Exhibit
            4-b to Form 8-K, dated August 7, 1992.)

     4-f    Second Amendment of Rights Agreement,  dated June 15, 1994,  between
            SBC and The Bank of New York, as successor  Rights  Agent.  (Exhibit
            4-e to Form 8-A/A, dated June 22, 1994.)

     4-g    Resolutions  guaranteeing  certain  obligations  of Pacific  Telesis
            Group.

     10-a   Short Term Incentive Plan.

     10-b   Senior Management Long Term Incentive Plan.  (Exhibit 10-b to
            Form 10-K for 1992.)

     10-c   Supplemental Life Insurance Plan.

     10-d   Supplemental Retirement Income Plan.

     10-e   Senior Management Deferred Compensation Plan (effective for Units of
            Participation  Having a Unit Start  Date Prior to January 1,  1988),
            revised July 30, 1993.  (Exhibit 10.5 to Registration  Statement No.
            33-54795.)

     10-f   Senior Management Deferred  Compensation Plan of 1988 (effective for
            Units of  Participation  Having a Unit Start Date of January 1, 1988
            or later),  revised July 30,  1993.  (Exhibit  10.6 to  Registration
            Statement No. 33-54795.)

     10-g   Senior Management Long Term Disability Plan.  (Exhibit 10-f to
            Form 10-K for 1986.)

     10-h   Salary and Incentive Award Deferral Plan.

     10-i   Financial Counseling Program.

     10-j   Supplemental Health Plan.

     10-k   Retirement Plan for Non-Employee Directors.

     10-l   Form of Indemnity Agreement, effective July 1, 1986, between SBC and
            its  directors  and  officers.   (Appendix  1  to  Definitive  Proxy
            Statement dated March 18, 1987.)

     10-m   Forms of Change of Control Severance  Agreements for officers of SBC
            and certain  officers of SBC's  subsidiaries  (Exhibit  10-p to Form
            10-K for 1988.)

     10-n   Forms of Change of Control Severance  Agreements for officers of SBC
            and certain officers of SBC's  subsidiaries  (Approved  November 21,
            1997).

     10-o   Stock Savings Plan.

     10-p   1992 Stock Option Plan.

     10-q   Officer Retirement Savings Plan.

     10-r   1996 Stock and Incentive Plan.

     10-s   Non-Employee Director Stock and Deferral Plan.

     10-t   Agreement  with Philip J. Quigley dated March 28, 1997 (Exhibit 10pp
            (vii) to Form 10-K for 1996 of Pacific Telesis Group (Reg. 1-8609))

     10-u   Agreement with Philip J. Quigley, dated October 24, 1998.

     10-v   Pacific Telesis Group Deferred Compensation Plan for Nonemployee
            Directors.  (Exhibit 10gg to Form 10-K for 1996 of Pacific
            Telesis Group (Reg. 1-8609).)

            10-v(i) Resolutions amending the Plan, effective November 21, 1997.

     10-w   Pacific Telesis Group Outside  Directors'  Deferred Stock Unit Plan.
            (Exhibit  10oo to Form 10-K for 1995 of Pacific  Telesis Group (Reg.
            1-8609).)

     10-x   Pacific Telesis Group 1996 Directors'  Deferred  Compensation  Plan.
            (Exhibit  10qq to Form 10-K for 1996 of Pacific  Telesis Group (Reg.
            1-8609).)

            10-x(i)  Resolutions amending the Plan, effective November 21, 1997.
                     (Exhibit 10-v(i) to this Form 10-K.)

     10-y   Pacific  Telesis Group Executive  Supplemental  Cash Balance Pension
            Plan.  (Exhibit 10kk to Form 10-K for 1996 of Pacific  Telesis Group
            (Reg. 1-8609).)

     10-z   Pacific Telesis Group Executive Deferral Plan. (Exhibit 10ll to Form
            10-K for 1995 of Pacific Telesis Group (Reg. 1-8609).)

     10-aa  Pacific Telesis Group 1996 Executive Deferred Compensation Plan.
            (Exhibit 10nn to Form 10-K for 1996 of Pacific Telesis Group
            (Reg. 1-8609).)

            10-aa(i) Resolutions amending the Plan, effective November 21, 1997.
                     (Exhibit 10-v(i) to this Form 10-K.)

     10-bb  Pacific Telesis Group 1994 Stock  Incentive  Plan.  (Attachment A to
            Pacific  Telesis  Group's 1994 Proxy Statement filed March 11, 1994,
            and amended March 14 and March 25, 1994.)

            10-bb(i) Resolutions  amending the Plan,  effective January 1, 1995.
                     (Attachment  A  to  Pacific   Telesis  Group's  1995  Proxy
                     Statement, filed March 13, 1995.)

     10-cc  Pacific Telesis Group Nonemployee Director Stock Option Plan.
            (Exhibit A to Pacific  Telesis Group's 1990 Proxy Statement filed
            February 26, 1990.)

            10-cc(i) Resolutions  amending  the Plan,  effective  April 1, 1994.
                     (Exhibit  10xx(i) to Form 10-K for 1996 of Pacific  Telesis
                     Group (Reg. 1-8609).)

     12     Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges.

     13     Portions of SBC's Annual Report to  shareowners  for the fiscal year
            ended  December  31,  1997.  Only the  information  incorporated  by
            reference into this Form 10-K is included in the exhibit.

     21     Subsidiaries of SBC.

     23-a   Consent of Ernst & Young LLP.

     23-b   Consent of Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P.

     24     Powers of Attorney.

     27     Financial Data Schedule.

     99-a   Annual Report on Form 11-K for the Savings Plan for the year 1997 to
            be filed under Form 10 K/A.

     99-b   Annual Report on Form 11-K for the Savings and Security Plan for the
            year 1997 to be filed under Form 10-K/A.

     99-c   Report of Independent Auditors Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P.

SBC will furnish to shareowners upon request,  and without charge, a copy of the
annual  report to  shareowners  and the proxy  statement,  portions of which are
incorporated  by reference in the Form 10-K.  SBC will furnish any other exhibit
at cost.

(b)         Reports on Form 8-K:

     None.




































                                  SIGNATURES


     Pursuant  to the  requirements  of  Section  13 or 15(d) of the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the  undersigned,  thereunto duly  authorized,  on the 11th day of
March, 1998.

                                       SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC.


                                       By /s/ Donald E. Kiernan
                                       (Donald E. Kiernan
                                       Senior Vice President, Treasurer and
                                       Chief Financial Officer)

    Pursuant to the  requirements  of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, this
report  has  been  signed  below  by the  following  persons  on  behalf  of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.

Principal Executive Officer:
    Edward E. Whitacre, Jr.*
    Chairman and
    Chief Executive Officer

Principal Financial and
 Accounting Officer:
    Donald E. Kiernan
    Senior Vice President, Treasurer
    and Chief Financial Officer
                                        /s/ Donald E. Kiernan
Directors:                             (Donald E. Kiernan, as attorney-in-fact
                                       and on his own behalf as Principal
Edward E. Whitacre, Jr.*               Financial Officer and Principal
Clarence C. Barksdale*                 Accounting Officer)
James E. Barnes*
August A. Busch III*
Royce S. Caldwell*                     March 11, 1998
Ruben R. Cardenas*
William P. Clark*
Martin K. Eby, Jr.*
Herman E. Gallegos*
Jess T. Hay*
Bobby R. Inman*
Charles F. Knight*
Mary S. Metz*
Haskell M. Monroe, Jr.*
Toni Rembe*
S. Donley Ritchey*
Richard M. Rosenberg*
Patricia P. Upton*

* by power of attorney





                                 EXHIBIT INDEX

     Exhibits  identified in parentheses  below, on file with the Securities and
     Exchange Commission (SEC), are incorporated herein by reference as exhibits
     hereto.  Unless otherwise indicated,  all exhibits so incorporated are from
     File No. 1-8610.

     Exhibit
     Number......................................................

     2-a    Agreement  and Plan of Merger,  among  Pacific  Telesis  Group,  SBC
            Communications  Inc. and SBC  Communications  (NV) Inc., dated as of
            April 1, 1996. (Exhibit 2 to Form 8-K, dated April 1, 1996.)

     2-b    Agreement   and  Plan  of  Merger,   among   Southern   New  England
            Telecommunications  Corporation,  SBC  Communications  Inc., and SBC
            (CT),  dated as of January 4,  1998.  (Exhibit 2 to Form 8-K,  dated
            January 4, 1998.)

     3-a    Restated  Certificate of Incorporation,  filed with the Secretary of
            State of Delaware on April 29,  1996.  (Exhibit 3 to Form 10-Q dated
            March 31, 1996.)

     3-b    Certificate  of  Designation,  filed with the  Secretary of State of
            Delaware on March 31, 1997.

     3-c    Bylaws dated January 30, 1998.  (Exhibit to SBC Communications  Inc.
            (SBC) Form 8-K dated February 5, 1998.)

     4-a    Pursuant to Regulation  S-K, Item  601(b)(4)(iii)(A),  no instrument
            which  defines  the  rights  of  holders  of  long-term  debt of the
            registrant  or  any  of  its  consolidated   subsidiaries  is  filed
            herewith.  Pursuant to this regulation, the registrant hereby agrees
            to furnish a copy of any such instrument to the SEC upon request.

     4-b    Support  Agreement  dated  November 10,  1986,  between SBC and SBC
            Communications  Capital  Corporation.  (Exhibit 4-b to  Registration
            Statement No. 33-11669.)

     4-c    Form of Rights Agreement,  dated as of January 27, 1989, between SBC
            and American  Transtech,  Inc., the Rights Agent,  which includes as
            Exhibit B thereto the form of Rights  Certificate.  (Exhibit  4-a to
            Form 8-A dated February 9, 1989.)

     4-d    Amendment  of Rights  Agreement,  dated as of August 5, 1992,  among
            SBC,  American  Transtech,  Inc.,  and  The  Bank of New  York,  the
            successor   Rights  Agent,   which   includes  the  Form  of  Rights
            Certificate  as an attachment  identified as Exhibit B. (Exhibit 4-a
            to Form 8-K, dated August 7, 1992.)

     4-e    Form  of  Rights  Certificate  (included  in the  attachment  to the
            Amendment of Rights Agreement and identified as Exhibit B.) (Exhibit
            4-b to Form 8-K, dated August 7, 1992.)

     4-f    Second Amendment of Rights Agreement,  dated June 15, 1994,  between
            SBC and The Bank of New York, as successor  Rights  Agent.  (Exhibit
            4-e to Form 8-A/A, dated June 22, 1994.)

     4-g    Resolutions  guaranteeing  certain  obligations  of Pacific  Telesis
            Group.

     10-a   Short Term Incentive Plan.

     10-b   Senior  Management Long Term Incentive  Plan.  (Exhibit 10-b to Form
            10-K for 1992.)

     10-c   Supplemental Life Insurance Plan.

     10-d   Supplemental Retirement Income Plan.

     10-e   Senior Management Deferred Compensation Plan (effective for Units of
            Participation  Having a Unit Start  Date Prior to January 1,  1988),
            revised July 30, 1993.  (Exhibit 10.5 to Registration  Statement No.
            33-54795.)

     10-f   Senior Management Deferred  Compensation Plan of 1988 (effective for
            Units of  Participation  Having a Unit Start Date of January 1, 1988
            or later),  revised July 30,  1993.  (Exhibit  10.6 to  Registration
            Statement No. 33-54795.)

     10-g   Senior  Management Long Term Disability Plan.  (Exhibit 10-f to Form
            10-K for 1986.)

     10-h   Salary and Incentive Award Deferral Plan.

     10-i   Financial Counseling Program.

     10-j   Supplemental Health Plan.

     10-k   Retirement Plan for Non-Employee Directors.

     10-l   Form of Indemnity Agreement, effective July 1, 1986, between SBC and
            its  directors  and  officers.   (Appendix  1  to  Definitive  Proxy
            Statement dated March 18, 1987.)

     10-m   Forms of Change of Control Severance  Agreements for officers of SBC
            and certain  officers of SBC's  subsidiaries  (Exhibit  10-p to Form
            10-K for 1988.)

     10-n   Forms of Change of Control Severance  Agreements for officers of SBC
            and certain officers of SBC's  subsidiaries  (Approved  November 21,
            1997).

     10-o   Stock Savings Plan.

     10-p   1992 Stock Option Plan.

     10-q   Officer Retirement Savings Plan.

     10-r   1996 Stock and Incentive Plan.

     10-s   Non-Employee Director Stock and Deferral Plan.

     10-t   Agreement with Philip J. Quigley, dated March 28, 1997 (Exhibit 10pp
            (vii) to Form 10-K for 1996 of Pacific Telesis Group (Reg. 1-8609))

     10-u   Agreement with Philip J. Quigley, dated October 24, 1998.

     10-v   Pacific  Telesis Group Deferred  Compensation  Plan for  Nonemployee
            Directors.  (Exhibit  10gg to Form 10-K for 1996 of Pacific  Telesis
            Group (Reg. 1-8609).)

            10-v(i) Resolutions amending the Plan, effective November 21, 1997.

     10-w   Pacific Telesis Group Outside  Directors'  Deferred Stock Unit Plan.
            (Exhibit  10oo to Form 10-K for 1995 of Pacific  Telesis Group (Reg.
            1-8609).)

     10-x   Pacific Telesis Group 1996 Directors'  Deferred  Compensation  Plan.
            (Exhibit  10qq to Form 10-K for 1996 of Pacific  Telesis Group (Reg.
            1-8609).)

            10-x(i) Resolutions  amending the Plan, effective November 21, 1997.
            (Exhibit 10-v(i) to this Form 10-K.)

     10-y   Pacific  Telesis Group Executive  Supplemental  Cash Balance Pension
            Plan.  (Exhibit 10kk to Form 10-K for 1996 of Pacific  Telesis Group
            (Reg. 1-8609).)

     10-z   Pacific Telesis Group Executive Deferral Plan. (Exhibit 10ll to Form
            10-K for 1995 of Pacific Telesis Group (Reg. 1-8609).)

     10-aa  Pacific  Telesis Group 1996 Executive  Deferred  Compensation  Plan.
            (Exhibit  10nn to Form 10-K for 1996 of Pacific  Telesis Group (Reg.
            1-8609).)

            10-aa(i) Resolutions amending the Plan, effective November 21, 1997.
            (Exhibit 10-v(i) to this Form 10-K.)

     10-bb  Pacific Telesis Group 1994 Stock  Incentive  Plan.  (Attachment A to
            Pacific  Telesis  Group's 1994 Proxy Statement filed March 11, 1994,
            and amended March 14 and March 25, 1994.)

            10-bb(i) Resolutions  amending the Plan,  effective January 1, 1995.
                     (Attachment  A  to  Pacific   Telesis  Group's  1995  Proxy
                     Statement, filed March 13, 1995.)

     10-cc  Pacific  Telesis  Group  Nonemployee  Director  Stock  Option  Plan.
            (Exhibit A to Pacific  Telesis  Group's 1990 Proxy  Statement  filed
            February 26, 1990.)

            10-cc(i)  Resolutions  amending the Plan,  effective  April 1, 1994.
                  (Exhibit  10xx(i)  to Form  10-K for 1996 of  Pacific  Telesis
                  Group (Reg. 1-8609).)

     12     Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges.

     13     Portions of SBC's Annual Report to  shareowners  for the fiscal year
            ended  December  31,  1997.  Only the  information  incorporated  by
            reference into this Form 10-K is included in the exhibit.

     21     Subsidiaries of SBC.

     23-a   Consent of Ernst & Young LLP.

     23-b   Consent of Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P.

     24     Powers of Attorney.

     27     Financial Data Schedule.

     99-a   Annual Report on Form 11-K for the Savings Plan for the year 1997 to
            be filed under Form 10 K/A.

     99-b   Annual Report on Form 11-K for the Savings and Security Plan for the
            year 1997 to be filed under Form 10-K/A.

     99-c   Report of Independent Auditors Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P.



