
10-K
FORM 10-K


 

                                      Form 10-K

                          Securities and Exchange Commission
                                Washington, D.C. 20549
          (Mark One)
              X   Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) 
                of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Fee Required)

                       For fiscal year ended December 31, 1993

                                         or  

          ______  Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) 
                of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Fee Required)

               For the transition period from             to           
                           Commission File Number:  1-8610

                            SOUTHWESTERN BELL CORPORATION

                 Incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware
                   I.R.S. Employer Identification Number 43-1301883

                    175 E. Houston, San Antonio, Texas 78205-2233
                            Telephone Number 210-821-4105

             Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
                                             Name of each exchange
          Title of each class                 on which registered  
          Common Shares                     New York, Chicago and
          (Par Value $1.00 Per Share)       Pacific Stock Exchanges

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: 
          None.

          Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all
          reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
          Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months
          (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to
          file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
          requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes   X     No _____

          Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
          pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein,
          and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge,
          in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
          reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
          Form 10-K.   ( X )

          Based on composite closing sales price on February 28, 1994, the
          aggregate market value of all voting stock held by non-affiliates
          was $23,546,222,094.  As of February 28, 1994, 601,820,373 shares
          of Common Stock were outstanding.


                         Documents Incorporated By Reference

          (1)Portions of Southwestern Bell Corporation's annual report to
          shareowners for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1993 (Parts I
          and II).


          (2)Portions of Southwestern Bell Corporation's Notice of 1994
          Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement dated March 18, 1994 (Parts
          III and IV).





                                  
                                        PART I

          Item                                                   Page

          1.  Business                                           3
          2.  Properties                                         14
          3.  Legal Proceedings                                  14
          4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
               Holders                                           14


              Executive Officers of the Registrant               15


                                       PART II

          5.  Market for Registrant's Common Equity and 
              Related Stockholder Matters                        16
          6.  Selected Financial and Operating Data              16
          7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis
              of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   16
          8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data        16
          9.  Changes in and disagreements with 
              Accountants on Accounting and Financial 
              Disclosure                                         16


                                       PART III

          10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the
               Registrant                                        16
          11.  Executive Compensation                            16
          12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial 
               Owners and  Management                            16
          13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions     16 



                                       PART IV

          14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and 
             Reports on Form 8-K                                 17 



                                        PART I

          Item 1.  Business

          The Company

          Southwestern Bell Corporation (Corporation) is a communications
          holding company whose subsidiaries are engaged principally in
          communications services.  The Corporation has several
          subsidiaries, which include:  Southwestern Bell Telephone Company
          (Telephone Company), Southwestern Bell Mobile Systems, Inc.
          (Mobile Systems), SBC International, Inc.  (SBC International),
          Southwestern Bell Yellow Pages, Inc. (Yellow Pages), Associated
          Directory Services, Inc. (ADS), Southwestern Bell
          Telecommunications, Inc. (Telecom), Southwestern Bell Printing
          Company (SB Printing) and Southwestern Bell Enterprises, Inc.
          (Enterprises).  The Telephone Company provides telephone services
          in the states of Arkansas, Kansas, Missouri, Oklahoma and Texas
          (five-state area) and is the Corporation's largest subsidiary,
          accounting for approximately 71 percent of the Corporation's 1993
          income before extraordinary loss and cumulative effect of changes
          in accounting principles; Mobile Systems principally provides
          wireless communication services; SBC International is a holding
          company owning interests in directory, cable television and
          telecommunications businesses in Australia, Israel, Mexico and
          the United Kingdom; Yellow Pages engages principally in the sale
          of advertising for and publication of Yellow Pages and White
          Pages directories and in other directory-related activities; ADS
          engages principally in the production and distribution of non-
          Bell telephone directories and in other directory-related
          activities; Telecom is engaged in the sale of customer premises
          and private business exchange equipment; and SB Printing is
          engaged in the general directory and commercial printing
          business.

          The Corporation was incorporated under the laws of the State of
          Delaware in 1983 by AT&T as one of seven regional holding
          companies (RHCs) formed to hold AT&T's local telephone companies. 
          AT&T divested the Corporation by means of a spin-off of stock to
          its shareowners on January 1, 1984 (divestiture).  The
          divestiture was made pursuant to a consent decree, referred to as
          the Modification of Final Judgment (MFJ), issued by the United
          States District Court for the District of Columbia (Court). 

          Operations Under the MFJ

          The MFJ, as originally approved by the Court in 1982, placed
          restrictions on the types of businesses in which the Corporation
          could engage.  The principal restriction prohibits the
          Corporation from providing interexchange telecommunications
          services.  An exchange in this context refers to a Local Access
          and Transport Area (LATA), which is generally centered on a
          standard metropolitan service area or other identifiable
          community of interest.  Interexchange service refers to the
          provision of telecommunications services between exchanges.  The
          MFJ initially restricted the Corporation from providing
          information services and from manufacturing or providing
          telecommunications products, other than the provision of customer 
          premises equipment (CPE) manufactured by others.  CPE, as defined
          in the MFJ, represents equipment used on customers' premises to
          originate, route or terminate telecommunications.  The MFJ also
          initially restricted the Corporation from engaging in
          nontelecommunications lines of business.  These services and
          products are collectively known as "restricted lines of
          business".  The MFJ permits the Corporation to obtain relief from
          these restrictions upon a showing that there is no substantial
          possibility that it could use its monopoly power to impede
          competition in the specific market it seeks to enter (waiver
          standard).  

          The Department of Justice (DOJ) initiated a review of the MFJ's
          line of business restrictions in 1987.  After that review, the
          Court removed the restriction against entry into
          nontelecommunications lines of business, as well as that portion
          of the information services restriction which prohibited voice
          messaging services (VMS), electronic mail, electronic White Pages
          services and certain gateway functions (i.e., a
          telecommunications arrangement, either by video or audio, in
          which customers can communicate with many different information
          service providers). 

          In April 1990, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of
          Columbia Circuit (D.C. Circuit Court) affirmed the Court's
          decision not to remove the interexchange and manufacturing
          restrictions, but clarified the waiver standard in a manner
          beneficial to future waiver requests by the Corporation.  The
          D.C. Circuit Court also reversed the decision not to lift the
          information services restriction in its entirety, and remanded
          the issue to the Court for reconsideration under a more lenient
          public interest standard which is to apply when AT&T and the DOJ,
          the original parties to the MFJ, do not oppose relief.  In July
          1991, the Court applied this public interest standard and issued
          an order which removed the information services restriction in
          its entirety, but stayed the effectiveness of the relief it
          granted the RHCs, pending appeals.  The D.C. Circuit Court has
          affirmed the order and the United States Supreme Court (Supreme
          Court) has refused to review the matter.  Thus, the removal of
          the information services restriction on an intraexchange basis
          (within the LATA) has become final.

          Also as a result of proceedings before the Court since
          divestiture, the Corporation has been authorized to engage in the
          restricted lines of business outside the United States, subject
          to certain conditions designed to prevent an impact on United
          States markets.  The Corporation has also obtained relief from
          the Court to provide interexchange cellular services in various
          markets throughout the United States, as well as intersystem
          handoff and automatic call delivery capabilities.

               Recent Waivers Granted or Denied 

          In February 1993, the Corporation and the other RHCs were granted
          a waiver for generic international relief.  The relief allows the
          Corporation and other RHCs, through foreign telecommunications
          entities, to provide the foreign portion of international
          telecommunications traffic between the United States and any 
          foreign country and to own minority interests in international
          satellite and submarine cable facilities.  The relief granted
          allows the RHCs to pursue international opportunities without the
          need to obtain transactional relief on a country-by-country
          basis.

          Also in February 1993, the Corporation and the other RHCs were
          granted a waiver to provide interLATA cellular service for rural
          service areas (RSAs).  The relief permits clustering of RSAs with
          metropolitan service areas (MSAs), and RHC switching for
          independent adjoining RSAs, regardless of LATA boundaries.

          In September 1993, the Corporation was granted a waiver to
          purchase two cable television systems located in Montgomery
          County, Maryland and Arlington County, Virginia from Hauser
          Communications, Inc.  The relief allows the Corporation to own
          and operate certain facilities in the provision of video
          programming despite LATA boundaries.
           
          The Corporation, jointly with the other RHCs, had appealed a
          July 1990 order of the Court holding that the RHCs were not
          permitted to transport common channel signaling 7 (CCS7)
          information across LATA boundaries for handoff to interexchange
          carriers at centralized signal transport points (STPs).  CCS7 is
          the AT&T version of the internationally standardized signaling
          system which transmits signaling and service definition
          information between components of the telephone network.  The STP
          is a type of switch which routes the signaling messages within
          the signaling network.  The Court held that the MFJ requires that
          signaling information be given to the interexchange carriers in
          the LATA where the call originated, and also denied the RHCs'
          requests for waivers to establish the centralized STP service
          arrangement.  The order was affirmed by the D.C. Circuit Court,
          and in February 1993 the Supreme Court refused to review the
          decision.

               Pending Waiver Requests and Appeals

          The Corporation has initiated other requests with the Court which
          seek the removal of some of the remaining restrictions.  This
          includes a generic request, filed jointly by all the RHCs,
          seeking relief from the interexchange prohibition to provide
          wireless services without regard to geographic boundaries.  In
          addition, the Corporation has requested relief to provide
          interexchange cellular services in certain of its own regional
          markets.  The Corporation has also filed waiver requests seeking
          relief from the manufacturing restriction, to permit the design
          and development of CPE, and the provision of telecommunications
          equipment to third parties.  All of these requests are pending.  

          In June 1993, the Corporation, along with the other RHCs, filed a
          joint request for a waiver to provide information services on an
          interLATA basis.  A condition of the request is that the RHCs
          lease the interLATA transport from independent interexchange
          carriers.  Opposition briefs were filed in October 1993.

          In January 1992, the Court denied a waiver to allow Ameritech
          Corporation (Ameritech), an RHC, to receive royalties from the 
          sale to third parties of telecommunication equipment designed,
          developed and/or manufactured by the unaffiliated party with the
          financial assistance of Ameritech.  The Court also denied the
          DOJ's request for a declaratory ruling that a funding/royalty
          agreement with a firm in which an RHC has neither a significant
          equity interest nor influence over operations does not constitute
          manufacturing.  The ruling was appealed to determine whether an
          otherwise independent company over which an RHC has no operating
          control and only a minimal ownership interest, may be labelled an
          "affiliated enterprise" of the RHC under the MFJ, and whether a
          funding/royalty relationship such as that proposed by Ameritech
          is permissible under the MFJ.  In December 1993, the D.C. Circuit
          Court ruled that the MFJ bans all arrangements in which RHCs have
          a direct and continuing share in the revenues of entities engaged
          in restricted activities.  However, Ameritech's waiver request
          was remanded to the Court for further consideration and is
          pending.

          The Corporation has requested relief with regard to certain
          paging services, as described below.  Although the Corporation
          recently sold its paging services subsidiary, these requests are
          being pursued as they may have relevance to other aspects of the
          Corporation's business.  In February 1989, the Court granted a
          waiver permitting the RHCs to provide multi-LATA one-way paging
          services regardless of geographic scope, but included a condition
          requiring the interexchange links for multi-LATA paging services
          to be obtained from unaffiliated interexchange carriers.  The
          Corporation appealed that portion of the order which prohibited
          it from owning the interexchange links outside the service
          territory of the Telephone Company.  In October 1990, the D.C.
          Circuit Court reversed the Court's decision and remanded the
          matter to the Court for reconsideration.  This matter is still
          pending. 

          In January 1993, the Corporation filed a request for a waiver to
          provide interLATA paging origination and access to voice storage
          and retrieval services.  This waiver would permit the origination
          of pages from outside of LATA boundaries and permit paging
          subscribers to access their voice-mail messages from outside of a
          LATA.  This request is pending with the Court.

          Principal Services

          The Corporation provides its services through subsidiaries. These
          services (which are described more fully below) include landline
          and wireless telecommunications services, the sale of advertising
          for and publication of Yellow Pages and White Pages directories,
          the provision of customer premises, private business exchange
          (PBX) and cellular equipment, and cable television services. 
          Telecommunications services include local services, network
          access and long-distance (i.e., toll) services.  Landline
          telecommunications services are provided in the five-state area
          by the Telephone Company and in the United Kingdom by SBC
          International.  Wireless telecommunications services are provided
          by Mobile Systems.  

          Landline and wireless local services involve the transport of
          telecommunications traffic between telephones and other CPE 
          located within the same local service calling area.  Local
          services include:  basic local exchange service, extended area
          service, dedicated private line services for voice and special
          services, directory assistance and various vertical services. 
          Vertical services represent discretionary, generally
          nonregulated, services which a customer may choose to supplement
          his/her basic line, such as:  call waiting, call forwarding, call
          blocking, etc. 

          Landline and wireless toll services involve the transport of
          traffic between local calling areas and include such services as
          Wide Area Telecommunications Service (WATS or 800 services) and
          other special services.  Local calling areas are within the same
          LATA, except for certain wireless service areas in which MFJ
          waivers apply.  

          Network access services link a subscriber's telephone or other
          equipment to the transmission facilities of other non-Telephone
          Company carriers which, in turn, provide long-distance and other
          communications services.  Network access is either switched,
          which uses a switched communications path between the carrier and
          the customer, or special, which uses a direct nonswitched path.

          For financial reporting purposes, the Corporation's revenues are
          categorized as local service (principally provided by the
          Telephone Company and Mobile Systems), network access (provided
          by the Telephone Company), long-distance service (principally
          provided by the Telephone Company), directory advertising
          (provided by Yellow Pages, the Telephone Company and ADS) and
          other (including equipment sales at Mobile Systems, Telecom and
          SBC International, the Telephone Company's nonregulated products
          and services, billing and collection services for interexchange
          carriers provided by the Telephone Company, cable television
          services provided by SBC International, printing services
          provided by SB Printing, and paging services and equipment sales
          provided by Metromedia Paging Services, Inc. (Metromedia Paging)
          until it was sold in December 1993).

          The following table sets forth for the Corporation the percentage
          of total operating revenues by any class of service which
          accounted for 10 percent or more of total operating revenues in
          any of the last three fiscal years.

                                           Percentage of Total 
                                             Operating Revenues      

                                        1993       1992       1991

             Charges for local
             service:
                  Landline              37%        37%        38%
                  Wireless              12%        10%         7%

             Charges to
             interexchange         
             carriers for network
             access                     20%        20%        20% 

             Charges for long-
             distance         
             (i.e., toll) service        9%        10%        11%


          Major Customer

          See Note 14, "Segment and Major Customer Information," on page 43
          of the Corporation's annual report to shareowners for the fiscal
          year ended December 31, 1993, which is incorporated herein by
          reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).

          Government Regulation

          In the five-state area, the Telephone Company is subject to
          regulation by state commissions which have the power to regulate
          intrastate rates and services, including local, toll, private
          line and network access (both intraLATA and interLATA access
          within the state) services.  The Telephone Company is also
          subject to the jurisdiction of the Federal Communications
          Commission (FCC) with respect to foreign and interstate rates and
          services, including interstate access charges.  Access charges
          are designed to compensate the Telephone Company for the use of
          its facilities for the origination or termination of long-
          distance and other communications by non-Telephone Company
          carriers.

          Additional information relating to federal and state regulation
          of the Telephone Company is contained in the registrant's annual
          report to shareowners for the fiscal year ended December 31,
          1993, under the heading "Regulatory Environment" on page 25 which
          is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General
          Instruction G(2).

          The Corporation's recently acquired cable systems are subject to
          federal and local regulation, including regulation by the FCC and
          local franchising authorities concerning rates, service, and
          programming access.

          Principal Markets

               Telecommunications

          The Telephone Company provides its services along approximately 9
          million residential and 4 million business access lines in the
          five-state area.  During 1993, more than half of the Telephone
          Company's access line growth occurred in Texas.  In 1993, 1992
          and 1991, approximately 73 percent of the Telephone Company's
          total operating revenues were attributable to intrastate
          operations.  The intrastate operations of the Telephone Company
          represented approximately 56 percent,  57 percent and 59 percent
          of the Corporation's total operating revenues for 1993, 1992 and
          1991, respectively.  All intrastate operations of the Corporation
          (including the Telephone Company and Mobile Systems) represented
          approximately 68 percent, 67 percent and 66 percent of its total
          operating revenues in 1993, 1992 and 1991, respectively.

          At the end of 1993, Mobile Systems provided cellular services to 
          2,049,000 customers, or 5.7 out of every 100 people living in its
          service areas.  These services are provided in 28 metropolitan
          markets, including five of the nation's top 15 metropolitan
          areas, as follows:  Washington, D.C.; Chicago, Illinois; Boston,
          Massachusetts; St. Louis, Missouri; and Dallas, Texas.  Mobile
          Systems (or partnerships in which it has an ownership interest)
          is licensed to provide service in 26 RSAs and is currently
          providing service in all of these markets.  All RSAs are
          contiguous to an existing MSA or another RSA operated by Mobile
          Systems, which allows for the expansion of service in a way that
          adds value to customers' service.  Mobile Systems operates in
          certain areas under the name of Cellular One, by means of a
          partnership arrangement with McCaw Cellular Communications, Inc.
          and Vanguard Cellular Systems, Inc., which holds the Cellular One
          service mark.  These areas include both metropolitan and rural
          service areas, such as Washington, D.C.; Chicago, Illinois; and
          other service areas in Illinois, Massachusetts, Virginia and West
          Virginia. 
            
          In February 1994, the Corporation announced an agreement to
          purchase, for stock valued at $680, the domestic cellular
          business of Associated Communications Corporation, including
          cellular systems in Buffalo, Rochester, Albany and Glens Falls,
          New York.  These properties are adjacent to cellular systems in
          Syracuse, Utica and Ithaca, New York, which the Corporation
          agreed to purchase from other parties in November 1993.  These
          acquisitions will increase the number of markets served by Mobile
          Systems to 61 and increase Mobile Systems' potential customer
          base to more than 40 million.  These transactions are expected to
          close during 1994. 



               International

          In December 1990, a consortium consisting of SBC International,
          together with a subsidiary of France Telecom and a group of
          Mexican investors led by Grupo Carso, S.A. de C.V., purchased
          from the Mexican government all of the Class AA shares of
          Telefonos de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. (Telmex), Mexico's national
          telecommunications company.  The consortium has voting control of
          Telmex through its ownership of Class AA shares.  SBC
          International's interest in the Class AA shares held by the
          consortium represents approximately 5 percent of the total equity
          capitalization of Telmex.  SBC International also holds
          530,157,101 Class L shares, which have limited voting rights. 
          The Class L shares held by SBC International represent
          approximately 5 percent of the total equity capitalization of
          Telmex, bringing SBC International's total interest to
          10 percent.  Telmex provides complete landline and wireless
          telecommunications services within Mexico.  At the end of 1993,
          Telmex had 7.6 million access lines in service and provided
          cellular service to more than 195,000 subscribers.  As of
          December 31, 1993, telephone service reached approximately 41 of
          every 100 Mexican households.  For additional information
          regarding the Corporation's investment in Telmex, see Note 13,
          "Equity Investments," on page 42 of the Corporation's annual
          report to shareowners for the fiscal year ended December 31,
          1993, which is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to
          General Instruction G(2).

          SBC International cable television operations are managed by SBC
          Cable Communications Group, Ltd., and include Midlands Cable
          Communications and Northwest Cable Communications, both in the
          United Kingdom, with combined service areas including 1.1 million
          potential households.  In May 1993, the Corporation completed the
          sale of 25 percent of its United Kingdom cable operations to Cox
          Cable Communications (Cox).  The Corporation and Cox share
          management of the cable operations.

          At the end of 1993, SBC International cable television in the
          United Kingdom served approximately 80,000 subscribers.  SBC
          International's penetration rate at the end of 1993 in the United
          Kingdom was 21.9 percent.  Penetration rate is defined as the
          number of customers as a percentage of solicited households that
          have network access.  Cable operators in the United Kingdom may
          provide both cable television and local exchange service.  At the
          end of 1993, SBC International provided local exchange service to
          approximately 39,000 subscribers.

          SBC International also holds a minority interest in Golden
          Channels, a cable television provider in Israel.  Golden Channels
          holds franchises in areas containing 412,000 potential
          households.  At the end of 1993, Golden Channels served
          approximately 194,000  households and had a penetration rate (as
          defined above) of approximately 55 percent.

          In Israel and Australia, SBC International also has interests in
          companies involved in the publication of yellow pages directory
          advertising.





               Directory Publishing

          Yellow Pages publishes nearly 40 million copies of 389 classified
          directories within the Telephone Company's five-state area.  The
          ten largest revenue-producing Yellow Pages directories are
          currently published in the second half of the Corporation's
          fiscal year.  Directory advertising revenues and expenses
          associated with Yellow Pages directories are recognized in the
          month the related directory is published.

          ADS engages principally in the production and distribution of 269
          telephone directories for GTE Telephone companies throughout 29
          states of the continental United States.  ADS also publishes
          telephone directories for 17 non-Bell telephone companies, some
          of which are co-bound with GTE directories.  To a less
          significant extent, ADS produces and publishes a number of other
          directories unaffiliated with any telephone company. 

               Customer Premises Equipment and Other Equipment Sales        
             

          Telecom markets business and residential communications equipment
          through two divisions, Business Systems and Original Equipment. 
          Telecom's offerings range from single-line and cordless
          telephones to sophisticated digital PBX systems.  PBX is a
          private telephone switching system, usually located on a
          customer's premises, which provides intra-premise telephone
          services as well as access to the public switched network.  

          The Business Systems division markets a wide variety of
          telecommunications products and services to business customers in
          the Telephone Company's five-state area.  The Original Equipment
          division, through an exclusive, long-term distribution agreement
          with Conair Corporation effective April 1993, markets a full line
          of residential telephones to retailers nationwide, under the
          Freedom Phone name.  Separately, the Original Equipment division
          markets residential and business products to U.S. telephone
          companies, and internationally, in 39 countries.

          Mobile Systems markets cellular communications equipment in each
          of its service areas.

               Printing

          In February 1993, the Corporation sold the assets of the
          commercial printing operations of Gulf Printing Company (Gulf),
          including the Gulf name.  The remaining operations are continuing
          under the name "Southwestern Bell Printing Company."  SB Printing
          provides directory printing in the Telephone Company five-state
          service area, and prints more than 62 million copies of 809
          directories annually.  SB Printing maintains a sales office in
          St. Louis, Missouri, and also operates one plant in Houston,
          Texas.  SB Printing's wholly-owned subsidiary, Times Journal
          Publishing Company (Times Journal), operates two plants in
          Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, and prints smaller telephone directories
          and provides commercial printing services.

          During 1993, SB Printing was awarded a five-year contract to 
          print 15.5 million directory copies for Telmex's directory
          operations, beginning in 1994.

               Domestic Cable Television

          In February 1993, the Corporation reached an agreement to
          purchase, for $650 million, two cable television systems located
          in Montgomery County, Maryland, and Arlington County, Virginia,
          from Hauser Communications, Inc.  The purchase was closed in
          January 1994.

          In December 1993, the Corporation and Cox Cable Communications
          (Cox) entered into a non-binding Memorandum of Understanding with
          respect to the formation of a $4.9 billion partnership to own and
          operate cable television systems.  In return for a 40 percent
          general partnership interest, the Corporation would contribute
          $1.6 billion in cash or other assets within four years of
          formation.  The Corporation would have the option to increase its
          initial ownership stake to 50 percent within specified time
          frames, through additional cash or asset contributions.  Cox
          would contribute 21 cable television systems, located throughout
          the United States, based on a negotiated value of $3.3 billion,
          and would hold a 60 percent general partnership interest and a
          $1 billion preferred partnership interest.  The transaction is
          subject to completion of negotiations and regulatory approvals,
          with the formation of the partnership expected to be completed by
          late 1994.

               Paging Services

          In December 1993, the Corporation sold Metromedia Paging, which
          provided paging services in 76 markets throughout the United
          States, to Local Area Telecommunications, Inc., a New York-based
          telecommunications service company.

          Status of New Services

               Telecommunications

          During 1993, the Telephone Company continued to expand its
          offering of optional services, known as Easy Options.  These
          options include, among others:  Caller ID, a feature which
          displays the telephone number of the person calling and, by next
          year, will also display the caller's name in certain markets;
          Call Return, a feature that redials the number of the last
          incoming call; and Call Blocker, a feature which allows customers
          to automatically reject calls from a designated list of telephone
          numbers.

          Recent changes in Texas law will allow the Telephone Company to
          introduce Caller ID in its largest markets during 1994 and 1995. 
          Caller ID is now being offered in certain markets in all of the
          states in the Telephone Company's five-state area.

          The FCC has promulgated certain rules that impact the manner in
          which the Telephone Company may offer enhanced services, which
          generally include services which are more than basic transmission
          services.  Under FCC decisions known as Computer Inquiry III, the 
 
          Telephone Company is permitted to offer enhanced services either
          on its own or jointly with its affiliates, subject to
          nonstructural safeguards, designed to permit the Telephone
          Company's competitors to acquire needed network services on an
          efficient, non-discriminatory basis and to reduce the risk of
          cross-subsidization.  These safeguards include accounting and
          reporting procedures, and Open Network Architecture (ONA)
          requirements, which represent the Telephone Company's plan
          essentially to provide equal access to its network to all
          enhanced service providers.  Enhanced services are deregulated at
          the federal level, and none of the Telephone Company's state
          commissions have, as yet, asserted jurisdiction over intrastate
          enhanced services.

          In December 1991, after various court proceedings, the FCC
          slightly modified the original Computer Inquiry III nonstructural
          competitive safeguards.  The Telephone Company received FCC
          acknowledgement of its initial ONA implementation in November
          1992.  However, the current modified Computer Inquiry III
          nonstructural safeguards are subject to an appeal now pending at
          the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.

          In July 1993, Mobile Systems launched the largest digital
          deployment program in North America with commercial digital
          service in Chicago.  Digital service improves sound quality,
          provides a greater degree of privacy on individual calls,
          increases call-handling capacity of the networks and reduces
          exposure to billing fraud.  In September, Mobile Systems launched
          commercial digital service in its St. Louis market.  During 1994,
          Mobile Systems plans to provide digital service in
          Washington, D.C., Boston, Dallas-Fort Worth and the West Texas
          markets of Midland-Odessa, Abilene, Amarillo and Lubbock.  

          During March 1993, Mobile Systems introduced FreedomLink, a new
          wireless business phone system which employs cellular technology
          to provide anywhere, anytime communications, using cellular
          frequencies.   

               Voice Messaging Services

          Southwestern Bell Messaging Services, Inc. (SMSI), a subsidiary
          of  Enterprises, currently offers residential and small business
          voice messaging services in Dallas-Fort Worth, Houston, Oklahoma
          City, Tulsa, St. Louis, Kansas City, Little Rock, San Antonio and
          certain other portions of Texas.  Effective June 1, 1993, Telecom
          assumed SMSI's voice messaging services sales to medium and large
          business.

          Importance, Duration and Effect of Licenses

          The FCC authorizes the licensing of only two cellular carriers in
          each geographic market.  These cellular licenses have a standard
          duration of ten years and are renewable upon application and a
          showing of compliance with FCC use and conduct standards.

          The FCC licenses granted to Mobile Systems in Washington, D.C.;
          Baltimore, Maryland; Kansas City, Missouri/Kansas; St. Louis,
          Missouri; and Dallas, Texas all expired on October 1, 1993.  



          Renewal applications were filed in each of these markets during
          August 1993.  To date, Mobile Systems has received no competing
          applications in these markets nor have any petitions to deny been
          filed.  Final license grants are expected to be received by
          mid-1994.  Renewal applications are to be filed in the following
          markets during August 1994:  Chicago, Illinois; San Antonio,
          Texas; Boston, Massachusetts; Oklahoma City, Oklahoma; and
          Wichita, Kansas.

          Cable television systems generally are operated under
          nonexclusive permits or "franchises" granted by local
          governmental authorities.  The Corporation operates its recently
          acquired cable systems under franchises granted by Montgomery
          County, Maryland (expires May 25, 1998); Arlington County,
          Virginia (expires October 18, 2000); and the City of
          Gaithersburg, Maryland (expires November 2, 2001).  Each
          franchise is renewable upon a showing of compliance with
          established local and federal standards.





          Competition

               Telecommunications

          Information relating to competition in the telecommunications
          industry is contained in the registrant's annual report to
          shareowners for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1993, under
          the heading "Competition" on page 27 which is incorporated herein
          by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).

               International

          Most major and several minor cable operators in the United
          Kingdom have begun to offer both cable television and local
          exchange services in selected franchise service areas.  Domestic
          United Kingdom telephone companies are restricted from offering
          video entertainment over their networks until 1998.  The United
          Kingdom currently has two major domestic telephone companies.  In
          addition to cable, viewers in the United Kingdom may select
          television programming from four television stations which are
          broadcast free, or may subscribe to programming directly from
          satellite broadcasting services.  Both are sources of programming
          for cable companies.

               Directory Publishing

          Yellow Pages faces competition from numerous directory publishing
          companies as well as other advertising media.  There are 42 other
          directory publishers in the five-state area producing yellow page
          directories. 

          ADS publishes the majority of its directories under a long-term
          contract with GTE/Contel.  ADS also faces competition from other
          publishers and non-directory advertising media.

               Voice Messaging Services

          SMSI and Telecom face competition in each market in which voice
          messaging services are offered.  Competition is primarily from
          telephone answering services and other voice messaging services
          providers.  In addition, answering machines and voice messaging
          equipment used as adjuncts to PBX systems provide competing
          alternatives to voice messaging services. 

               Customer Premises Equipment

          Telecom faces significant price competition from numerous
          companies within both its Business Systems division and Original
          Equipment division.

               Printing

          SB Printing and its subsidiary, Times Journal, engage in general
          directory and commercial printing and face significant
          competition in each of these operations.  In the United States
          and Canada, there are at least seven large directory printing
          companies and over 100 large commercial printing companies in
          direct competition with SB Printing.





          Research and Development

          The majority of company-sponsored basic and applied research
          activities are conducted at Bell Communications Research, Inc.
          (Bellcore).  The Telephone Company owns a one-seventh interest in
          Bellcore along with the other six RHCs.  Bellcore is also the
          coordinator for the federal government's telecommunications
          requirements on national security and emergency preparedness.

          Basic and applied research is also conducted at Southwestern Bell
          Technology Resources, Inc. (TRI), a subsidiary of the
          Corporation.  TRI provides technology planning and assessment
          services to the Corporation and its subsidiaries.

          Employees

          As of January 31, 1994, the Corporation and its subsidiaries
          employed 59,040 persons.  Approximately 67 percent of the
          employees are represented by the Communications Workers of
          America (CWA).  Effective in August 1992, a three-year contract
          was negotiated between the CWA and the Telephone Company. 
          Effective in December 1992, a three-year contract was negotiated
          between the CWA and Yellow Pages.  These contracts will be
          subject to renegotiation in mid-1995.  In March 1991, Telecom
          negotiated a three-year contract with the CWA.  This contract
          will be subject to renegotiation in 1994.  The CWA also
          represents a minor number of employees in other subsidiaries of
          the Corporation.

          Item 2.  Properties.

          The properties of the Corporation do not lend themselves to
          description by character and location of principal units. 
          Ninety-two percent of the property, plant and equipment of the
          Corporation is owned by the Telephone Company.  At December 31,
          1993, network access lines represented 45 percent of the
          Telephone Company's investment in telephone plant; central office
          equipment represented 36 percent; land and buildings represented
          10 percent; other miscellaneous property, comprised principally
          of furniture and office equipment and vehicles and other work
          equipment, represented 7 percent; and information
          origination/termination equipment represented 2 percent.

          Item 3.  Legal Proceedings.

          Not applicable.

          Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.

          No matter was submitted to a vote of shareowners in the fourth
          quarter of the fiscal year covered by this report.






           Executive Officers of the Registrant as of January 31,
           1994.
                   Name         Age             Position         Held
                                                                 Since

           Edward E. Whitacre    52      Chairman and            1-90
           Jr.                           Chief Executive
                                         Officer

           James R. Adams        54      Group President         7-92

           Robert A. Dickemper   50      Senior Vice             7-93
                                         President-
                                         Staff/Administration

           William E. Dreyer     55      Senior Executive Vice   7-93
                                         President-External
                                         Affairs 

           James D. Ellis        50      Senior Executive Vice   3-89
                                         President and General
                                         Counsel

           Charles E. Foster     57      Group President         10-90

           Richard A. Harris     53      Senior Executive Vice   10-90
                                         President- Human
                                         Resources

           James S. Kahan        46      Senior Vice             7-93
                                         President-  Strategic
                                         Planning and
                                         Corporate Development 

           Donald E. Kiernan     53      Senior Vice             7-93
                                         President, Treasurer
                                         and Chief Financial
                                         Officer

           Robert G. Pope*       58      Vice Chairman of        7-93
                                         Southwestern Bell
                                         Corporation and
                                         President and 
                                         Chief Executive
                                         Officer of
                                         Southwestern Bell
                                         Telephone Company

                       


          *Mr. Robert G. Pope has announced his intention to retire
          effective March 31, 1994.





          All of the above Executive Officers have held high-level
          managerial positions with the Corporation, its subsidiaries or
          former affiliates for more than the past five years, except for
          Messrs. Kiernan and Kahan who have held such high-level
          managerial positions since May 1990 and January 1992,
          respectively.  Prior to their appointments as Executive Officers,
          Mr. Kiernan was a partner with Ernst & Young and Mr. Kahan held
          responsible managerial positions with the Corporation.  Officers
          of the Corporation are appointed by the Corporation's Board of
          Directors.  Officers are not appointed to a fixed term of office
          but hold office until their successors are elected and qualified.

                                       PART II

          Items 5 through 8.

          The information required by these Items is included in the "Stock
          Performance" section on page 1, page 20 through page 43 and in
          the "Stock Data" section on the back cover of the registrant's
          annual report to shareowners for the fiscal year ended December
          31, 1993.  Such information is incorporated herein by reference
          pursuant to General Instruction G(2).

          Item 9.  Changes in and disagreements with Accountants on
          Accounting and Financial Disclosure.

          No changes in accountants or disagreements with accountants on
          any accounting or financial disclosure matters occurred during
          the period covered by this report.

                                       PART III

          Items 10 through 13.

          Information regarding executive officers required by Item 401 of
          Regulation S-K is furnished in a separate disclosure in Part I of
          this report since the registrant did not furnish such information
          in its definitive proxy statement prepared in accordance with
          Schedule 14A.

          The other information required by these Items is included in the
          registrant's definitive proxy statement, dated March 18, 1994,
          from page 4 through page 9 and beginning with the last paragraph
          on page 16 through page 24 and is incorporated herein by
          reference pursuant to General Instruction G(3).





                                       PART IV

          Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on
          Form 8-K.

          (a)  Documents filed as a part of the report:
                                                                   Page 
                                                                            
                    (1)  Consolidated Financial Statements:                 
                      
               Consolidated Statements of Income                      *
               Consolidated Balance Sheets                            *
               Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows                  *
               Consolidated Statements of Shareowners' Equity         *
               Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements             *
               Report of Independent Auditors                         *
          __________

          *    Incorporated herein by reference to the appropriate portions
               of the registrant's annual report to shareowners for the
               fiscal year ended December 31, 1993.  (See Part II.)

                                                                            
                                                                 Page
               (2)Financial Statement Schedules:
                    Consent of Independent Auditors                25
                    V-Property, Plant and Equipment                26
                    VI-Accumulated Depreciation, Depletion 
                     and Amortization of Property, Plant and
                     Equipment                                     30
                    VIII-Valuation and Qualifying Accounts         31
                    X-Supplementary Income Statement Information   33


               Financial statement schedules other than those listed above
               have been omitted because the required information is
               contained in the financial statements and notes thereto, or
               because such schedules are not required or applicable.

               (3) Exhibits:

               Exhibits identified in parentheses below, on file with the
               SEC, are incorporated by reference as exhibits hereto.  

               3-a  Certificate of Incorporation of Southwestern Bell
                    Corporation (restated), dated June 6, 1988.  (Exhibit
                    3-a to Form 10-K for 1988, File 1-8610.)

               3-b  Bylaws of Southwestern Bell Corporation, dated June 28,
                    1991. (Exhibit 3-b to Form 10-Q for the second quarter
                    1991, File 1-8610.)

               4-a  Pursuant to Regulation S-K, Item 601(b)(4)(iii)(A), no
                    instrument which defines the rights of holders of long
                    and intermediate term debt of the registrant or any of
                    its consolidated subsidiaries is filed herewith. 
                    Pursuant to this regulation, the registrant hereby
                    agrees to furnish a copy of any such instrument to the
                    SEC upon request.





               4-b  Support Agreement dated November 10, 1986, between
                    Southwestern Bell Corporation and Southwestern Bell
                    Capital Corporation.  (Exhibit 4-b to Registration
                    Statement No. 33-11669)

               4-c  Form of Rights Agreement, dated as of January 27, 1989,
                    between Southwestern Bell Corporation and American
                    Transtech, Inc., the Rights Agent, which includes as
                    Exhibit B thereto the form of Rights Certificate. 
                    (Exhibit 4-a to Form 8-A dated February 9, 1989,
                    File 1-8610.)

               4-d  Amendment of Rights Agreement, dated as of August 5,
                    1992, between Southwestern Bell Corporation, American
                    Transtech, Inc., and The Bank of New York, the
                    successor Rights Agent, which includes the Form of
                    Rights Certificate as an attachment identified as
                    Exhibit B.  (Exhibit 4-a to Form 8-K, dated August 7,
                    1992, File 1-8610.)

               4-e  Form of Rights Certificate (included in the attachment
                    to the Amendment of Rights Agreement and identified as
                    Exhibit B.)  (Exhibit 4-b to Form 8-K, dated August 7,
                    1992, File 1-8610.)

               10-a Southwestern Bell Corporation Senior Management Short
                    Term Incentive Plan, revised January 1, 1991. 
                    (Exhibit 10-a to Form 10-K for 1990, File 1-8610.)

               10-b Southwestern Bell Corporation Senior Management Long
                    Term Incentive Plan, revised effective January 1, 1993. 
                    (Exhibit 10-b to Form 10-K for 1992, File 1-8610.)

               10-c Southwestern Bell Corporation Senior Management
                    Survivor Benefit Plan.  (Exhibit 10-c to Form 10-K for
                    1986, File 1-8610.)

               10-d Southwestern Bell Corporation Senior Management
                    Supplemental Retirement Income Plan, revised effective
                    January 1, 1993.  (Exhibit 10-d to Form 10-K for 1992,
                    File 1-8610.)

               10-e Southwestern Bell Corporation Senior Management
                    Deferred Compensation Plan Effective for Units of
                    Participation Having a Unit Start Date Prior to January
                    1, 1988, revised October 27, 1989.  (Exhibit 10-e to
                    Form 10-K for 1989, File 1-8610.)

               10-f Southwestern Bell Corporation Senior Management
                    Deferred Compensation Plan of 1988 Effective for Units
                    of Participation Having a Unit Start Date of January 1,
                    1988 or Later, revised and restated October 27, 1989. 
                    (Exhibit 10-f to Form 10-K for 1989, File 1-8610.)

               10-g Southwestern Bell Corporation Senior Management Long
                    Term Disability Plan.  (Exhibit 10-f to Form 10-K for
                    1986, File 1-8610.) 
 



               10-h Southwestern Bell Corporation Senior Management
                    Incentive Award Deferral Plan.  (Exhibit 10-g to
                    Form 10-K for 1986, File 1-8610.)

               10-i Southwestern Bell Corporation Senior Management
                    Financial Counseling Program.  (Exhibit 10-h to Form
                    10-K for 1986, File 1-8610.)

               10-j Southwestern Bell Corporation Senior Management
                    Executive Health Plan, effective January 1, 1987. 
                    (Exhibit 10-i to Form 10-K for 1986, File 1-8610.)

               10-k Southwestern Bell Corporation Retirement Plan for Non-
                    Employee Directors.  (Exhibit 10-t to Form 10-K for
                    1985, File 1-8610.)

               10-l Form of Indemnity Agreement, effective July 1, 1986,
                    between Southwestern Bell Corporation and each of its
                    directors and officers.  (Appendix 1 to Definitive
                    Proxy Statement dated March 18, 1987, File 1-8610.)

               10-m Form of Southwestern Bell Corporation Change of Control
                    Severance Agreements for all Officers of the
                    Corporation and certain Officers of the Corporation's
                    subsidiaries.  (Exhibit 10-p to Form 10-K for 1988,     
                    File 1-8610.)

               10-n Southwestern Bell Corporation Stock Savings Plan,
                    revised effective January 1, 1994.   (Appendix A to
                    Definitive Proxy Statement dated March 18, 1994,
                    File 1-8610.) 

               10-o Southwestern Bell Corporation 1992 Stock Option Plan. 
                    (Appendix A to Definitive Proxy Statement dated March
                    12, 1992, File 1-8610.)

               10-p Key Executive Officer Short Term Incentive Plan. 
                    (Appendix B to Definitive Proxy Statement dated March
                    18, 1994, File 1-8610.)

               12   Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges.

               13   Portions of Southwestern Bell Corporation's annual
                    report to shareowners for the fiscal year ended
                    December 31, 1993 which are incorporated by reference.  

               21   Subsidiaries of Southwestern Bell Corporation 

               23   Consent of Independent Auditors

               24   Powers of Attorney 

               99-a Annual Report on Form 11-K for the Southwestern Bell
                    Corporation Savings Plan for Salaried Employees for the
                    year 1993 to be filed under Form 10-K/A 

               99-b Annual Report on Form 11-K for the Southwestern Bell
                    Corporation Savings and Security Plan (Non-Salaried 
 
                    Employees) for the year 1993 to be filed under Form 10-
                    K/A 

          Southwestern Bell Corporation will furnish to shareowners upon
          request, and without charge, a copy of the annual report to
          shareowners and the proxy statement, portions of which are
          incorporated by reference in the Form 10-K.  Southwestern Bell
          Corporation will furnish any other exhibit at cost.

          (b)Reports on Form 8-K:

               On December 7, 1993, Southwestern Bell Corporation filed a
               Current Report on Form 8-K, dated December 6, 1993,
               reporting on Item 5, Other Events. 
 
       
       
      



       

      



       
 







                             SOUTHWESTERN BELL CORPORATION
               SCHEDULE X - SUPPLEMENTARY INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION
                                 Dollars in Millions


                                                          Column B - 
                                                           Charged to
                          Column A - Item                   Expense


                                      Year 1993
             1.   Maintenance and repairs                   $1,530.4

             2.   Taxes, other than payroll and
                      income taxes
                              Property                      $  306.4

                              Gross receipts                $  179.0

             3.   Advertising costs                         $   89.5


                                      Year 1992

             1.   Maintenance and repairs                   $1,676.9

             2.   Taxes, other than payroll and 
                     income taxes
                              Property                      $  283.1

                              Gross receipts                $  148.8

             3.  Advertising costs                          $   85.0


                                      Year 1991
             1.   Maintenance and repairs                   $1,534.6

             2.   Taxes, other than payroll and
                        income taxes 

                              Property                      $  274.9

                              Gross receipts                $  131.3
             3.   Advertising costs                         $   79.0 


                                      SIGNATURES


             Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
          Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused
          this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
          thereunto duly authorized, on the 18th day of March, 1994.
                              
                                           SOUTHWESTERN BELL CORPORATION


                                           By /s/ Donald E. Kiernan  
                                           (Donald E. Kiernan 
                                           Senior Vice President, Treasurer 
                                           and Chief Financial Officer)

             Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act
          of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following
          persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on
          the date indicated.

          Principal Executive Officer:
             Edward E. Whitacre Jr.*
             Chairman and
             Chief Executive Officer

          Principal Financial and
           Accounting Officer:
             Donald E. Kiernan
             Senior Vice President, Treasurer 
             and Chief Financial Officer
           
                                           /s/ Donald E. Kiernan 
          Directors:                       (Donald E. Kiernan, as attorney-
                                           in-fact and on his own behalf as
                                           Principal Financial Officer
          Edward E. Whitacre Jr.*          and Principal
          Clarence C. Barksdale*           Accounting Officer)
          James E. Barnes*
          Jack S. Blanton*
          August A. Busch III*                      March 18, 1994
          Ruben R. Cardenas*
          Martin K. Eby, Jr.*
          Tom C. Frost*
          Jess T. Hay*
          Bobby R. Inman*
          Charles F. Knight*
          Sybil C. Mobley*
          Haskell M. Monroe, Jr.*
          Robert G. Pope *
          Carlos Slim Helu*
          Patricia P. Upton *

          * by power of attorney 


                                    EXHIBIT INDEX



             Exhibits identified in parentheses below, on file with the
             SEC, are incorporated by reference as exhibits hereto.  

              3-a   Certificate of Incorporation of Southwestern Bell
                    Corporation (restated), dated June 6, 1988.  (Exhibit
                    3-a to Form 10-K for 1988, File 1-8610.)

              3-b   Bylaws of Southwestern Bell Corporation, dated June 28,
                    1991. (Exhibit 3-b to Form 10-Q for the second quarter
                    1991, File 1-8610.)

              4-a   Pursuant to Regulation S-K, Item 601(b)(4)(iii)(A), no
                    instrument which defines the rights of holders of long
                    and intermediate term debt of the registrant or any of
                    its consolidated subsidiaries is filed herewith. 
                    Pursuant to this regulation, the registrant hereby
                    agrees to furnish a copy of any such instrument to the
                    SEC upon request.

              4-b   Support Agreement dated November 10, 1986, between
                    Southwestern Bell Corporation and Southwestern Bell
                    Capital Corporation.  (Exhibit 4-b to Registration
                    Statement No. 33-11669)

              4-c   Form of Rights Agreement, dated as of January 27, 1989,
                    between Southwestern Bell Corporation and American
                    Transtech, Inc., the Rights Agent, which includes as
                    Exhibit B thereto the form of Rights Certificate. 
                    (Exhibit 4-a to Form 8-A dated February 9, 1989,
                    File 1-8610.)

              4-d   Amendment of Rights Agreement, dated as of August 5,
                    1992, between Southwestern Bell Corporation, American
                    Transtech, Inc., and The Bank of New York, the
                    successor Rights Agent, which includes the Form of
                    Rights Certificate as an attachment identified as
                    Exhibit B.  (Exhibit 4-a to Form 8-K, dated August 7,
                    1992, File 1-8610.)

              4-e   Form of Rights Certificate (included in the attachment
                    to the Amendment of Rights Agreement and identified as
                    Exhibit B.)  (Exhibit 4-b to Form 8-K, dated August 7,
                    1992, File 1-8610.)

              10-a  Southwestern Bell Corporation Senior Management Short
                    Term Incentive Plan, revised January 1, 1991. 
                    (Exhibit 10-a to Form 10-K for 1990, File 1-8610.)

              10-b  Southwestern Bell Corporation Senior Management Long
                    Term Incentive Plan, revised effective January 1, 1993. 
                    (Exhibit 10-b to Form 10-K for 1992, File 1-8610.)

              10-c  Southwestern Bell Corporation Senior Management
                    Survivor Benefit Plan.  (Exhibit 10-c to Form 10-K for
                    1986, File 1-8610.)




              10-d  Southwestern Bell Corporation Senior Management
                    Supplemental Retirement Income Plan, revised effective
                    January 1, 1993.  (Exhibit 10-d to Form 10-K for 1992,
                    File 1-8610.)

              10-e  Southwestern Bell Corporation Senior Management
                    Deferred Compensation Plan Effective for Units of
                    Participation Having a Unit Start Date Prior to January
                    1, 1988, revised October 27, 1989.  (Exhibit 10-e to
                    Form 10-K for 1989, File 1-8610.)

              10-f  Southwestern Bell Corporation Senior Management
                    Deferred Compensation Plan of 1988 Effective for Units
                    of Participation Having a Unit Start Date of January 1,
                    1988 or Later, revised and restated October 27, 1989. 
                    (Exhibit 10-f to Form 10-K for 1989, File 1-8610.)

              10-g  Southwestern Bell Corporation Senior Management Long
                    Term Disability Plan.  (Exhibit 10-f to Form 10-K for
                    1986, File 1-8610.)

              10-h  Southwestern Bell Corporation Senior Management
                    Incentive Award Deferral Plan.  (Exhibit 10-g to Form
                    10-K for 1986, File 1-8610.)

              10-i  Southwestern Bell Corporation Senior Management
                    Financial Counseling Program.  (Exhibit 10-h to Form
                    10-K for 1986, File 1-8610.)

              10-j  Southwestern Bell Corporation Senior Management
                    Executive Health Plan, effective January 1, 1987. 
                    (Exhibit 10-i to Form 10-K for 1986, File 1-8610.)

              10-k  Southwestern Bell Corporation Retirement Plan for Non-
                    Employee Directors.  (Exhibit 10-t to Form 10-K for
                    1985, File 1-8610.)

              10-l  Form of Indemnity Agreement, effective July 1, 1986,
                    between Southwestern Bell Corporation and each of its
                    directors and officers.  (Appendix 1 to Definitive
                    Proxy Statement dated March 18, 1987, File 1-8610.)

              10-m  Form of Southwestern Bell Corporation Change of Control
                    Severance Agreements for all Officers of the
                    Corporation and certain Officers of the Corporation's
                    subsidiaries.  (Exhibit 10-p to Form 10-K for 1988,     
                    File 1-8610.)

              10-n  Southwestern Bell Corporation Stock Savings Plan,
                    revised effective January 1, 1994.  (Appendix A to
                    Definitive Proxy Statement dated March 18, 1994,
                    File 1-8610.)

              10-o  Southwestern Bell Corporation 1992 Stock Option Plan. 
                    (Appendix A to Definitive Proxy Statement dated March
                    12, 1992, File 1-8610.)

              10-p  Key Executive Officer Short Term Incentive Plan. 
                    (Appendix B to Definitive Proxy Statement dated March
                    18, 1994, File 1-8610.) 
 


              12    Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges.

              13    Portions of Southwestern Bell Corporation's annual
                    report to shareowners for the fiscal year ended
                    December 31, 1993 which are incorporated by reference.  

              21    Subsidiaries of Southwestern Bell Corporation 

              23    Consent of Independent Auditors

              24    Powers of Attorney 

              99-a  Annual Report on Form 11-K for the Southwestern Bell
                    Corporation Savings Plan for Salaried Employees for the
                    year 1993 to be filed under Form 10-K/A 

              99-b  Annual Report on Form 11-K for the Southwestern Bell
                    Corporation Savings and Security Plan (Non-Salaried
                    Employees) for the year 1993 to be filed under 
                    Form 10-K/A 



