10-K


0001.htm

ANNUAL REPORT

10-K

FORM 10-K

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

(Mark One)

|X|

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)

OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For fiscal
year ended December 31, 2000

OR

|_|

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)

OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the
transition period
from

to

Commission File Number: 1-8610

SBC
COMMUNICATIONS INC.

Incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware

I.R.S. Employer Identification Number 43-1301883

175 E. Houston, San Antonio, Texas 78205-2233

Telephone Number 210-821-4105

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: (See attached Schedule A)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None.

Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section
13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12
months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such
reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90
days.

Yes

X

No _____

Indicate by check mark if
disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not
contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. (    )

Based on composite closing
sales price of $47.700 per share on February 28, 2001, the aggregate market
value of all voting and non-voting stock held by non-affiliates was
$160,900,329,871

As of February 28, 2001,
3,374,283,566 shares of Common Stock were outstanding.

DOCUMENTS
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

(1)
Portions of SBC Communications Inc.‘s Annual Report to Shareowners for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 2000 (Parts I and II).

(2)
Portions of SBC Communications Inc.‘s Notice of 2001 Annual Meeting and
Proxy Statement dated on or about March 12, 2001 (Parts III and IV).

SCHEDULE A

Securities Registered Pursuant To Section 12(b) Of The Act:

Name of each exchange

Title of each class

on which registered

Common Shares (Par Value $1.00 Per Share)                 New York, Chicago and Pacific
                                                          Stock Exchanges

7.75% Exchangeable Notes,                                 New York Stock Exchange
 Due March 15, 2001

8.50% Pacific Telesis Group Corporation-                  New York Stock Exchange
 obligated mandatorily redeemable preferred
 securities of subsidiary trusts

6.875% Fifty Year Southwestern Bell                       New York Stock Exchange
 Telephone Company Debentures,
 Due March 31, 2048


Item

Page

PART I

1.

Business

..................................................................       4
2.

Properties

................................................................      16
3.

Legal Proceedings

.........................................................      16
4.

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

.......................      16

Executive Officers of the Registrant

..........................................      17

                                                 PART II

5.

Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related

Stockholder Matters

.......................................................      18
6.

Selected Financial and Operating Data

......................................     18
7.

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition

and Results of Operations

.................................................      18
7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

................      18
8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

...............................      18
9.

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting

and Financial Disclosure

..................................................      18

                                                 PART III

10.

Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

.......................      19
11.

Executive Compensation

...................................................      19
12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

...........      19
13.

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

...........................      19

                                                 PART IV

14.

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K

.........      20

PART I

ITEM 1.

BUSINESS

GENERAL

SBC Communications Inc.
(SBC) is a holding company incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware
in 1983 and has its principal executive offices at 175 E. Houston,
San Antonio, Texas 78205-2233 (telephone number 210-821-4105). SBC
maintains an Internet site at http://www.sbc.com. (This web site address is for
information only and is not intended to be an active link or to incorporate any
web site information into this document.)

Throughout this document SBC is referred to as "we" or "SBC".

History

SBC was formed as one of
several regional holding companies created to hold AT&T Corp.‘s
(AT&T) local telephone companies. On January 1, 1984, SBC was spun-off from
AT&T pursuant to an anti-trust consent decree, becoming an independent
publicly traded telecommunications services provider. At formation, we primarily
operated in five southwestern states. SBC subsidiaries merged with Pacific
Telesis Group (PAC) in 1997, Southern New England Telecommunications Corporation
(SNET) in 1998 and Ameritech Corporation (Ameritech) in 1999, thereby expanding
our wireline operations into a total of 13 states. Since we were formed, we have
implemented plans to develop and expand into innovative new service and product
offerings and to deliver those offerings, along with many other new services, to
new national and global markets. Our strategy to enter new markets has been
through mergers and acquisitions of complementary businesses, strategic
partnerships, and the development of our global communications network. Our
services and products are marketed under several established brands including
Ameritech, Nevada Bell, Pacific Bell, SBC Telecom, SNET, Southwestern Bell, and
our newly formed joint venture with BellSouth Corporation (BellSouth), Cingular
Wireless (Cingular).

Scope

We rank among the largest
providers of telecommunications services in the United States and the world.
Through our subsidiaries, we provide a comprehensive offering of communications
services and products in the United States and have investments in more than 20
countries. We offer our services and products to businesses and consumers, as
well as other providers of telecommunications services.

The services and products
that we offer vary by market, and include: local exchange services, wireless
communications, long distance services, Internet services, cable television
services, telecommunications equipment, messaging, paging, and directory
advertising and publishing. We group our operating subsidiaries as follows,
corresponding to our operating segments for financial reporting purposes:

wireline subsidiaries provide primarily land and wire based services,

wireless subsidiaries hold our investment in Cingular, which provides primarily radio wave based services,

directory subsidiaries provide services related to directory advertising and publishing,

international subsidiaries hold investments in foreign entities outside of the United States, and

other subsidiaries provide additional services primarily related to security monitoring (prior to 2001) and cable television services.

Our principal wireline
subsidiaries provide telecommunications services in thirteen states: California,
Texas, Illinois, Michigan, Ohio, Missouri, Connecticut, Indiana, Wisconsin,
Oklahoma, Kansas, Arkansas and Nevada (13-state area). Certain wireline local
exchange services offered in the 13-state area are provided through regulated
subsidiaries which operate within authorized regions (in-region) subject to
regulation by each state in which they operate and by the Federal Communications
Commission (FCC). Additional information relating to regulation is contained
under the heading “Government Regulation” below and in the 2000 SBC
Annual Report to Shareowners under the heading “Operating Environment and
Trends of the Business”, and is incorporated herein by reference pursuant
to General Instruction G(2).

InterLATA Long Distance

In June 2000, the FCC
granted SBC approval to offer long distance services in the state of Texas and
we began offering these services on July 10, 2000. In October 2000, we filed
applications with the FCC to offer long distance services in Kansas and
Oklahoma. In January 2001, the FCC approved these applications effective March
7, 2001, and we began offering interLATA long distance service in those states
under the Southwestern Bell brand. We continue to seek long distance approval in
our other in-region states and have filed applications with state commissions in
Arkansas, California, Missouri and Nevada.

Additional information on InterLATA Long Distance is contained in the 2000 Annual Report to Shareowners under
the heading "Trends" on page 12 which is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction
G(2).

Broadband Initiative

In 1999, as the first
post-Ameritech merger initiative, we announced a $6 billion initiative designed
to transform the company into the largest single provider of advanced broadband
services in America (Project Pronto). Project Pronto is expected to create a
vast, sophisticated broadband platform that will allow high-speed voice, data
and video services to be provided via Digital Subscriber Line (DSL) services.
Project Pronto is expected to be substantially completed by the end of 2003, and
was approximately 34 percent completed at December 31, 2000. At December 31,
2000 we had approximately 767,000 subscribers.

Additional information on
Project Pronto is contained in the 2000 Annual Report to Shareowners under the
heading “Trends” on page 12 which is incorporated herein by reference
pursuant to General Instruction.

National Expansion

In 1999, we began to
implement a “National-Local” strategy in conjunction with our
acquisition of Ameritech. Under the National-Local strategy, we plan to offer
local exchange services in 30 new markets across the country. We introduced
service in five new markets during 2000 (Boston, Fort Lauderdale, Miami, New
York, and Seattle) and two additional markets (Atlanta and Denver) in February
2001 and are required by the FCC to enter into the remaining 23 markets by April
2002.

Additional information on
National Expansion is contained in the 2000 Annual Report to Shareowners under
the heading “Regulatory Environment” on page 12 which is incorporated
herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).

Business
Combinations

Ameritech Corporation

In October 1999, an SBC
subsidiary merged with Ameritech, and Ameritech became a wholly owned subsidiary
of SBC. The transaction has been accounted for as a pooling of interests and a
tax-free reorganization.

Southern New England Telecommunications Corporation

In October 1998, an SBC
subsidiary merged with SNET, and SNET became a wholly owned subsidiary of SBC.
The transaction has been accounted for as a pooling of interests and a tax-free
reorganization.

Pacific Telesis Group

In April 1997, an SBC
subsidiary merged with PAC, and PAC became a wholly owned subsidiary of SBC. The
transaction has been accounted for as a pooling of interests and a tax-free
reorganization.

Post-merger initiatives

As a result of the
Ameritech, SNET and PAC mergers, we significantly integrated operations and
consolidated some administrative and support functions. We recognized charges
during 1999, 1998 and 1997 in connection with these merger initiatives. Charges
arising out of the mergers relating to relocation, retraining and other effects
of consolidating certain operations are being recognized in the periods those
charges occur.

Additional information on
business combinations is contained in Note 2 of the 2000 SBC Annual Report to
Shareowners, and is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General
Instruction G(2).

BUSINESS
OPERATIONS

Operating
Segments

In the fourth quarter of
2000, we adjusted our segment reporting structure to reflect the current
management of our business. We now have five reportable segments: wireline,
wireless, directory, international and other. The primary change was to
eliminate the information and entertainment segment by moving Ameritech’s
cable television operations and recently sold security services to the other
segment, and to display all directory operations as a separate segment. We
evaluate performance based on income before income taxes adjusted for normalized
(e.g., one-time) items.

Additional information
about our reportable segments, including financial details and normalizing
items, is included under the heading “Segment Results” on pages 6
through 10 and in Note 8 of the 2000 SBC Annual Report to Shareowners, and is
incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).

Wireline

Wireline is SBC’s
largest operating segment, providing approximately 78 percent of our normalized
operating revenues in 2000. The wireline segment provides landline
telecommunications services, including local, network access and long distance
services, messaging, Internet services, sells customer premises and private
branch exchange (PBX) equipment, and markets satellite television services. The
wireline segment provides services through our wireline telecommunications
subsidiaries to approximately 36.8 million residential and
23.8 million business access lines in our 13-state area.

Services and Products

Local exchange services

- Local exchange services include traditional dial tone primarily used to
make or receive voice, fax, or analog modem calls from a residence or business.
We also offer this service on a wholesale basis to competitors. At
December 31, 2000, we provided wholesale services to approximately 1.6
million access lines. Other local services include certain extended area
service, directory assistance and operator services.

Vertical services include
custom calling services such as Caller ID, Call Waiting, voice mail and other
enhanced services. These features allow telephone users to manage their local
services with enhanced features such as displaying the number and/or name of
callers, signaling to the telephone user that additional calls are incoming, and
to send and receive voice messages.

Data services -

Revenues from data services may be classified as local, network access or long
distance revenues and include high-speed data communication services used for
transporting digital traffic from one computer system to another. Data services
include digital products categorized into three basic categories:

Switched Transport
services such as Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN), Frame Relay, and
DSL;

Dedicated Transport services such as Digital Services and Synchronous
Optical Network (SONET); and

Application and Data Communications services
which include Internet access and network integration.

ISDN transmits voice,
video, and data over a single line in support of a wide range of applications,
including Internet access. Frame Relay is a fast packet switching technology
that allows data to travel in individual packets, or pieces, of information. DSL
is a digital modem technology that converts existing twisted-pair telephone
lines into access paths for multimedia and high-speed data communications to the
Internet or private networks. DSL allows customers to simultaneously make a
phone call and access information via the Internet or an office local area
network. Digital Services are high-speed dedicated digital circuits offered with
various speeds of transport. SONET provides customer access to our backbone
network at very high speeds. Network integration services include installation
of business data systems, local area networking, and other data networking
solutions.

Sterling Acquisition

In March 2000, we acquired
Sterling Commerce, Inc. (Sterling), a provider of electronic business
integration solutions and a provider of E-Business Integration solutions.
Sterling specializes in creating, powering and managing secure
“e-Marketplace communities” where multiple buyers and sellers can
conduct transactions immediately, exchange goods and services, facilitate
business-to-business opportunities, and share information faster and at lower
costs.

Additional information on
the Sterling Acquisition is contained in Note 15 of the 2000 SBC Annual Report
to Shareowners, and is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General
Instruction G(2).

Network access services
- -

Network access services connect a customer’s telephone or other
equipment to the transmission facilities of other carriers that provide long
distance and other communications services.

Wireline long distance
- -

Wireline long distance services primarily result from the transport of
intraLATA telecommunications traffic that is outside of a local calling area.
Federal regulation prohibits us from providing interLATA long distance services
in nine of our thirteen in-region states. We provide wireline interLATA long
distance to our customers in Connecticut, Texas, Kansas and Oklahoma. Long
distance services also include other services such as Wide Area
Telecommunications Service (WATS or 800 services) and other special services. In
addition, since 1996, we have offered wireline interLATA long distance services
to customers in selected areas outside the wireline subsidiaries’
authorized regions (out-region).

Customer premises
equipment (CPE) -

CPE and other equipment sales range from single-line and
cordless telephones to sophisticated digital PBX systems. PBX is a private
telephone switching system, usually located on a customer’s premises, which
provides intra-premise telephone services as well as access to the public
switched network.

Cable Television -

We also operate a cable television system under the SNET brand in Connecticut
that has been included in the wireline segment results. Our request to close
this business is currently under review by the Connecticut Department of Public
Utility Control and a final decision is expected in early 2001.

Internet Services -

We offer a range of Internet services and products for residences and
businesses, varying by market. Internet services offered include basic dial-up
access service, dedicated access, web hosting, e-mail, and high-speed access
services. During 2000, we formed a relationship with Prodigy Communications
Corporation (Prodigy) that combined our consumer and small business Internet
operations. We hold an approximate 43percent indirect ownership interest in
Prodigy, which we account for using the equity method of accounting.

Cisco Agreement

In April 2000, we entered
into a strategic marketing and sales alliance with Cisco Systems, Inc. (Cisco)
to accelerate delivery of broadband services to customers. Through joint
marketing and sales efforts, we will package Cisco equipment with advanced
voice, broadband data and network integration services. The alliance also
consists of a series of joint research and product development activities.

Covad Agreement

In September 2000, we
announced an agreement making Covad Communications (Covad) an in-region and
out-of-region DSL provider for SBC. We began marketing both symmetric business
service DSL and asymmetric consumer service DSL provided by Covad. The companies
are working together on network, provisioning and product planning activities
needed to support the agreement. In November 2000, we purchased a minority
ownership position (approximately 6 percent) in Covad.

Prodigy Credit Agreement

In January 2001, we
restructured our agreements with Prodigy. As part of the restructuring, we
agreed to provide a $110 million credit facility, as well as forgive a portion
of the amounts that Prodigy owed us at December 31, 2000. We recognized a
combined charge of $143 million ($89 million net of tax) in the fourth quarter
of 2000, $110 million in equity in net income of affiliates reflecting
previously unrecognized equity losses from our investment in Prodigy, and the
remainder as either a reduction of revenue or increase in operating expense. The
credit agreement will terminate on the earlier of December 31, 2003 or the
termination of the commitments. The loans will bear interest at a rate per annum
equal to the one month LIBOR rate plus 400 basis points and may be prepaid
without penalty at any time. The principal and accrued interest on all
outstanding loans are due upon termination of the credit agreement.

Additional information on
the Prodigy Agreement is contained in Note 16 of the 2000 SBC Annual Report to
Shareowners, and is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General
Instruction G(2).

Wireless

The wireless segment
provides domestic wireless telecommunications services, including local, long
distance and roaming services. Wireless services and products offered also
include certain enhanced services, paging services and wireless equipment. The
wireless operating segment provided approximately 15 percent of our operating
revenues in 2000. Due to the contribution of substantially all of our domestic
wireless operations to Cingular (discussed below), future wireless operating
results will not include revenues or expenses from the wireless joint venture,
instead we will reflect our 60 percent share of its net income as equity in net
income of affiliates.

Wireless Acquisitions

In August 2000, we acquired
wireless properties in Seattle and Spokane, Washington and Austin, Texas from
GTE Corp. for approximately $1.3 billion. This acquisition also included rural
service areas across Texas and Washington. In total these properties cover a
population of more than 7.4 million people, and include approximately 318,000
customers. These properties have been contributed to Cingular.

Cingular Wireless Joint Venture

In October 2000, SBC and
BellSouth began operations of their wireless joint venture, Cingular, which was
formed in April 2000. At December 31, 2000, Cingular serves approximately 19
million customers and in March 2001, severed approximately 20 million customers,
the second largest wireless operator in the United States. Economic ownership in
Cingular is held 60 percent by SBC and 40 percent by BellSouth, with control
shared equally. We are accounting for our interest under the equity method of
accounting.

As a condition of the joint
venture, the United States Department of Justice consent decree called for the
disposition of overlapping wireless properties in Indianapolis, Indiana and
selected Radiofone, Inc. properties in New Orleans and Baton Rouge, Louisiana.

Additional information on
Cingular is contained in Note 6 of the 2000 SBC Annual Report to Shareowners,
and is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).

Directory

The directory segment
includes advertising, yellow and white pages directories and electronic
publishing. The directory operating segment provided approximately 8 percent of
SBC’s operating revenues in 2000.

Our directory subsidiaries operate primarily in our 13-state region.

International

The international segment
includes all of our international investments. We have direct or indirect
interests in businesses located in more than 20 countries and as of December 31,
2000, have international investments with a carrying value of approximately
$12.3 billion. Our international investments are an important component of our
global strategy. Businesses include local and long distance telephone services,
wireless communications, voice messaging, data services, video services,
Internet access, telecommunications equipment, and directory publishing.

Europe

We hold a 41.6 percent
stake in Tele Danmark A.S. (Tele Danmark), Denmark’s primary full-service
communications operator. Tele Danmark has a 16.5 percent investment in Belgacom
S.A. (Belgacom) as well as investments in wireless services in Poland, the
Ukraine, Lithuania, Austria, the Netherlands and Germany. It has investments in
competitive communications providers in Sweden, Germany, Switzerland and the
Czech Republic. Tele Danmark also has investments in local telephone operations
in Hungary and an international digital transmission link through Russia, Korea
and Japan. SBC currently is able to elect six of twelve members of the Tele
Danmark Board of Directors, including the Chairman, who would cast any
tie-breaking vote.

During the fourth quarter
of 2000, Tele Danmark reached an agreement to acquire a majority interest in
diAx A.G (diAx), a wireless and long distance provider in Switzerland owned by
SBC International and diAx Holdings. This transaction closed in January 2001.

In Belgium, SBC holds a
17.5 percent stake in Belgacom, the country’s primary full-service
telecommunications operator, and effectively controls 24.4 percent of Belgacom
when combined with its stake in Tele Danmark. With approximately 5.1 million
access lines and more than 3.0 million cellular customers, Belgacom provides
local, long distance, cellular and other communications services and offers
directories and security services. Belgacom also has telecommunications
investments in France and the Netherlands.

We hold a 15 percent equity
interest in Cegetel S.A. (Cegetel), a holding company, through a joint venture
with France’s Vivendi, a French diversified public company. Cegetel owns 80
percent of Societe Francaise de Radiotelephone, a wireless carrier in France
with over 6.4 million customers. Cegetel offers both mobile and fixed line
services.

In Germany, through our
investment in Tele Danmark, we indirectly own 41.6 percent of Talkline Group, a
cellular service provider and reseller. We sold our interest in Wer Liefert Was,
a leading German-based publisher of business-to-business directories for several
European countries, in December 2000.

During 2000, we sold our investment interests in MATAV, a Hungarian telecommunications company, and Netcom GSM,
a telecommunications provider in Norway.

Asia

We own a 43.6 percent stake
in TransAsia Telecommunications Inc. (TransAsia), a company that provides
cellular services in Taiwan’s southern region, headquartered in Kaohsiung.
At December 31, 2000, TransAsia served over 592,000 cellular customers.

In June 2000, we sold our
interest in two undersea communications cables between the United States and
China and Japan to Williams Communications.

North America

We have a 20 percent stake
in Bell Canada, Canada’s premier telecommunications provider. Bell Canada
offers a full range of services to more than 11.5 million residential and
business customers, including local, long distance and wireless communications,
Internet access, high-speed data services and directories.

We also own a 7.6 percent
equity share in Mexico’s largest national telecommunications provider of
wireline and wireless services, Telmex, which operates approximately 11.9
million access lines and through its spin-off cellular business, América
Móvil S.A. de C.V. (América Móvil) and serves more than 9.7
million wireless customers. Through this relationship, we have worked with
Telmex to develop an advanced network, and have helped Telmex achieve its goal
of providing enhanced telephone service throughout Mexico.

In September 2000, Telmex
announced the spin-off of its cellular business and most of its international
investments, into a new company called América Móvil. Telmex
shareholders received an equivalent number of América Móvil shares
upon commencement of trading, which occurred in February 2001. As a result, we
have an approximate 7.6 percent equity interest in America Móvil.

South America

In November 2000, we
exchanged our interest in Brazilian wireless provider ATL - Algar Telecom Leste
S.A. (ATL) for an 11.4 percent interest in Telecom Américas Ltd. (Telecom
Americas), a joint venture with América Móvil and Bell Canada
International Inc. that will provide wireless, video and data serves as well as
internet access in Brazil, Columbia, Venezuela and Argentina.

Africa/Middle East

We hold an 18 percent
ownership stake in Telkom S.A. Limited (Telkom), South Africa’s state-owned
local exchange, long distance and cellular company. Currently, Telkom serves 6.1
million access lines in South Africa, and also is developing a second national
wireless network, serving more than 3.6 million wireless customers through
Telkom’s wireless subsidiary, Vodacom.

In Israel, we owned a 19.7
percent stake in Amdocs Limited (Amdocs), a major supplier of billing and
customer service software used by telecommunications companies worldwide.

In the third quarter of
2000, we sold our investment in the Aurec companies in Israel.

Financial information about
foreign and domestic operations is included in Note 7 of the 2000 SBC Annual
Report to Shareowners, and is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to
General Instruction G(2).

Other

SpectraSite Agreement

In August 2000, SBC and
SpectraSite Communications, Inc. (SpectraSite) announced an agreement under
which we will grant the exclusive rights to sublease space on approximately
3,900 communications towers to SpectraSite. SpectraSite has also agreed to build
or buy an estimated 800 new towers for Cingular over the next five years. In
December 2000, we received the first of several incremental payments that we are
scheduled to receive over the next year. The total consideration of $1.3
billion, a combination of cash and SpectraSite common stock, will represent
prepayments on the operating leases with SpectraSite and will be recognized as
revenue over the life of the leases. Cingular will sublease space on the towers
from SpectraSite and will have expansion rights on a majority of the existing
towers. As a result of Cingular’s sublease payments to SpectraSite, which
reduces Cingular’s net income, the SpectraSite arrangements will not have a
material effect on our net income.

Security Monitoring Services

In December 2000, SBC and
GTCR Golden Rauner LLC, through its affiliate Cambridge Protection Industries
LLC (Cambridge), announced an agreement in which a Cambridge subsidiary will
acquire SecurityLink. The transaction closed in January 2001.

Cable Television Services

We offer enhanced cable
television services in the Chicago, Cleveland, Columbus and Detroit metropolitan
areas through our subsidiary Ameritech New Media, Inc. (ANM). As of December 31,
2000, ANM provided cable services to approximately 304,000 customers in
approximately 100 Midwestern communities. In 2000, ANM scaled back its
construction of additional cable networks and expansion plans for new cable
franchises and we are currently in negotiations to sell ANM.

ANM’s cable television
systems are subject to Federal, state and local regulation, including regulation
by the FCC and local franchising authorities. ANM has entered into approximately
115 cable television franchise agreements with local government authorities.
Generally, these franchise agreements are in effect for a period of 15 years,
and are transferable with regulatory approval.

MAJOR
CLASSES OF SERVICE

The following table sets
forth the percentage of consolidated total reported operating revenues by any
class of service that accounted for 10 percent or more of our consolidated total
operating revenues in any of the last three fiscal years.

Percentage of Consolidated Total

Operating Revenues


1999               1998

Landline local service

43%

39%                38%
Wireless subscriber

10%

12%                11%

Network access

20%

20%                21%

Landline local service and
network access revenues are included in the wireline segment’s results of
operations and each also exceeds 10 percent of wireline’s total operating
revenues. Wireless subscriber revenues are included in the wireless
segment’s results of operations and also exceed 10 percent of
wireless’ total operating revenues. As a result of our contribution of
substantially all of our wireless operations to Cingular in October 2000, our
reported revenues and expenses for the fourth quarter of 2000, and in future
periods, will no longer include these contributed wireless operations. Instead,
our 60 percent share of Cingular’s operations will be reported in equity in
net income of affiliates.

GOVERNMENT
REGULATION

In the in-region states, certain
of our wireline subsidiaries are subject to regulation by state commissions
which have the power to regulate, in varying degrees, intrastate rates and
services, including local, long distance and network access services. Certain
wireline subsidiaries are also subject to the jurisdiction of the FCC with
respect to interstate and international rates and services, including interstate
access charges. Access charges are designed to compensate the wireline
subsidiaries for the use of their facilities for the origination or termination
of long distance and access services by other carriers. Cable television
operations are also subject to certain FCC and state or local jurisdiction with
respect to service requirements.

Additional information
relating to Federal and state regulation of the wireline subsidiaries is
contained in the 2000 SBC Annual Report to Shareowners under the heading
“Regulatory Environment” beginning on page 12, and is
incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).

IMPORTANCE,
DURATION AND EFFECT OF LICENSES

Certain of our subsidiaries
own or have licenses to various patents, copyrights, trademarks and other
intellectual property necessary to conduct business. We also license other
companies to use this intellectual property. We do not believe that the
expiration of any of our intellectual property rights, or the nonrenewal of
those rights, would have a material adverse affect on our results of operations.

MAJOR
CUSTOMER

No customer accounted for
more than 10 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2000, 1999 or 1998.

COMPETITION

Information relating to
competition in each of our operating segments is contained in the 2000 SBC
Annual Report to Shareowners under the heading “Competition” beginning
on page 16, and is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General
Instruction G(2).

RESEARCH AND
DEVELOPMENT

The majority of our
research and development activities are related to our wireline segment. Applied
research, technology planning and evaluation services are conducted at our
subsidiary, SBC Technology Resources, Inc. We also have a research agreement
with Telcordia Technologies, formerly Bell Communications Research, Inc.

EMPLOYEES

As of January 31, 2001, we
employed 215,088 persons. Approximately two-thirds of our employees are
represented by the Communications Workers of America (CWA) and the International
Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW). Collective bargaining agreements
between the CWA and our subsidiaries expire in April 2001, with the IBEW
agreement expiring as late as 2003.

On February 5, 2001, our
telephone subsidiaries reached four tentative agreements with the CWA covering
employees in thirteen states. The tentative agreements are labor contracts for
three years and will replace the existing contracts that expire on March 31 and
April 1, 2001. The agreements include a wage increase of approximately 12.25
percent over the life of the contracts, in addition to other economic
provisions. The agreements must be ratified by CWA members covered by the
tentative agreements and this ratification vote is expected by mid-March 2001.

The IBEW represents
approximately 12,370 employees pursuant to a labor agreement expiring on June
28, 2003. However, the wages and certain other economic matters applicable to
the final two years of that agreement will be bargained prior to the end of June
2001.

RECENT
DEVELOPMENTS

In January 2001, the FCC
approved our applications to provide interLATA long distance service for calls
originating in Oklahoma and Kansas. We began offering long distance services in
these states on March 7, 2001 under the Southwestern Bell brand.

In March 2001, the Missouri
Public Service Commission approved our application to provide interLATA long
distance services for calls originating in Missouri. We plan to file our
application with the FCC to provide long distance services in Missouri in the
near future and the FCC has 90 days from the filing date to rule on our
application.

In March 2001, the Public Utility Commission
of Ohio (PUCO) authorized our Ohio subsidiary to make a dividend payment, not to exceed approximately $113 million,
to the parent company.  The PUCO will consider future dividend payments at our request.

On March 1, 2001, we reminded investors
that there are several factors that occurred in the second, third and fourth quarters of 2000,
which are discussed under "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations" in the 2000 SBC Annual Report to Shareowners, that we expect will
cause operating expenses in the first quarter of 2001 to be higher that they were in the first
quarter of 2000.  Starting in the second quarter, and through the remainder of 2001, the effect
of these factors on comparisons with the corresponding quarters of 2000 will be reduced.

CAUTIONARY
LANGUAGE CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

Information set forth in this
report contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and
uncertainties. We claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking
statements provided by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

The following factors could cause our future results to differ materially from those expressed in the
forward-looking statements:

Adverse economic changes in the markets served by SBC, or countries in which SBC
has significant investments.

Changes in available technology.

The final outcome of FCC rulemakings and judicial review, if any, of such
rulemakings, including issues relating to jurisdiction.

The final outcome of state regulatory proceedings in SBC’s 13-state area,
and judicial review, if any, of such proceedings, including proceedings relating
to interconnection terms, access charges, universal service, unbundled network
elements and resale rates, and reciprocal compensation.

Enactment of additional state, Federal and/or foreign regulatory laws and
regulations pertaining to SBC’s subsidiaries and foreign investments.

The timing of entry and the extent of competition in the local and intraLATA
toll markets in SBC’s 13-state area and SBC’s entry into the in-region
long distance market.

The impact of the Ameritech transaction, including performance with respect to
regulatory requirements and merger integration efforts.

The timing and cost of deployment of SBC’s broadband initiative also known
as Project Pronto, its effect on the carrying value of the existing wireline
network and the level of consumer demand for offered services.

The impact of the wireless joint venture with BellSouth Corporation, known as
Cingular Wireless, including marketing and product development efforts, access
to additional spectrum, technological advancements and financial capacity.

Readers are cautioned that other factors discussed in this report, although not enumerated here, also could
materially impact our future earnings.

ITEM 2.

PROPERTIES

Our properties do not lend
themselves to description by character and location of principal units. At
December 31, 2000, approximately 97 percent of our property, plant and equipment
was owned by our wireline subsidiaries. Network access lines represented
approximately 40 percent of the wireline subsidiaries’ investment in
telephone plant; central office equipment represented approximately 41 percent;
land and buildings represented approximately 9 percent; other equipment,
comprised principally of furniture and office equipment and vehicles and other
work equipment, represented approximately 7 percent; and other miscellaneous
property represented approximately 3 percent.

Substantially all of the
installations of central office equipment are located in buildings and on land
which we own. Many garages, administrative and business offices and telephone
centers are in leased quarters.

ITEM 3. LEGAL

PROCEEDINGS

We are a party to various legal
and regulatory proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. While
there can be no assurance as to the ultimate outcome of any pending proceedings,
as of the date of this report, we do not believe that any pending legal
proceedings to which we or our subsidiaries are subject are required to be
disclosed as material legal proceedings pursuant to this item.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

No matter was submitted to a vote of shareowners in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year covered by this
report.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

(As of March 12, 2001)

Name

Age

Position

Held Since

Edward E. Whitacre Jr.    59   Chairman and Chief Executive Officer                   1/1990
James W. Callaway         54   Group President                                        11/1999
Cassandra C. Carr         56   Senior Executive Vice President - External Affairs     10/1998
James D. Ellis            57   Senior Executive Vice President and General Counsel    3/1989
Charles E. Foster         64   Group President                                        7/1995
Ross K. Ireland           54   Senior Executive Vice President - Services             1/2001
Karen E. Jennings         50   Senior Executive Vice President - Human Resources      10/1998
James S. Kahan            53   Senior Executive Vice President - Corporate            7/1993
                                 Development
Donald E. Kiernan         60   Senior Executive Vice President and                    7/1993
                                 Chief Financial Officer
Forrest E. Miller         48   President and Chief Executive Officer                  10/1999
                                 (Southern New England Telecommunications
                                 Corporation)
Edward A. Mueller         53   President and Chief Executive Officer                  9/2000
                                 (Ameritech Corporation)
Stanley T. Sigman         53   President and Chief Executive Officer                  1/2001
                                 (Southwestern Bell Telephone Company)
Rayford Wilkins, Jr.      49   President and Chief Executive Officer                  9/2000
                                 (Pacific Bell Telephone Company and Nevada Bell
                                 Telephone Company)

All of the above executive
officers have held high-level managerial positions with SBC or its subsidiaries
for more than the past five years. Executive officers are not appointed to a
fixed term of office.

PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED
         STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

The number of shareowners
of record as of December 31, 2000 and 1999 were 1,148,570 and 1,038,807.
During 2000, non-employee directors acquired from SBC shares of common stock
pursuant to the Non-Employee Director Stock and Deferral Plan. Under the plan, a
director may make an annual election to receive all or part of his or her annual
retainer or fees in the form of SBC shares or deferred stock units (DSUs) that
are convertible into SBC shares. Each Director also receives an annual grant of
DSUs. During this period, an aggregate of 65,641 SBC shares and DSUs were
acquired by non-employee directors at prices ranging from $36.38 to $56.00, in
each case the fair market value of the shares on the date of acquisition. The
issuances of shares and DSUs were exempt from registration pursuant to Section
4(2) of the Securities Act. Other information required by this Item is included
in the 2000 SBC Annual Report to Shareowners under the headings “Quarterly
Financial Information” on page 44, “Selected Financial and Operating
Data” on page 4, and “Stock Trading Information” on the back
cover, which are incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General
Instruction G(2).

ITEM 6.
SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA

Information required by
this Item is included in the 2000 SBC Annual Report to Shareowners under the
heading “Selected Financial and Operating Data” on page 4 which is
incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION

Information required by
this Item is included in the 2000 SBC Annual Report to Shareowners on page 5
through page 20, which is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General
Instruction G(2).

ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Information required by
this Item is included in the 2000 SBC Annual Report to Shareowners under the
heading “Market Risk” on page 19 through page 20, which is
incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).

ITEM 8.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

Information required by
this Item is included in the 2000 SBC Annual Report to Shareowners on page 21
through page 44, which is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General
Instruction G(2).

ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING
         AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

No changes in or
disagreements with accountants have occurred on any accounting or financial
disclosure matters during the period covered by this report.

PART III

ITEM 10.
DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Information regarding
executive officers required by Item 401 of Regulation S-K is furnished in a
separate disclosure at the end of Part I of this report since the registrant did
not furnish such information in its definitive proxy statement prepared in
accordance with Schedule 14A. Other information required by this Item 10 is
included in the registrant’s definitive proxy statement, dated on or about
March 12, 2001, under the heading “Board of Directors” beginning on
page 4 and “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance”
beginning on page 36 which is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to
General Instruction G(3).

ITEM 11.
EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

Information required by
this Item is included in the registrant’s definitive proxy statement, dated
on or about March 12, 2001, under the headings “Compensation of
Directors” from page 13 through page 14, and “Compensation Committee
Interlocks and Insider Participation”, “Executive Compensation”,
“Pension Plans”, and “Contracts with Management” from page
24 through page 35, which are incorporated herein by reference pursuant to
General Instruction G(3).

ITEM 12.
SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

Information required by
this Item is included in the registrant’s definitive proxy statement, dated
on or about March 12, 2001, under the heading “Common

Stock
Ownership of Directors and Officers” on page 15, which is incorporated
herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(3).

ITEM 13.
CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

Information required by
this Item is included in the registrant’s definitive proxy statement, dated
on or about March 12, 2001, under the heading “Compensation of
Directors” from page 13 through page 14 and “Contracts with
Management” from page 34 through 35, which are incorporated herein by
reference pursuant to General Instruction G(3).

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON
FORM 8-K<>

(a) Documents filed as a part of the report:

Page

(1) Report of Independent Auditors......................................    *
          Financial Statements covered by Report of Independent Auditors:
           Consolidated Statements of Income..................................    *
           Consolidated Balance Sheets........................................    *
           Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows..............................    *
           Consolidated Statements of Shareowners' Equity.....................    *
           Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.........................    *

* Incorporated herein by reference to the appropriate portions of the
registrant’s annual report to shareowners for the fiscal year ended
December 31, 2000. (See Part II.)

Page

(2) Financial Statement Schedules:
           II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts.............................   24

Financial Statement schedules other than those listed above have been omitted because the
required information is contained in the financial statements and notes thereto,
or because such schedules are not required or applicable.

(3) Exhibits:

Exhibits identified in parentheses below, on file with the Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC), are incorporated herein by reference as exhibits hereto.
Unless otherwise indicated, all exhibits so incorporated are from
File No. 1-8610.

Exhibit

Number

3-a

Restated Certificate of Incorporation, filed with the Secretary of State of
      Delaware on April 30, 2000.

3-b   Bylaws dated April 30, 2000.  (Exhibit 3 to Form 8-K dated June 30, 2000.)

4-a   Pursuant to Regulation S-K, Item 601(b)(4)(iii)(A), no instrument which defines
      the rights of holders of long-term debt of the registrant or any of its
      consolidated subsidiaries is filed herewith. Pursuant to this regulation, the
      registrant hereby agrees to furnish a copy of any such instrument to the SEC
      upon request.

4-b   Resolutions guaranteeing certain obligations of Pacific Telesis Group. (Exhibit
      4-g to Form 10-K for 1997.)

4-c   Guaranty of certain obligations of Pacific Bell Telephone Co. and Southwestern Bell Telephone
      Co. (Exhibit 4-d to Form 10-K for 1999)

4-d   Guaranty of certain obligations of Ameritech Capital Funding Corp., Illinois Bell Telephone
      Co., Indiana Bell Telephone Co. Inc., Michigan Bell Telephone Co., The Ohio Bell Telephone Co.,
      Pacific Bell Telephone Co., Southern New England Telecommunications Corp., The Southern New
      England Telephone Co., Southwestern Bell Telephone Co., Wisconsin Bell, Inc. (Exhibit 4-e to
      Form 10-K for 1999)

10-a

Short Term Incentive Plan.

10-b  Senior Management Long Term Incentive Plan.  (Exhibit 10-b to Form 10-K for 1992.)

10-c  Supplemental Life Insurance Plan.  (Exhibit 10-c to Form 10-K for 1997.)

10-c(i)

Resolution amending the Plan, effective October 15, 2000.

10-d

Supplemental Retirement Income Plan.

10-e  Senior Management Deferred Compensation Plan (effective for Units of
      Participation Having a Unit Start Date Prior to January 1, 1988), revised
      July 30, 1993.

10-e(i)

Resolution amending the Plan, effective October 15, 2000.

10-f  Senior Management Deferred Compensation Program of 1988 (effective for Units of
      Participation Having a Unit Start Date of January 1, 1988 or later), revised
      July 30, 1993.

10-f(i)

Resolution amending the Plan, effective October 15, 2000.
               (Exhibit 10-e(i) to this Form 10-K.)

10-g  Senior Management Long Term Disability Plan.  (Exhibit 10-f to Form 10-K for 1986.)

10-h

Salary and Incentive Award Deferral Plan.

10-i  Financial Counseling Program.  (Exhibit 10-i to Form 10-K for 1997.)

10-i(i)

Resolution amending the Plan, effective October 15, 2000.
               (Exhibit 10-c(i) to this Form 10-K.)

10-j  Supplemental Health Plan.  (Exhibit 10-j to Form 10-K for 1997.)

10-j(i)

Resolution amending the Plan, effective October 15, 2000.
               (Exhibit 10-c(i) to this Form 10-K.)

10-k  Retirement Plan for Non-Employee Directors.  (Exhibit 10-k to Form 10-K for 1997.)

10-l  Form of Indemnity Agreement, effective July 1, 1986, between SBC and its
      directors and officers. (Appendix 1 to Definitive Proxy Statement dated March
      18, 1987.)

10-n  Forms of Change of Control Severance Agreements for officers of SBC and certain
      officers of SBC’s subsidiaries (Approved November 21, 1997). (Exhibit 10-n
      to Form 10-K for 1997.)

10-o

Stock Savings Plan.

10-p

1992 Stock Option Plan.

10-q  Officer Retirement Savings Plan.  (Exhibit 10-q to Form 10-K for 1997.)

10-r

1996 Stock and Incentive Plan.

10-s

Non-Employee Director Stock and Deferral Plan.

10-t  Pacific Telesis Group Deferred Compensation Plan for Nonemployee Directors.  (Exhibit 10gg to
      Form 10-K for 1996 of Pacific Telesis Group (Reg. 1-8609).)

      10-t(i)  Resolutions amending the Plan, effective November 21, 1997. (Exhibit 10-v(i) to
               Form 10-K for 1997.)

10-u  Pacific Telesis Group Outside Directors' Deferred Stock Unit Plan.  (Exhibit 10oo to
      Form 10-K for 1995 of Pacific Telesis Group (Reg. 1-8609).)

10-v  Pacific Telesis Group 1996 Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan.  (Exhibit 10qq to
      Form 10-K for 1996 of Pacific Telesis Group (Reg. 1-8609).)

      10-v(i)  Resolutions amending the Plan, effective November 21, 1997. (Exhibit 10-v(i) to
               Form 10-K for 1997.)

10-w  Pacific Telesis Group 1994 Stock Incentive Plan. (Attachment A to Pacific
      Telesis Group’s 1994 Proxy Statement filed March 11, 1994, and amended
      March 14 and March 25, 1994.)

      10-w(i)  Resolutions amending the Plan, effective January 1, 1995. (Attachment A to
      Pacific Telesis Group’s 1995 Proxy Statement, filed March 13, 1995.)

10-x  Pacific Telesis Group Nonemployee Director Stock Option Plan.  (Exhibit A to Pacific Telesis
      Group's 1990 Proxy Statement filed February 26, 1990.)

      10-x(i)  Resolutions amending the Plan, effective April 1, 1994. (Exhibit 10xx(i) to Form
      10-K for 1994 of Pacific Telesis Group (Reg. 1-8609).)

      10-y     2001 Incentive Plan.   (Appendix B to Definitive Proxy Statement dated March 12, 2001.)


Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges.

13    Portions of SBC’s Annual Report to shareowners for the fiscal year ended
      December 31, 2000. Only the information incorporated by reference into this Form
      10-K is included in the exhibit.


Subsidiaries of SBC.

23-a

Consent of Ernst & Young LLP.

23-b

Consent of Arthur Andersen LLP.


Powers of Attorney.

99-a

Report of Independent Accountants Arthur Andersen LLP.
99-b  Annual Report on Form 11-K for the SBC Savings Plan for the year 2000 to be
      filed under Form 10-K/A.

99-c  Annual Report on Form 11-K for the SBC Savings and Security Plan for the year
      2000 to be filed under Form 10-K/A.

99-d  Annual Report on Form 11-K for the Ameritech Savings and Security Plan for
      Non-Salaried Employees for the year 2000 to be filed under Form 10-K/A.

We will furnish to
shareowners upon request, and without charge, a copy of the annual report to
shareowners and the proxy statement, portions of which are incorporated by
reference in the Form 10-K. We will furnish any other exhibit at cost.

(b) Reports on Form 8-K:

On October 3, 2000, we filed a Form 8-K, reporting on Item 5. Other Events. In the
report, we reported the closing of our previously announced transaction to form
Cingular Wireless (Cingular), a wireless joint venture with BellSouth
Corporation.

Disposition of Assets and Item 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial
Information and Exhibits. In the report, we disclose information about our
contribution of assets and interest held in Cingular.

SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC.                                                                                       Schedule II - Sheet 1
                                                SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                                                         Allowance for Uncollectibles
                                                              Dollars in Millions


- --------------------------------------------------- ---------------- ------------------------------------ ------------------ -------------
                      COL. A                            COL. B                     COL. C                      COL. D           COL. E
- --------------------------------------------------- ---------------- ------------------------------------ ------------------ -------------
                                                                                  Additions
- --------------------------------------------------- ---------------- ------------------------------------ ------------------ -------------
                                                                                              (2)
                                                                            (1)             Charged
                                                      Balance at          Charged           to Other                           Balance
                                                     Beginning of      to Costs and         Accounts         Deductions       at End of
                   Description                          Period       Expenses-Note (a)     -Note (b)          -Note (c)         Period
- --------------------------------------------------- ---------------- ------------------ ----------------- ------------------ -------------
 Year 2000......................................     $ 1,099                885               264             1,217(d)        $ 1,032
 Year 1999......................................     $   810              1,136               596             1,443           $ 1,099
 Year 1998......................................     $   737                896               603             1,426           $   810

__________

(a) Excludes direct charges
and credits to expense on the statements of income and reinvested earnings
related to interexchange carrier receivables.

(b) Includes amounts previously
written off which were credited directly to this account when recovered and

      amounts related to long-distance carrier receivables which are being billed by SBC.

(c)   Amounts written off as uncollectible.

(d)   Includes $81 transferred to Cingular.

SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC.                                  Schedule II - Sheet 2
                                                SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                                                    Accumulated Amortization of Intangibles
                                                              Dollars in Millions


- -------------------------------------------------- ----------------- ------------------------------------ ------------------ --------------
                     COL. A                             COL. B                      COL. C                     COL. D           COL. E
- -------------------------------------------------- ----------------- ------------------------------------ ------------------ --------------
                                                                                   Additions
- -------------------------------------------------- ----------------- ------------------------------------ ------------------ --------------
                                                                            (1)                (2)
                                                      Balance at                             Charged                            Balance
                                                     Beginning of         Charged           to Other                           at End of
                   Description                          Period           to Expense         Accounts         Deductions         Period
- -------------------------------------------------- ----------------- ------------------- ---------------- ------------------ --------------
Year 2000......................................      $ 1,325              1,329(a)          (262)(b)         1,646(c)           $   746
Year 1999......................................      $ 1,111                378                8               172              $ 1,325
Year 1998......................................      $ 1,485                275                3               652(d)           $ 1,111

__________

(a)     Includes impairment of underlying assets at SecurityLink.

(b)     Primarily related to the transfer to Cingular.

(c)     Includes $962 transfer to Cingular and $670 related to impairment at SecurityLink.

(d) Primarily related to the disposition of SBC Media Ventures, Inc. and an impairment of an investment in
      wireless video.

SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC.                                  Schedule II - Sheet 3
                                                SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                                                           Reserve for Restructuring
                                                              Dollars in Millions

- -------------------------------------------------- ----------------- ------------------------------------ ------------------ ---------------
                     COL. A                             COL. B                     COL. C                      COL. D            COL. E
- -------------------------------------------------- ----------------- ------------------------------------ ------------------ ---------------
                                                                                  Additions
- -------------------------------------------------- ----------------- ------------------------------------ ------------------ ---------------
                                                                            (1)               (2)
                                                      Balance at          Charged           Charged                             Balance
                                                     Beginning of      to Costs and         to Other         Deductions        at End of
                   Description                          Period           Expenses           Accounts          -Note (a)          Period
- -------------------------------------------------- ----------------- ------------------ ----------------- ------------------ ---------------
Year 2000......................................      $   14                   -                -                14              $    -
Year 1999......................................      $  123                   5                -               114              $   14
Year 1998......................................      $   86                 104                -                67              $  123

__________

(a)   Includes $99 in 1999 and $30 in 1998 that was reversed to other operating expenses for amounts no longer
      required.

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized, on the 12th day of March, 2001.

SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC.

By /s/ Donald E. Kiernan

(Donald E. Kiernan

Senior Executive Vice President and

Chief Financial Officer)

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below
by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.

Principal Executive Officer:

Edward E. Whitacre, Jr.*

Chairman and

Chief Executive Officer

Principal Financial and

Accounting Officer:

Donald E. Kiernan

Senior Executive Vice President and

Chief Financial Officer

/s/ Donald E. Kiernan

(Donald E. Kiernan, as attorney-in-fact

and on his own
behalf as Principal

Financial Officer and Principal

Accounting Officer)

March 12, 2001

Directors:

Edward E. Whitacre, Jr.*                              
                                             Charles F. Knight*

Clarence C. Barksdale*                                       
                                         Lynn M. Martin*

James E. Barnes*                                        
                                                        John B. McCoy*

August A. Busch III*                                       
                                           Mary S. Metz*

William P. Clark*                                        
                                                      Toni Rembe*

Martin K. Eby, Jr.*                                        
                                                 S. Donley Ritchey*

Herman E. Gallegos*                                        
                                              Joyce M. Roche'*

Jess T. Hay*                                        
                                                                   Carlos Slim Helu'*

James A. Henderson*                                        
                                           Laura D'Andrea Tyson*

Bobby R. Inman*                                       
                                                         Patricia P. Upton*

* by power of attorney