ITEM 1.  BUSINESS AND PROPERTIES



Overview



We are an independent oil and natural gas company focused on the acquisition, development, exploration and exploitation of unconventional, onshore oil and natural gas reserves in the Permian Basin in West Texas. This basin, which is one of the major producing basins in the United States, is characterized by an extensive production history, a favorable operating environment, mature infrastructure, long reserve life, multiple producing horizons, enhanced recovery potential and a large number of operators.



We began operations in December 2007 with our acquisition of4,174net acres in the Permian Basin. AtDecember 31, 2018, our total acreage position in the Permian Basin was approximately604,367gross (461,218net) acres, which consisted primarily of approximately231,100gross (194,661net) acres in the Midland Basin and approximately232,143gross (170,205net) acres in the Delaware Basin. In addition, we, through our publicly traded subsidiary Viper Energy Partners LP, which we refer to as Viper or the Partnership, own mineral interests underlying approximately532,295gross acres and14,841net royalty acres in the Permian Basin and Eagle Ford Shale. Approximately37%of these net royalty acres are operated by us. We own Viper Energy Partners GP LLC, the general partner of Viper, which we refer to as the general partner, and we own approximately59%of the limited partner interest in Viper.



Our activities are primarily focused on horizontal development of the Spraberry and Wolfcamp formations of the Midland Basin and the Wolfcamp and Bone Spring formations of the Delaware Basin, both of which are part of the larger Permian Basin in West Texas and New Mexico. The Permian Basin is characterized by high oil and liquids rich natural gas, multiple vertical and horizontal target horizons, extensive production history, long-lived reserves and high drilling success rates.



As ofDecember 31, 2018, our estimated proved oil and natural gas reserves were992,001MBOE (which includes estimated reserves of63,136MBOE attributable to the mineral interests owned by Viper), based on reserve reports prepared by Ryder Scott Company, L.P., or Ryder Scott, our independent reserve engineers. Of these reserves, approximately65%are classified as proved developed producing. Proved undeveloped, or PUD, reserves included in this estimate are from416gross (374net) horizontal well locations in which we have a working interest, and25horizontal wells in which we own only a mineral interest through our subsidiary, Viper. As ofDecember 31, 2018, our estimated proved reserves were approximately63%oil,18%natural gas liquids and19%natural gas.



Based on our evaluation of applicable geologic and engineering data, we currently have approximately11,868gross (7,633net) identified economic potential horizontal drilling locations in multiple horizons on our acreage at an assumed price of approximately$60.00per Bbl WTI. We intend to continue to develop our reserves and increase production through development drilling and exploitation and exploration activities on this multi-year project inventory of identified potential drilling locations and through additional acquisitions that meet our strategic and financial objectives, targeting oil-weighted reserves.





Merger with Energen Corporation and Other Significant 2018 Transactions



Merger with Energen Corporation



On November 29, 2018, we completed our acquisition of Energen Corporation, or Energen, in an all-stock transaction, which we refer to as the merger. The addition of Energen’s assets increased our assets to: (i) over273,000net Tier One acres in the Permian Basin, an increase of57%from third quarter 2018 Tier One acreage of approximately174,000net acres, (ii) over7,200estimated total net horizontal Permian locations, an increase of over120%from third quarter 2018 estimated net locations, and (iii) approximately394,000net acres across the Midland and Delaware Basins.

Ajax Resources, LLC

On October 31, 2018, we acquired certain leasehold interests and related assets of Ajax Resources, LLC, which we refer to as Ajax, which acquisition included approximately25,493net leasehold acres in the Northern Midland Basin, for$900.0 millionin cash, subject to certain adjustments, and approximately2.6 millionshares of our common stock, which we refer to as the Ajax acquisition. The Ajax acquisition was effective as of July 1, 2018.










ExL Petroleum Management, LLC and EnergyQuest II LLC Acquisition

On October 31, 2018, we acquired certain leasehold interests and related assets of ExL Petroleum Management, LLC, ExL Petroleum Operating, Inc. and EnergyQuest II LLC, which included an aggregate of approximately3,646net leasehold acres in the Northern Midland Basin, for a total of$312.5 millionin cash, subject to certain adjustments. These acquisitions, which we collectively refer to as the ExL acquisition, were effective as of August 1, 2018.

Drop-down Transaction

On August 15, 2018, we sold to Viper mineral interests underlying32,424gross (1,696net royalty) acres primarily in Pecos County, Texas, in the Permian Basin, approximately80%of which are operated by us, for$175.0 million, which we refer to as the Drop-down Transaction.

Our Business Strategy



Our business strategy is to continue to profitably grow our business through the following:



•Grow production and reserves by developing our oil-rich resource base.We intend to drill and develop our acreage base in an effort to maximize its value and resource potential. Through the conversion of our undeveloped reserves to developed reserves, we will seek to increase our production, reserves and cash flow while generating favorable returns on invested capital.





•

Focus on increasing hydrocarbon recovery through horizontal development of stacked horizons.

We have been developing multiple pay intervals in the Permian Basin through horizontal drilling and believe that there are opportunities to target additional intervals throughout the stratigraphic column. Our initial horizontal wells were completed in


, and since then we have been an active horizontal driller in the basin. As of

December 31, 2018

, we are the operator of

1,193

producing horizontal wells and have a non-operated working interest in


additional wells. Of these

1,446

total horizontal wells,


wells are in the Midland Basin,


wells are in the Delaware Basin and

one

well is in the Central Basin platform. We believe that our significant experience drilling, completing and operating horizontal wells will allow us to efficiently develop our remaining inventory and ultimately target other horizons that have limited development to date. During the year ended

December 31, 2018

, we were able to drill our horizontal wells in the Midland Basin with approximately

7,500

foot lateral lengths to total depth, or TD, in an average of


days, we drilled approximately

10,000

foot lateral wells in


days and we drilled approximately

13,000

foot wells in


days. During the year ended

December 31, 2018

, we were able to drill our horizontal wells in the Delaware Basin with approximately

7,500

foot lateral lengths to total depth in an average of


days and we drilled approximately

10,000

foot lateral wells in


days. Further advances in drilling and completion technology may result in economic development of zones that are not currently viable.



•Leverage our experience operating in the Permian Basin.Our executive team, which has an average of over 25 years of industry experience per person and significant experience in the Permian Basin, intends to continue to seek ways to maximize hydrocarbon recovery by refining and enhancing our drilling and completion techniques. Our focus on efficient drilling and completion techniques is an important part of the continuous drilling program we have planned for our significant inventory of identified potential drilling locations. We believe that the experience of our executive team in deviated and horizontal drilling and completions has helped reduce the execution risk normally associated with these complex well paths. In addition, our completion techniques are continually evolving as we evaluate and implement hydraulic fracturing practices that have and are expected to continue to increase recovery and reduce completion costs. Our executive team regularly evaluates our operating results against those of other operators in the area in an effort to benchmark our performance against the best performing operators and evaluate and adopt best practices.



•Enhance returns through our low cost development strategy of resource conversion, capital allocation and continued improvements in operational and cost efficiencies.Our acreage position in the Wolfberry play is generally in contiguous blocks which allows us to develop this acreage efficiently with a “manufacturing” strategy that takes advantage of economies of scale and uses centralized production and fluid handling facilities. We are the operator of approximately89%of our acreage. This operational control allows us to manage more efficiently the pace of development activities and the gathering and marketing of our production and control operating costs and technical applications, including horizontal development. Our average76%working interest in our acreage allows us to realize the majority of the benefits of these activities and cost efficiencies.












•Pursue strategic acquisitions with substantial resource potential.We have a proven history of acquiring leasehold positions in the Permian Basin that have substantial oil-weighted resource potential. Our executive team, with its extensive experience in the Permian Basin, has what we believe is a competitive advantage in identifying acquisition targets and a proven ability to evaluate resource potential. We regularly review acquisition opportunities and intend to pursue acquisitions that meet our strategic and financial targets. During the year endedDecember 31, 2018, we completed multiple acquisitions in the Midland Basin through our acquisitions of Ajax, ExL and EnergyQuest, as well as Energen. As a result, our Midland Basin acreage footprint increased from approximately101,941net acres to approximately194,661net acres as ofDecember 31, 2018, with our Delaware Basin acreage increasing from approximately104,719net acres to approximately170,205net acres over the same period.



•Maintain financial flexibility.We seek to maintain a conservative financial position. In connection with our fall 2018 borrowing base redetermination, our borrowing base was set at$2.65 billion, and we elected a commitment amount of$2.0 billion, of which$0.5 billionwas available for borrowing as ofDecember 31, 2018. As ofDecember 31, 2018, Viper had$411.0 millionin outstanding borrowings, and$144.0 millionavailable for borrowing, under its revolving credit facility.



Our Strengths



We believe that the following strengths will help us achieve our business goals:



•Oil rich resource base in one of North America’s leading resource plays.All of our leasehold acreage is located in one of the most prolific oil plays in North America, the Permian Basin in West Texas. The majority of our current properties are well positioned in the core of the Permian Basin. Our production for the year endedDecember 31, 2018was approximately72%oil,16%natural gas liquids and12%natural gas. As ofDecember 31, 2018, our estimated net proved reserves were comprised of approximately63%oil,18%natural gas liquids and19%natural gas.





•

Multi-year drilling inventory in one of North America’s leading oil resource plays.

We have identified a multi-year inventory of potential drilling locations for our oil-weighted reserves that we believe provides attractive growth and return opportunities. At an assumed price of approximately

$60.00

per Bbl WTI, we currently have approximately

11,868

gross (

7,633

net) identified economic potential horizontal drilling locations on our acreage based on our evaluation of applicable geologic and engineering data. These gross identified economic potential horizontal locations have an average lateral length of approximately

7,200

feet, with the actual length depending on lease geometry and other considerations. These locations exist across most of our acreage blocks and in multiple horizons. Of these

11,868

locations,

6,479

are in the Midland Basin and

5,389

are in the Delaware Basin. In the Midland Basin,

2,465

are in the Lower Spraberry or Wolfcamp B horizons where we have drilled a large number of wells,

2,200

are in the Wolfcamp A or Middle Spraberry horizons where we have drilled a limited number of wells and

1,814

are in the Clearfork, Jo Mill or Cline horizons where we have drilled very few wells. Our current location count for the Lower Spraberry horizon is based on


foot to 880 foot spacing in Midland, Martin, northeast Andrews, Howard and Glasscock counties, depending on the prospect area and


foot spacing in all other counties. For the Wolfcamp B horizon, the horizontal location count is based on


foot to 880 foot spacing between wells in Midland, Martin, northeast Andrews, Howard, and Glasscock counties, and


foot spacing in all other counties. In the Wolfcamp A horizon, the horizontal location count in based on


foot to 880 foot spacing in Midland, Howard and Glasscock counties,


foot spacing in southwest Martin county and

1,320

foot spacing in other counties. The horizontal location count for the Middle Spraberry is based on


foot spacing in Midland, Martin and northeast Andrews counties and

1,320

foot spacing in other counties. In the Cline and Clearfork and Jo Mill  horizons, the horizontal location count is based on 880 foot to

1,320

foot spacing. In the Delaware Basin,

2,219

locations are in the Wolfcamp A or Wolfcamp B horizons, and

1,789

locations are in the 2nd Bone Spring or 3rd Bone Spring horizon and

1,381

locations are in other horizons including the Brushy Canyon, Avalon, 1st Bone Spring and Wolfcamp C.  The horizontal location counts are based on


foot spacing in the Wolfcamp A and Wolfcamp B horizons, and

1,320

foot spacing in the Bone Spring horizons. The ultimate inter-well spacing may vary from these distances due to different factors, which would result in a higher or lower location count. In addition, we have approximately

2,617

square miles of proprietary 3-D seismic data covering our acreage. This data facilitates the evaluation of our existing drilling inventory and provides insight into future development activity, including additional horizontal drilling opportunities and strategic leasehold acquisitions.



•Experienced, incentivized and proven management team.Our executive team has an average of over 25 years of industry experience per person, most of which is focused on resource play development. This team has a proven track record of executing on multi-rig development drilling programs and extensive experience in the Permian Basin. In addition, our executive team has significant experience with both drilling and completing horizontal










wells in addition to horizontal well reservoir and geologic expertise, which is of strategic importance as we expand our horizontal drilling activity. Prior to joining us, our Chief Executive Officer held management positions at Apache Corporation, Laredo Petroleum Holdings, Inc. and Burlington Resources.



•Favorable operating environment.We have focused our drilling and development operations in the Permian Basin, one of the longest operating hydrocarbon basins in the United States, with a long and well-established production history and developed infrastructure. We believe that the geological and regulatory environment of the Permian Basin is more stable and predictable, and that we are faced with less operational risks in the Permian Basin as compared to emerging hydrocarbon basins.



•High degree of operational control.We are the operator of approximately89%of our Permian Basin acreage. This operating control allows us to better execute on our strategies of enhancing returns through operational and cost efficiencies and increasing ultimate hydrocarbon recovery by seeking to continually improve our drilling techniques, completion methodologies and reservoir evaluation processes. Additionally, as the operator of substantially all of our acreage, we retain the ability to increase or decrease our capital expenditure program based on commodity price outlooks. This operating control also enables us to obtain data needed for efficient exploration of horizontal prospects.