ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

Overview

We are an independent oil and natural gas company currently focused on the acquisition, development, exploration and exploitation of unconventional, onshore oil and natural gas reserves in the Permian Basin in West Texas. This basin, which is one of the major producing basins in the United States, is characterized by an extensive production history, a favorable operating environment, mature infrastructure, long reserve life, multiple producing horizons, enhanced recovery potential and a large number of operators.

We began operations in December 2007 with our acquisition of 4,174 net acres with production at the time of acquisition of approximately 800 BOE/d from 34 gross (16.8 net) wells in the Permian Basin. Subsequently, we acquired approximately 47,429 additional net acres, which brought our total net acreage position in the Permian Basin to 51,603 net acres at December 31, 2012. We are the operator of approximately 99% of this acreage. As of December 31, 2012, we had drilled 193 gross (176 net) wells, and participated in an additional 18 gross (eight net) non-operated wells, in the Permian Basin. Of these 211 gross wells, 191 were completed as producing wells and 20 were in various stages of completion. In the aggregate, as of December 31, 2012, we held interests in 225 gross (201 net) producing wells in the Permian Basin.

Our activities are primarily focused on the Clearfork, Spraberry, Wolfcamp, Cline, Strawn and Atoka formations, which we refer to collectively as the Wolfberry play. The Wolfberry play is characterized by high oil and liquids rich natural gas, multiple vertical and horizontal target horizons, extensive production history, long-lived reserves and high drilling success rates. The Wolfberry play is a modification and extension of the Spraberry play, the majority of which is designated in the Spraberry Trend area field. According to the U.S. Energy Information Administration, the Spraberry trend area ranks as the second largest oilfield in the United States, based on 2009 reserves.

As of December 31, 2012, our estimated proved oil and natural gas reserves were 40,210 MBOE based on a reserve report prepared by Ryder Scott Company L.P., or Ryder Scott, our independent reserve engineers. Of these reserves, approximately 29.5% are classified as proved developed producing, or PDP. Proved undeveloped, or PUD, reserves included in this estimate are from 306 vertical gross well locations on 40-acre spacing and four gross horizontal well locations. As of December 31, 2012, these proved reserves were approximately 65% oil, 21% natural gas liquids and 14% natural gas.

We have 881 identified potential vertical drilling locations on 40-acre spacing based on our evaluation of applicable geologic and engineering data as of December 31, 2012, and we have an additional 1,118 identified potential vertical drilling locations based on 20-acre downspacing. We have also identified 731 potential horizontal drilling locations in multiple horizons on our acreage. We intend to grow our reserves and production through development drilling, exploitation and exploration activities on this multi-year project inventory of identified potential drilling locations and through acquisitions that meet our strategic and financial objectives, targeting oil-weighted reserves. Our estimated ultimate recoveries, or EURs, from future PUD wells on 40-acre spacing, as









estimated by Ryder Scott, range from 102 MBOE per well, consisting of 46 MBbls of oil, 151 MMcf of natural gas and 31 MBbls of natural gas liquids, to 158 MBOE per well, consisting of 112 MBbls of oil, 114 MMcf of natural gas and 27 MBbls of natural gas liquids, with an average EUR per well of 133 MBOE, consisting of 91 MBbls of oil, 101 MMcf of natural gas and 25 MBbls of natural gas liquids. We also intend to continue to refine our drilling pattern and completion techniques in an effort to increase our average EUR per well from vertical wells drilled on 40-acre spacing. We currently anticipate a reduction of approximately 20% in our EURs from vertical wells drilled on 20-acre spacing.

In 2012, we began testing the horizontal well potential of our acreage. Our first horizontal well was the Janey 16H in Upton County with a 3,842 foot lateral in the Wolfcamp B interval. We are the operator of this well with a 100% working interest. It was completed in June 2012 and had a 24-hour initial production rate of 618 BOE/d and a 30-day average initial production rate of 486 BOE/d, of which 86% was oil. Through the end of 2012, the Janey 16H had produced a total of 48 MBbls of oil and 62 MMcf of natural gas. Our second horizontal well was the Kemmer 4209H in Midland County. It is a non-operated well in which we own a 47% working interest. It was completed in September 2012 in the Wolfcamp B with a 3,733 foot lateral. The production as reported to us by the operator was a peak 24 hour rate of 892 BOE/d and peak 30 day rate of 712 BOE/d, of which 85% was oil. Through the end of 2012, the Kemmer 4209H had produced a total of 41 MBbls of oil and 45 MMcf of natural gas. Based on the decline curve analysis of the current production, we anticipate that the EUR for each of these wells will be in the range of 400 to 500 MBOE.

In addition to the Janey and Kemmer wells, as of February 28, 2013 we had three additional horizontal wells in Midland County and four horizontal wells in Upton County in various stages of development. In Midland County, we have drilled the ST25-1H well (83% working interest) with a lateral length of 4,617 feet and are currently drilling the ST25-2H well (83% working interest) with a targeted lateral length of 4,800 feet. We have scheduled a 19 stage hydraulic fracturing operation for each of these wells, with the frac on the ST25-1H well expected to begin in early March 2013 and the frac on the ST25-2H well scheduled immediately after that in mid-March. Also in Midland County, we are participating in the Sarah Ann 3812H, which is a non-operated well in which we have a 42% working interest. It was drilled to a lateral length of 4,461 feet targeting the Wolfcamp B interval and recently completed an 18 stage frac.

In Upton County, we have drilled three additional wells, the Neal 8-1H (100% working interest) with a lateral length of 7,652 feet, the Neal 8-2H (100% working interest) with a lateral length of 6,658 feet and the Janey 3H (100% working interest) with a lateral length of 4,629 feet. We completed a 32 stage frac on the Neal 8-1H well in late January 2013.  As of February 26, 2013, flowback operations were underway and for the last seven days the well averaged 806 BOE/d with a peak rate of 871 BOE/d with an 85% oil component. A 28 stage frac is scheduled to begin on the Neal 8-2H well by mid-March 2013. The Janey 3H is currently undergoing a 19 stage frac and is expected to begin flowback in early March. In addition, we are currently drilling the Kendra 1H well in Upton County with a planned 7,550 foot lateral.

The production results from the wells in Midland and Upton Counties, along with geoscience and engineering data that we have gathered and analyzed, give us confidence that our acreage in Midland and Upton Counties is prospective in the Wolfcamp B interval. Based on the data we have, we also believe that a large percentage of our other Midland Basin acreage is prospective for horizontal drilling. This includes not only the Wolfcamp B interval but other intervals ranging from the Clearfork to the Atoka. However, further testing of these areas and other intervals is necessary to determine their economic potential.

Our Business Strategy

Our business strategy is to increase stockholder value through the following:



•Grow production and reserves by developing our oil-rich resource base.We intend to actively drill and develop our acreage base in an effort to maximize its value and resource potential. Through the conversion of our undeveloped reserves to developed reserves, we will seek to increase our production, reserves and cash flow while generating favorable returns on invested capital. As of December 31, 2012, we had 881 identified potential vertical drilling locations on our acreage in the Permian Basin based on 40-acre spacing and an additional 1,118 such locations based on 20-acre downspacing. We were using two vertical drilling rigs as of February 28, 2013.











•

Focus on increasing hydrocarbon recovery through horizontal drilling and increased well density.

•Leverage our experience operating in the Permian Basin.Our executive team, which has an average of approximately 24 years of industry experience per person and significant experience in the Permian Basin, intends to continue to seek ways to maximize hydrocarbon recovery by refining and enhancing our drilling and completion techniques. The time to reach total depth, or TD, for our vertical Wolfberry wells decreased from an average of 20 days during the second quarter of 2011 to an average of 14 days during the period from April 2012 through August 2012 to an average of 11 days during the fourth quarter of 2012. Our focus on efficient drilling and completion techniques, and the reduction in time to reach TD, is an important part of the continuous drilling program we have planned for our significant inventory of identified potential drilling locations. In addition, we believe that the experience of our executive team in deviated and horizontal drilling and completions should help reduce the execution risk normally associated with these complex well paths. Additionally, our completion techniques are continually evolving as we evaluate hydraulic fracturing practices that may potentially increase recovery and reduce completion costs. Our executive team regularly evaluates our operating results against those of other operators in the area in an effort to benchmark our performance against the best performing operators and evaluate and adopt best practices.

•Enhance returns through our low cost development strategy of resource conversion, capital allocation and continued improvements in operational and cost efficiencies.In the current commodity price environment, our oil and liquids rich asset base provides attractive returns. Our acreage position in the Wolfberry play is generally in contiguous blocks which allows us to develop this acreage efficiently with a “manufacturing” strategy that takes advantage of economies of scale and uses centralized production and fluid handling facilities. We are the operator of approximately 99% of our acreage. This operational control allows us to more efficiently manage the pace of development activities and the gathering and marketing of our production and control operating costs and technical applications, including horizontal development. Our average 87% working interest in our acreage allows us to realize the majority of the benefits of these expected improvements and cost efficiencies.

•Pursue strategic acquisitions with exceptional resource potential.We have a proven history of acquiring leasehold positions in the Permian Basin that have substantial oil-weighted resource potential and can achieve attractive returns on invested capital. Our executive team, with its extensive experience in the Permian Basin, has what we believe is a competitive advantage in identifying acquisition targets and a proven ability to evaluate resource potential. We intend to continue to pursue acquisitions that meet our strategic and financial targets.

•Maintain financial flexibility. We seek to maintain a conservative financial position. Upon completion of our initial public offering in October 2012, we used a portion of the net proceeds from the offering to repay the entire balance outstanding under our revolving credit facility. On December 28, 2012, the borrowing base under our revolving credit facility was redetermined, resulting in an increase in our availability to $135.0 million, of which the entire balance was fully available as of December 31, 2012.













Our Strengths

We believe that the following strengths will help us achieve our business goals:



•Oil rich resource base in one of North America’s leading resource plays. All of our leasehold acreage is located in one of the most prolific oil plays in North America, the Permian Basin in West Texas. The majority of our current properties are well positioned in the core of the Wolfberry play. We believe that our historical vertical development success will be complemented with horizontal drilling locations that could ultimately translate into an increased recovery factor on a per section basis. Our production was approximately 70% oil, 17% natural gas liquids and 13% natural gas for the year ended December 31, 2012. As of December 31, 2012, our estimated net proved reserves were comprised of approximately 65% oil and 21% natural gas liquids. This oil and liquids exposure allows us to benefit from their currently more favorable prices as compared to natural gas.



•

Multi-year drilling inventory in one of North America’s leading oil resource plays

•Experienced, incentivized and proven management team. Our executive team has an average of approximately 24 years of industry experience per person, most of which is focused on resource play development. This team has a proven track record of executing on multi-rig development drilling programs and extensive experience in the Permian Basin. In addition, our executive team has significant experience with both drilling and completing horizontal wells as well as horizontal well reservoir and geologic expertise, which will be of strategic importance as we expand our horizontal drilling activity. Prior to joining us, our Chief Executive Officer held management positions at Apache Corporation, Laredo Petroleum Holdings, Inc. and Burlington Resources.

•Favorable and stable operating environment. We have focused our drilling and development operations in the Permian Basin, one of the oldest hydrocarbon basins in the United States, with a long and well-established production history and developed infrastructure. With approximately 380,000 wells drilled in the Permian Basin since the 1940s, we believe that the geological and regulatory environment is more stable and predictable, and that we are faced with less operational risks, in the Permian Basin as compared to emerging hydrocarbon basins.

•High degree of operational control. We are the operator of approximately 99% of our Permian Basin acreage. This operating control allows us to better execute on our strategies of enhancing returns through operational and cost efficiencies and increasing ultimate hydrocarbon recovery by seeking to continually improve our drilling techniques, completion methodologies and reservoir evaluation processes. Additionally, as the operator of substantially all of our acreage, we retain the ability to adjust our capital expenditure program based on commodity price outlooks. This operating control also enables us to obtain data needed for efficient exploration of horizontal prospects.

•Financial flexibility to fund expansion. We have a conservative balance sheet. We will seek to maintain financial flexibility to allow us to actively develop our drilling, exploitation and exploration activities in the Wolfberry play and maximize the present value of our oil-weighted resource potential. As of December 31, 2012, we had no outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility and $135.0 million of available borrowing capacity.  We expect that our borrowing base will be increased as we increase our reserves.









Our History



$54,142,000

. We refer to the historical results of Windsor Permian and Windsor UT prior to October 11, 2012 as our “Predecessors.”

Immediately after the merger on October 11, 2012, we acquired from Gulfport Energy Corporation, or Gulfport, all of Gulfport’s oil and natural gas interests in the Permian Basin, which we refer to as the “Gulfport properties,” in exchange for shares of our common stock and a promissory note, in a transaction we refer to as the Gulfport transaction. The Gulfport transaction was treated as a business combination accounted for under the acquisition method of accounting with the identifiable assets and liabilities recognized at fair value on the date of transfer. See Note 2—Acquisitions to our audited combined consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information regarding the Gulfport transaction.



On October 17, 2012, we completed our initial public offering, or IPO, of14,375,000shares of common stock, which included1,875,000shares of common stock issued pursuant to the over-allotment option exercised by the underwriters. The stock was priced at$17.50per share and we received net proceeds of approximately$234.1 millionfrom the sale of these shares of common stock, net of offering expenses and underwriting discounts and commissions.

Review of Exploration, Exploitation and Development Activities

Permian Basin

Location and Land

We acquired approximately 4,174 net acres in West Texas (near Midland) in the Permian Basin on December 20, 2007, with an effective date of November 1, 2007, from ExL Petroleum, LP, Ambrose Energy I, Ltd. and certain other sellers. Subsequently, we acquired approximately 47,429 additional net acres, which brought our total net acreage position in the Permian Basin to approximately 51,603 net acres at December 31, 2012. Since our initial acquisition in the Permian Basin through December 31, 2012, we drilled or participated in the drilling of 211 gross (184 net) wells on our leasehold in this area, primarily targeting the Wolfberry play. We are the operator of approximately 99% of our Permian Basin acreage. The Permian Basin area covers a significant portion of western Texas and eastern New Mexico and is considered one of the major producing basins in the United States.



Area History

Our proved reserves are located in the Permian Basin of West Texas, in particular in the Clearfork, Spraberry, Wolfcamp, Cline, Strawn and Atoka formations. The Spraberry play was initiated with production from several new field discoveries in the late 1940s and early 1950s. It was eventually recognized that a regional productive trend was present, as fields were extended and coalesced over a broad area in the central Midland Basin. Development in the Spraberry play was sporadic over the next several decades due to typically low productive rate wells, with economics being dependent on oil prices and drilling costs.

The Wolfcamp formation is a long-established reservoir in West Texas, first found in the 1950s as wells aiming for deeper targets occasionally intersected slump blocks or debris flows with good reservoir properties. Exploration using 2-D seismic data located additional fields, but it was not until the use of 3-D seismic data in the 1990s that the greater extent of the Wolfcamp formation was revealed. The additional potential of the shales within this formation as reservoir rather than just source rocks was not recognized until very recently.









During the late 1990s, Atlantic Richfield Company, or Arco, began a drilling program targeting the base of the Spraberry formation at 10,000 feet, with an additional 200 to 300 feet drilled to produce from the upper portion of the Wolfcamp formation. Henry Petroleum, a private firm, owned interests in the Pegasus field in Midland and Upton counties. While drilling in the same area as the Arco project, Henry Petroleum decided to drill completely through the Wolfcamp section. Henry Petroleum mapped the trend and began acquiring acreage and drilling wells using multiple slick-water fracturing treatments across the entire Wolfcamp interval. In 2005, former members of Henry Petroleum’s Wolfcamp team formed their own private company, ExL Petroleum, and began replicating Henry Petroleum’s program. After ExL had drilled 32 productive Wolfcamp/Spraberry wells through late 2007, they monetized a portion of their acreage position, which led to the acquisition that enabled us to begin our participation in this play. Recent advancements in enhanced recovery techniques and horizontal drilling continue to make this play attractive to the oil and gas industry. By mid-2010, approximately half of the rigs active in the Permian Basin were drilling wells in the Wolfberry play. As of December 31, 2012, we held interests in 225 gross (201 net) producing wells.

Geology

The Permian Basin formed as an area of rapid Mississippian-Pennsylvanian subsidence in the foreland of the Ouachita fold belt. It is one of the largest sedimentary basins in the U.S., and has oil and gas production from several reservoirs from Permian through Ordovician in age. The term “Wolfberry” was coined initially to indicate commingled production from the Permian Spraberry, Dean and Wolfcamp formations. In this report, we refer to the Clearfork, Spraberry, Wolfcamp, Cline, Strawn and Atoka formations collectively as the Wolfberry play. The Wolfberry play of the Midland Basin lies in the area where the historically productive Spraberry trend geographically overlaps the productive area of the emerging Wolfcamp play. The Spraberry was deposited as turbidites in a deep water submarine fan environment, while the Wolfcamp reservoirs consist of debris-flow and grain-flow sediments, which were also deposited in a submarine fan setting. The best carbonate reservoirs within the Wolfcamp are generally found in proximity to the Central Basin Platform, while the shale reservoirs within the Wolfcamp thicken basinward away from the Central Basin Platform. Both the Spraberry and Wolfcamp contain organic-rich mudstones and shales which, when buried to sufficient depth for maturation, became the source of the hydrocarbons found in the reservoirs.

The Wolfberry play can be generally characterized as a combination of low-permeability clastic, carbonate and shale reservoirs which are hydrocarbon-charged and are economic due to the overall thickness of the section (more than 3,000 feet) and application of enhanced stimulation (fracking) techniques. The Wolfberry is an unconventional “basin-centered oil” resource play, in the sense that there is no regional downdip oil/water contact.

Several shale intervals within the Wolfcamp formation are currently being evaluated for horizontal development potential, and initial drilling to explore these intervals commenced in 2012. The shales exhibit micro-darcy permeabilities which result in relatively small drainage areas and recovery factors. Because of this, we believe the horizontal exploitation of these reservoirs will supplement, and not replace, our vertical development program.

There are also productive carbonate and shale intervals within the shallower Permian Clearfork formation. Two shale intervals within the Clearfork formation are currently being evaluated for potential horizontal development. Below the Wolfcamp formation lie the Pennsylvanian Strawn and Atoka formations. Although difficult to predict, there are conventional pay intervals that develop locally within these formations which, when present, can add significant reserves.

Debris flows within the Spraberry and Wolfcamp carbonates have been observed on 3-D seismic surveys. Initial tests have confirmed the presence of enhanced reservoir. Additionally, structural closures have been mapped and are being evaluated for drilling to test deeper targets. Our extensive geophysical database, which includes approximately 182 square miles of proprietary 3-D seismic data, will be used to enhance grading of future locations.

Production Status

During the year ended December 31, 2012, net production from our Permian Basin acreage was 1,078,321 BOE, or an average of 2,946 BOE/d, of which 70% was oil, 17% was natural gas liquids and 13% was natural gas.

Facilities

Our land oil and gas processing facilities are typical of those found in the Permian Basin. Our facilities located at well locations include storage tank batteries, oil/gas/water separation equipment and pumping units.











Future Activity

During 2013, we expect to drill an estimated 37 gross (31 net) vertical wells and 25 gross (22 net) horizontal wells on our acreage. We estimate that our capital expenditures for 2013 will be between $270 million and $300 million, which includes costs for infrastructure and non-operated wells but does not include the cost of any land acquisitions.



Oil and Gas Data

Proved Reserves

SEC Rule-Making Activity

In December 2008, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, released its final rule for “Modernization of Oil and Gas Reporting.” These rules require disclosure of oil and gas proved reserves by significant geographic area, using the arithmetic 12-month average beginning-of-the-month price for the year, as opposed to year-end prices as had previously been required, unless contractual arrangements designate the price to be used. Other significant amendments included the following:

•Disclosure of unproved reserves: probable and possible reserves may be disclosed separately on a voluntary basis.

•Proved undeveloped reserve guidelines: reserves may be classified as proved undeveloped if there is a high degree of confidence that the quantities will be recovered and they are scheduled to be drilled within the next five years, unless the specific circumstances justify a longer time.

•Reserves estimation using new technologies: reserves may be estimated through the use of reliable technology in addition to flow tests and production history.

•Reserves personnel and estimation process: additional disclosure is required regarding the qualifications of the chief technical person who oversees the reserves estimation process. We are also required to provide a general discussion of our internal controls used to assure the objectivity of the reserves estimate.

•Non-traditional resources: the definition of oil and gas producing activities has expanded and focuses on the marketable product rather than the method of extraction.

We adopted the rules effective December 31, 2009, as required by the SEC.

Evaluation and Review of Reserves

Our historical reserve estimates were prepared by Ryder Scott as of December 31, 2012 and 2011 and by Pinnacle Energy Services, LLC, or Pinnacle, as of December 31, 2010, in each case with respect to our assets in the Permian Basin.

Each of Ryder Scott and Pinnacle is an independent petroleum engineering firm. The technical persons responsible for preparing our proved reserve estimates meet the requirements with regards to qualifications, independence, objectivity and confidentiality set forth in the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers. Neither independent third-party engineering firm owns an interest in any of our properties or is employed by us on a contingent basis.









curve analysis, which utilized extrapolations of available historical production and pressure data. The remaining 15% of the proved producing reserves were estimated by analogy, or a combination of performance and analogy methods. The analogy method was used where there were inadequate historical performance data to establish a definitive trend and where the use of production performance data as a basis for the reserve estimates was considered to be inappropriate. All proved developed non-producing and undeveloped reserves were estimated by the analogy method.

To estimate economically recoverable proved reserves and related future net cash flows, Ryder Scott considered many factors and assumptions, including the use of reservoir parameters derived from geological, geophysical and engineering data which cannot be measured directly, economic criteria based on current costs and the SEC pricing requirements and forecasts of future production rates. To establish reasonable certainty with respect to our estimated proved reserves, the technologies and economic data used in the estimation of our proved reserves included production and well test data, downhole completion information, geologic data, electrical logs, radioactivity logs, core analyses, available seismic data and historical well cost and operating expense data.

We maintain an internal staff of petroleum engineers and geoscience professionals who worked closely with our independent reserve engineers to ensure the integrity, accuracy and timeliness of the data used to calculate our proved reserves relating to our assets in the Permian Basin. Our internal technical team members met with our independent reserve engineers periodically during the period covered by the reserve report to discuss the assumptions and methods used in the proved reserve estimation process. We provide historical information to the independent reserve engineers for our properties such as ownership interest, oil and gas production, well test data, commodity prices and operating and development costs. Our Vice President—Reservoir Engineering is primarily responsible for overseeing the preparation of all of our reserve estimates. Our Vice President—Reservoir Engineering is a petroleum engineer with over 30 years of reservoir and operations experience and our geoscience staff has an average of approximately 26 years of industry experience per person. Our technical staff uses historical information for our properties such as ownership interest, oil and gas production, well test data, commodity prices and operating and development costs.

The preparation of our proved reserve estimates are completed in accordance with our internal control procedures. These procedures, which are intended to ensure reliability of reserve estimations, include the following:



•review and verification of historical production data, which data is based on actual production as reported by us;

•preparation of reserve estimates by our Vice President—Reservoir Engineering or under his direct supervision;

•review by our Vice President—Reservoir Engineering of all of our reported proved reserves at the close of each quarter, including the review of all significant reserve changes and all new proved undeveloped reserves additions;

•direct reporting responsibilities by our Vice President—Reservoir Engineering to our Chief Executive Officer;

•verification of property ownership by our land department; and

•no employee’s compensation is tied to the amount of reserves booked.









































The following table presents our estimated net proved oil and natural gas reserves and the present value of our reserves as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, based on the reserve report prepared by Ryder Scott, and as of December 31, 2010, based on the reserve report prepared by Pinnacle, each an independent petroleum engineering firm, and such reserve reports have been prepared in accordance with the rules and regulations of the SEC. All our proved reserves included in the reserve reports are located in North America. Ryder Scott and Pinnacle prepared all our reserve estimates as of the periods covered by their respective reports.



HistoricalYear Ended December 31,201220112010Estimated proved developed reserves:Oil (Bbls)7,189,3673,949,0993,371,460Natural gas (Mcf)12,864,9415,285,9454,336,720Natural gas liquids (Bbls)2,999,4401,263,7101,126,431Total (BOE)12,332,9646,093,8005,220,678Estimated proved undeveloped reserves:Oil (Bbls)19,007,49214,151,33716,258,700Natural gas (Mcf)21,705,20715,265,52218,358,360Natural gas liquids (Bbls)5,251,9893,785,8494,706,536Total (BOE)27,877,01620,481,44024,024,963Estimated Net Proved Reserves:Oil (Bbls)26,196,85918,100,43619,630,160Natural gas (Mcf)34,570,14820,551,46722,695,080Natural gas liquids (Bbls)8,251,4295,049,5595,832,967Total (BOE)(1)40,209,97926,575,24029,245,641Percent proved developed30.7%22.9%17.9%

(1)Estimates of reserves as of December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 were prepared using an average price equal to the unweighted arithmetic average of hydrocarbon prices received on a field-by-field basis on the first day of each month within the 12-month periods ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, in accordance with revised SEC guidelines applicable to reserves estimates as of the end of such periods. Reserve estimates do not include any value for probable or possible reserves that may exist, nor do they include any value for undeveloped acreage. The reserve estimates represent our net revenue interest in our properties. Although we believe these estimates are reasonable, actual future production, cash flows, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves may vary substantially from these estimates.



The foregoing reserves are all located within the continental United States. Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating volumes of economically recoverable oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation. As a result, the estimates of different engineers often vary. In addition, the results of drilling, testing and production may justify revisions of such estimates. Accordingly, reserve estimates often differ from the quantities of oil and natural gas that are ultimately recovered. Estimates of economically recoverable oil and natural gas and of future net revenues are based on a number of variables and assumptions, all of which may vary from actual results, including geologic interpretation, prices and future production rates and costs. See Item 1A.“Risk Factors.” We have not filed any estimates of total, proved net oil or natural gas reserves with any federal authority or agency other than the SEC.

Proved Undeveloped Reserves (PUDs)

As of December 31, 2012, our proved undeveloped reserves totaled 19,008 MBbls of oil, 21,705 MMcf of natural gas and 5,251 MBbls of natural gas liquids, for a total of 27,877 MBOE.  PUDs will be converted from undeveloped to developed as the applicable wells begin production.











Changes in PUDs that occurred during 2012 were primarily due to:

•additions of 3,167 MBOE attributable to extensions resulting from strategic drilling of wells by us to delineate our acreage position;

•the conversion of approximately 3,224 MBOE attributable to PUDs into proved developed reserves;

•negative revisions of approximately 625 MBOE in PUDs due to a combination of lower product prices causing wells to reach economic limit earlier, adjustments in working interest and performance revisions; and

•purchases of reserves in place of 8,077 MBOE.

Costs incurred relating to the development of PUDs were approximately $50.2 million during 2012. Estimated future development costs relating to the development of PUDs are projected to be approximately $136.8 million in 2013, $132.0 million in 2014, $154.8 million in 2015, $97.9 million in 2016 and $20.0 million in 2017. Since our current executive team assumed management control in 2011, our average drilling costs and drilling times have been reduced. As we continue to develop our properties and have more well production and completion data, we believe we will continue to realize cost savings and experience lower relative drilling and completion costs as we convert PUDs into proved developed reserves in upcoming years.

All of our PUD drilling locations are scheduled to be drilled prior to the end of 2017.

As of December 31, 2012, 1.2% of our total proved reserves were classified as proved developed non-producing.











Oil and Gas Production Prices and Production Costs

Production and Price History

The following table sets forth information regarding our net production of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids, all of which is from the Permian Basin in West Texas, and certain price and cost information for each of the periods indicated:




(1)After giving effect to our hedging arrangements, the average prices per Bbl of oil and per BOE were $79.68 and $64.47, respectively, during the year ended December 31, 2012, and $92.15 and $79.05, respectively, during the year ended December 31, 2011. Average prices for our hydrocarbons were not impacted by hedging arrangements during 2010.



Productive Wells

As of December 31, 2012, we owned an average 87.0% working interest in 225 gross (201 net) productive wells. Productive wells consist of producing wells and wells capable of production, including natural gas wells awaiting pipeline connections to commence deliveries and oil wells awaiting connection to production facilities. Gross wells are the total number of producing wells in which we have an interest, and net wells are the sum of our fractional working interests owned in gross wells.




Acreage

The following table sets forth information as of December 31, 2012 relating to our leasehold acreage:



(1)Developed acres are acres spaced or assigned to productive wells and do not include undrilled acreage held by production under the terms of the lease.(2)Undeveloped acres are acres on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil or natural gas, regardless of whether such acreage contains proved reserves.(3)A gross acre is an acre in which a working interest is owned. The number of gross acres is the total number of acres in which a working interest is owned.(4)A net acre is deemed to exist when the sum of the fractional ownership working interests in gross acres equals one. The number of net acres is the sum of the fractional working interests owned in gross acres expressed as whole numbers and fractions thereof.



Undeveloped acreage expirations

Many of the leases comprising the undeveloped acreage set forth in the table above will expire at the end of their respective primary terms unless production from the leasehold acreage has been established prior to such date, in which event the lease will remain in effect until the cessation of production. The following table sets forth the gross and net undeveloped acreage, as of December 31, 2012, that will expire over the next five years unless production is established within the spacing units covering the acreage or the lease is renewed or extended under continuous drilling provisions prior to the primary term expiration dates.



Drilling Results

The following table sets forth information with respect to the number of wells completed during the periods indicated. Each of these wells was drilled in the Permian Basin of West Texas. The information should not be considered indicative of future performance, nor should it be assumed that there is necessarily any correlation between the number of productive wells drilled, quantities of reserves found or economic value. Productive wells are those that produce commercial quantities of hydrocarbons, whether or not they produce a reasonable rate of return.

Year Ended December 31,201220112010GrossNetGrossNetGrossNetDevelopment:Productive442839234127Dry——————Exploratory:Productive14774——Dry——————Total:Productive583546274127Dry——————











As of December 31, 2012, we had 19 gross (15.3 net) wells in the process of drilling, completing or dewatering or shut in awaiting infrastructure that are not reflected in the above table.