ITEM 1.  BUSINESS AND PROPERTIES



Overview



We are an independent oil and natural gas company focused on the acquisition, development, exploration and exploitation of unconventional, onshore oil and natural gas reserves in the Permian Basin in West Texas. This basin, which is one of the major producing basins in the United States, is characterized by an extensive production history, a favorable operating environment, mature infrastructure, long reserve life, multiple producing horizons, enhanced recovery potential and a large number of operators.



We began operations in December 2007 with our acquisition of4,174net acres in the Permian Basin. AtDecember 31, 2017, our total acreage position in the Permian Basin was approximately246,012gross (206,660net) acres. In addition, we, through our subsidiary Viper Energy Partners LP, or Viper, own mineral interests underlying approximately247,602gross acres,43,843net acres and9,570net royalty acres primarily in Midland County, Texas in the Permian Basin. Approximately36%of these net royalty acres are operated by us. We own Viper Energy Partners GP LLC, the general partner of Viper, which we refer to as the general partner, and we own approximately64%of the limited partner interest in Viper.



Our activities are primarily focused on horizontal development of the Spraberry and Wolfcamp formations of the Midland Basin and the Wolfcamp and Bone Spring formations of the Delaware Basin, both of which are part of the larger Permian Basin in West Texas and New Mexico. The Permian Basin is characterized by high oil and liquids rich natural gas, multiple vertical and horizontal target horizons, extensive production history, long-lived reserves and high drilling success rates.



As ofDecember 31, 2017, our estimated proved oil and natural gas reserves were335,352MBOE (which includes estimated reserves of38,246MBOE attributable to the mineral interests owned by Viper), based on reserve reports prepared by Ryder Scott Company, L.P., or Ryder Scott, our independent reserve engineers. Of these reserves, approximately62.2%are classified as proved developed producing. Proved undeveloped, or PUD, reserves included in this estimate are from168gross (142net) horizontal well locations in which we have a working interest, andninehorizontal wells in which we own only a mineral interest through our subsidiary, Viper. As ofDecember 31, 2017, our estimated proved reserves were approximately70%oil,14%natural gas liquids and16%natural gas.



Based on our evaluation of applicable geologic and engineering data, we currently have approximately3,800gross (2,750net) identified economic potential horizontal drilling locations in multiple horizons on our acreage at an assumed price of approximately$60.00per Bbl WTI. We intend to continue to develop our reserves and increase production through development drilling and exploitation and exploration activities on this multi-year project inventory of identified potential drilling locations and through additional acquisitions that meet our strategic and financial objectives, targeting oil-weighted reserves.



The challenging commodity price environment that we experienced in 2016 continued in 2017. Commodity prices improved during 2017, but continued to be volatile. Nevertheless, we believe we remain well-positioned in this environment.During2017, we again demonstrated our operational focus on achieving best-in-class execution, low-cost operations and a conservative balance sheet as we continued to reduce drilling days, well costs and operating expenses while maintaining what we believe to be a peer leading leverage ratio. We intend to continue our operational focus in2018, emphasizing full cycle economics and financial discipline.We are operating ten rigs now and currently intend to operate between ten and twelve rigs in 2018, depending on market conditions. We will continue monitoring the ongoing commodity price environment and expect to retain the financial flexibility to adjust our drilling and completion plans in response to market conditions. We are prepared to decelerate our drilling program if commodity prices deteriorate and continue to accelerate our drilling program should commodity prices remain constant or further improve. We have the option to release up to eight of our current ten rigs in 2018 should commodity prices deteriorate.See Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity and Capital Resources.”














Our Business Strategy



Our business strategy is to continue to profitably grow our business through the following:



•Grow production and reserves by developing our oil-rich resource base.We intend to drill and develop our acreage base in an effort to maximize its value and resource potential. Through the conversion of our undeveloped reserves to developed reserves, we will seek to increase our production, reserves and cash flow while generating favorable returns on invested capital.





•

Focus on increasing hydrocarbon recovery through horizontal drilling and increased well density.

We have targeted various intervals in the Midland Basin through horizontal drilling and believe that there are opportunities to target additional intervals throughout the stratigraphic column. Our initial horizontal focus had been on the Wolfcamp B interval

,

but our recent focus has included the Lower Spraberry, Middle Spraberry and Wolfcamp A intervals. Our first

two

horizontal wells were completed in


and had lateral lengths of less than

4,000

feet. As of

December 31, 2017

, we had drilled


horizontal wells as operator and had participated in


additional horizontal wells as a non-operator, including

two

in which we own only a minor wellbore interest. We also acquired interest in


horizontal wells on properties we purchased. Of these


total horizontal wells,


had been completed and were on production. Of the


horizontal wells on production,


are in the Wolfcamp B interval,


are in the Wolfcamp A interval,


are in the Lower Spraberry interval,

nine

are in the Middle Spraberry interval,

three

are in the Cline interval,

three

are in the Clearfork interval,

seven

are in the Bone Spring interval and

seven

are in various other intervals. These wells have lateral lengths ranging from approximately

2,100

feet to

13,000

feet. In


, we expect that our average lateral length will be about

9,300

feet, although the actual length will vary depending on the layout of our acreage and other factors. As technology continues to improve, we expect that our average lateral length will increase, resulting in higher per well recoveries and lower development costs per BOE. During the year ended

December 31, 2017

, we were able to drill our horizontal wells in the Midland Basin with approximately

7,500

foot lateral lengths to total depth, or TD, in an average of

12.2

days and we drilled approximately

10,000

foot lateral wells in

14.5

days. Further advances in drilling and completion technology may result in economic development of zones that are not currently viable.



•Leverage our experience operating in the Permian Basin.Our executive team, which has an average of over 25 years of industry experience per person and significant experience in the Permian Basin, intends to continue to seek ways to maximize hydrocarbon recovery by refining and enhancing our drilling and completion techniques. Our focus on efficient drilling and completion techniques is an important part of the continuous drilling program we have planned for our significant inventory of identified potential drilling locations. We believe that the experience of our executive team in deviated and horizontal drilling and completions has helped reduce the execution risk normally associated with these complex well paths. In addition, our completion techniques are continually evolving as we evaluate and implement hydraulic fracturing practices that have and are expected to continue to increase recovery and reduce completion costs. Our executive team regularly evaluates our operating results against those of other operators in the area in an effort to benchmark our performance against the best performing operators and evaluate and adopt best practices.



•Enhance returns through our low cost development strategy of resource conversion, capital allocation and continued improvements in operational and cost efficiencies.Our acreage position in the Wolfberry play is generally in contiguous blocks which allows us to develop this acreage efficiently with a “manufacturing” strategy that takes advantage of economies of scale and uses centralized production and fluid handling facilities. We are the operator of approximately84%of our acreage. This operational control allows us to manage more efficiently the pace of development activities and the gathering and marketing of our production and control operating costs and technical applications, including horizontal development. Our average84%working interest in our acreage allows us to realize the majority of the benefits of these activities and cost efficiencies.



•Pursue strategic acquisitions with substantial resource potential.We have a proven history of acquiring leasehold positions in the Permian Basin that have substantial oil-weighted resource potential. Our executive team, with its extensive experience in the Permian Basin, has what we believe is a competitive advantage in identifying acquisition targets and a proven ability to evaluate resource potential. We regularly review acquisition opportunities and intend to pursue acquisitions that meet our strategic and financial targets. During the year endedDecember 31, 2017, we acquired approximately99,830gross (84,468net) leasehold acres primarily in Pecos and Reeves counties in the Southern Delaware Basin.












•Maintain financial flexibility.We seek to maintain a conservative financial position. In connection with our fall 2017 borrowing base redetermination, the agent lender under our revolving credit agreement recommended a borrowing base of$1.8 billion. We elected a commitment amount of$1.0 billion, of which$603.0 millionwas available for borrowing as ofDecember 31, 2017. As ofDecember 31, 2017, Viper had$93.5 millionin outstanding borrowings, and$306.5 millionavailable for borrowing, under its revolving credit facility.



Our Strengths



We believe that the following strengths will help us achieve our business goals:



•Oil rich resource base in one of North America’s leading resource plays.All of our leasehold acreage is located in one of the most prolific oil plays in North America, the Permian Basin in West Texas. The majority of our current properties are well positioned in the core of the Permian Basin. Our production for the year endedDecember 31, 2017was approximately74%oil,14%natural gas liquids and12%natural gas. As ofDecember 31, 2017, our estimated net proved reserves were comprised of approximately70%oil,14%natural gas liquids and16%natural gas.





•

Multi-year drilling inventory in one of North America’s leading oil resource plays.

We have identified a multi-year inventory of potential drilling locations for our oil-weighted reserves that we believe provides attractive growth and return opportunities. At an assumed price of approximately

$60.00

per Bbl WTI, we currently have approximately

3,800

gross (

2,750

net) identified economic potential horizontal drilling locations on our acreage based on our evaluation of applicable geologic and engineering data. These gross identified economic potential horizontal locations have an average lateral length of approximately

8,400

feet, with the actual length depending on lease geometry and other considerations. These locations exist across most of our acreage blocks and in multiple horizons. Of these

3,800

locations,

2,100

are in the Midland Basin and

1,700

are in the Delaware Basin. In the Midland Basin,


are in the Lower Spraberry or Wolfcamp B horizons where we have drilled a large number of wells,


are in the Wolfcamp A or Middle Spraberry horizons where we have drilled a limited number of wells and


are in the Clearfork or Cline horizons where we have drilled very few wells. Our current location count for the Lower Spraberry horizon is based on


foot spacing in f Midland, southwest Martin, northeast Andrews, Howard and Glasscock counties, and


foot spacing in all other counties. For the Wolfcamp B horizon, the horizontal location count is based on


foot spacing between wells in Midland, Martin, northeast Andrews, Howard, and Glasscock counties, and


foot spacing in all other counties. In the Wolfcamp A horizon, the horizontal location count in based on


foot spacing in Midland, Howard and Glasscock counties,


foot spacing in southwest Martin county and

1,320

foot spacing in other counties. The horizontal location count for the Middle Spraberry is based on


foot spacing in Midland, Martin and northeast Andrews counties and

1,320

foot spacing in other counties. In the Cline and Clearfork horizons, the horizontal location count is based on

1,320

foot spacing except for the Clearfork in central Andrews County which is based on


foot spacing. In the Delaware Basin,

1,240

locations are in the Wolfcamp A or Wolfcamp B horizons, and


locations are in the 2nd Bone Spring or 3rd Bone Spring horizon.  The horizontal location counts are based on


foot spacing in the Wolfcamp A and Wolfcamp B horizons, and

1,320

foot spacing in the Bone Spring horizons. The ultimate inter-well spacing may vary from these distances due to different factors, which would result in a higher or lower location count. The two-stream gross estimated ultimate recoveries, or EURs, from our future PUD horizontal wells, as estimated by Ryder Scott as of

December 31, 2017

, range from


MBOE per well, consisting of


MBbls of oil and


MMcf of natural gas, to

1,665

MBOE per well, consisting of

1,307

MBbls of oil and

2,150

MMcf of natural gas, for wells ranging in lateral length from approximately

5,000

feet to approximately

12,500

feet, in intervals including the Middle Spraberry, Lower Spraberry, Wolfcamp A, and Wolfcamp B.  Ryder Scott has estimated gross EURs of


MBOE for our Lower Spraberry wells in Midland County and

1,071

MBOE for our Wolfcamp A wells in Pecos County, which constitute

36%

of our remaining PUD horizontal wells, in each case based on

7,500

foot lateral lengths. In addition, we have approximately

1,837

square miles of proprietary 3-D seismic data covering our acreage. This data facilitates the evaluation of our existing drilling inventory and provides insight into future development activity, including additional horizontal drilling opportunities and strategic leasehold acquisitions.



•Experienced, incentivized and proven management team.Our executive team has an average of over 25 years of industry experience per person, most of which is focused on resource play development. This team has a proven track record of executing on multi-rig development drilling programs and extensive experience in the Permian Basin. In addition, our executive team has significant experience with both drilling and completing horizontal wells in addition to horizontal well reservoir and geologic expertise, which is of strategic importance as we expand our horizontal drilling activity. Prior to joining us, our Chief Executive Officer held management positions at Apache Corporation, Laredo Petroleum Holdings, Inc. and Burlington Resources.












•Favorable operating environment.We have focused our drilling and development operations in the Permian Basin, one of the longest operating hydrocarbon basins in the United States, with a long and well-established production history and developed infrastructure. We believe that the geological and regulatory environment of the Permian Basin is more stable and predictable, and that we are faced with less operational risks in the Permian Basin as compared to emerging hydrocarbon basins.



•High degree of operational control.We are the operator of approximately84%of our Permian Basin acreage. This operating control allows us to better execute on our strategies of enhancing returns through operational and cost efficiencies and increasing ultimate hydrocarbon recovery by seeking to continually improve our drilling techniques, completion methodologies and reservoir evaluation processes. Additionally, as the operator of substantially all of our acreage, we retain the ability to increase or decrease our capital expenditure program based on commodity price outlooks. This operating control also enables us to obtain data needed for efficient exploration of horizontal prospects.