ITEM 1.  BUSINESS AND PROPERTIES



Overview



We are an independent oil and natural gas company focused on the acquisition, development, exploration and exploitation of unconventional, onshore oil and natural gas reserves in the Permian Basin in West Texas. This basin, which is one of the major producing basins in the United States, is characterized by an extensive production history, a favorable operating environment, mature infrastructure, long reserve life, multiple producing horizons, enhanced recovery potential and a large number of operators.



We began operations in December 2007 with our acquisition of 4,174 net acres in the Permian Basin. At

December 31, 2019

, our total acreage position in the Permian Basin was approximately

455,378

gross (

382,337

net) acres, which consisted primarily of approximately

218,138

gross (

195,461

net) acres in the Midland Basin and approximately

196,171

gross (

155,296

net) acres in the Delaware Basin. In addition, our publicly traded subsidiary Viper Energy Partners LP, which we refer to as Viper, owns mineral interests underlying approximately

814,224

gross acres and

24,304

net royalty acres in the Permian Basin and Eagle Ford Shale. Approximately

50%

of these net royalty acres are operated by us. We own Viper Energy Partners GP LLC, the general partner of Viper, which we refer to as Viper’s general partner, and we own approximately

58%

of the limited partner interest in Viper. Further, our publicly traded subsidiary Rattler Midstream Partners LP, which we refer to as Rattler, is focused on ownership, operation, development and acquisition of  midstream infrastructure assets in the Midland and Delaware Basins of the Permian Basin. We own Rattler Midstream GP LLC, the general partner of Rattler, which we refer to as Rattler’s general partner, and we own approximately

71%

of the limited partner interest in Rattler. As of

December 31, 2019

, Rattler owned and operated


miles of crude oil gathering pipelines, natural gas gathering pipelines and a fully integrated water system on acreage that overlays our  seven core Midland and Delaware Basin development areas. To facilitate the transportation of produced water and hydrocarbon volumes away from the producing wellhead to ensuring the efficient operations of a crude oil or natural gas well, Rattler’s midstream infrastructure includes a network of gathering pipelines that collect and transport crude oil, natural gas and produced water from our operations in the Midland and Delaware Basins.



Our activities are primarily focused on horizontal development of the Spraberry and Wolfcamp formations of the Midland Basin and the Wolfcamp and Bone Spring formations of the Delaware Basin, both of which are part of the larger Permian Basin in West Texas and New Mexico. The Permian Basin is characterized by high oil and liquids rich natural gas, multiple vertical and horizontal target horizons, extensive production history, long-lived reserves and high drilling success rates.



As ofDecember 31, 2019, our estimated proved oil and natural gas reserves were1,127,575MBOE (which includes estimated reserves of88,946MBOE attributable to the mineral interests owned by Viper), based on reserve reports prepared by Ryder Scott Company, L.P., or Ryder Scott, our independent reserve engineers. Of these reserves, approximately67%are classified as proved developed producing. Proved undeveloped, or PUD, reserves included in this estimate are from477gross (434net) horizontal well locations in which we have a working interest, and22horizontal wells in which we own only a mineral interest through our subsidiary, Viper. As ofDecember 31, 2019, our estimated proved reserves were approximately63%oil,20%natural gas liquids and17%natural gas.



Based on our evaluation of applicable geologic and engineering data, we currently have approximately12,310gross (8,141net) identified economic potential horizontal drilling locations in multiple horizons on our acreage at an assumed price of approximately$60.00per Bbl WTI. We intend to continue to develop our reserves and increase production through development drilling and exploitation and exploration activities on this multi-year project inventory of identified potential drilling locations and through additional acquisitions that meet our strategic and financial objectives, targeting oil-weighted reserves.



Significant 2019 Transactions



Divestiture of Certain Conventional and Non-Core Assets Acquired from Energen



On May 23, 2019, we completed our divestiture of6,589net acres of certain non-core Permian assets, which we acquired in our November 2018 merger with Energen Corporation, which we refer to as the Energen merger, for an aggregate sale price of$37 million.











On July 1, 2019, we completed our divestiture of103,750net acres of certain conventional and non-core Permian assets, which we acquired in the Energen merger, for an aggregate sale price of$285 million.



Drop-Down

On October 1, 2019, we completed a transaction to divest certain mineral and royalty interests to Viper for approximately18.3 millionof Viper’s newly-issued Class B units, approximately18.3 millionnewly-issued units of Viper LLC witha fair value of$497 millionand$190 millionin cash, after giving effect to closing adjustments for net title benefits, which we refer to as the Drop-Down. The mineral and royalty interests divested in the Drop-Down represent approximately5,490net royalty acres across the Midland and Delaware Basins, of which over95%are operated by us, and have an average net royalty interest of approximately3.2%.

Rattler’s Initial Public Offering



In May 2019, Rattler completed its initial public offering, which we refer to as the Rattler Offering, of an aggregate 43,700,000 common units at a price to the public of $17.50 per share, which common units are traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol “RTLR.” Rattler received aggregate net proceeds of approximately $720 million from the sale of these common units, after deducting the underwriting discount and offering expenses.



Our Business Strategy



Our business strategy is to continue to profitably grow our business through the following:



•Grow production and reserves by developing our oil-rich resource base.We intend to drill and develop our acreage base in an effort to maximize its value and resource potential. Through the conversion of our undeveloped reserves to developed reserves, we will seek to increase our production, reserves and cash flow while generating favorable returns on invested capital.



•Focus on increasing hydrocarbon recovery through horizontal development of stacked horizons.We have been developing multiple pay intervals in the Permian Basin through horizontal drilling and believe that there are opportunities to target additional intervals throughout the stratigraphic column. Our initial horizontal wells were completed in 2012, and since then we have been an active horizontal driller in the basin. We believe that our significant experience drilling, completing and operating horizontal wells will allow us to efficiently develop our remaining inventory and ultimately target other horizons that have limited development to date. The following table presents horizontal wells in which we have an interest in as ofDecember 31, 2019:

BasinNumber of Horizontal WellsMidland1,125Delaware645Total(1)1,770

(1) Of these1,770total horizontal wells, we are the operator of 1,489 producing wells and have a non-operated working interest in 281 additional wells.











The following table presents the average number of days in which we were able to drill our horizontal wells to total depth specified below during the year endedDecember 31, 2019:

Average Days to Total DepthMidland Basin7,500 foot lateral1410,000 foot lateral1513,000 foot lateral17Delaware Basin7,500 foot lateral2010,000 foot lateral2513,000 foot lateral27



Further advances in drilling and completion technology may result in economic development of zones that are not currently viable.



•Leverage our experience operating in the Permian Basin.Our executive team, which has an average of over 25 years of industry experience per person and significant experience in the Permian Basin, intends to continue to seek ways to maximize hydrocarbon recovery by refining and enhancing our drilling and completion techniques. Our focus on efficient drilling and completion techniques is an important part of the continuous drilling program we have planned for our significant inventory of identified potential drilling locations. We believe that the experience of our executive team in deviated and horizontal drilling and completions has helped reduce the execution risk normally associated with these complex well paths. In addition, our completion techniques are continually evolving as we evaluate and implement hydraulic fracturing practices that have and are expected to continue to increase recovery and reduce completion costs. Our executive team regularly evaluates our operating results against those of other operators in the area in an effort to benchmark our performance against the best performing operators and evaluate and adopt best practices.



•Enhance returns through our low cost development strategy of resource conversion, capital allocation and continued improvements in operational and cost efficiencies.Our acreage position is generally in contiguous blocks which allows us to develop this acreage efficiently with a “manufacturing” strategy that takes advantage of economies of scale and uses centralized production and fluid handling facilities. We are the operator of approximately97%of our acreage. This operational control allows us to manage more efficiently the pace of development activities and the gathering and marketing of our production and control operating costs and technical applications, including horizontal development. Our average84%working interest in our acreage allows us to realize the majority of the benefits of these activities and cost efficiencies.



•Pursue strategic acquisitions with substantial resource potential.We have a proven history of acquiring leasehold positions in the Permian Basin that have substantial oil-weighted resource potential. Our executive team, with its extensive experience in the Permian Basin, has what we believe is a competitive advantage in identifying acquisition targets and a proven ability to evaluate resource potential. We regularly review acquisition opportunities and intend to pursue acquisitions that meet our strategic and financial targets.



•Maintain financial flexibility.We seek to maintain a conservative financial position. As ofDecember 31, 2019, our borrowing base was set at$2.0 billionand we had$1.99 billionavailable for borrowing. As ofDecember 31, 2019, Viper LLC had$97 millionin outstanding borrowings, and$678 millionavailable for borrowing, under its revolving credit facility. As ofDecember 31, 2019, Rattler LLC had$424 millionin outstanding borrowings, and$176 millionavailable for borrowing, under its revolving credit facility.



Our Strengths



We believe that the following strengths will help us achieve our business goals:



•Oil rich resource base in one of North America’s leading resource plays.All of our leasehold acreage is located in one of the most prolific oil plays in North America, the Permian Basin in West Texas. The majority of our current properties are well positioned in the core of the Permian Basin. Our production for the year endedDecember 31, 2019was approximately66%oil,18%natural gas liquids and16%natural gas. As ofDecember 31, 2019, our









estimated net proved reserves were comprised of approximately63%oil,20%natural gas liquids and17%natural gas.



•Multi-year drilling inventory in one of North America’s leading oil resource plays.We have identified a multi-year inventory of potential drilling locations for our oil-weighted reserves that we believe provides attractive growth and return opportunities. At an assumed price of approximately$60.00per Bbl WTI, we currently have approximately12,310gross (8,141net) identified economic potential horizontal drilling locations on our acreage based on our evaluation of applicable geologic and engineering data. These gross identified economic potential horizontal locations have an average lateral length of approximately7,975feet, with the actual length depending on lease geometry and other considerations. These locations exist across most of our acreage blocks and in multiple horizons. The ultimate inter-well spacing may vary from these distances due to different factors, which would result in a higher or lower location count. In addition, we have approximately3,413square miles of proprietary 3-D seismic data covering our acreage. This data facilitates the evaluation of our existing drilling inventory and provides insight into future development activity, including additional horizontal drilling opportunities and strategic leasehold acquisitions.



The following table presents the number of identified economic potential horizontal drilling locations by basin:

Number of Identified Economic Potential Horizontal Drilling LocationsMidland BasinLower Spraberry(1)1,231Middle Spraberry(2)1,151Wolfcamp A(3)1,205Wolfcamp B(4)1,213Other2,237Total Midland Basin7,037Delaware Basin2nd Bone Springs(5)9573rd Bone Springs(5)1,177Wolfcamp A(6)944Wolfcamp B(6)1,050Other1,145Total Delaware Basin5,273Total12,310

(1)Our current location count is based on 660 foot to 880 foot spacing in Midland, Martin, northeast Andrews, Howard and Glasscock counties, depending on the prospect area and 880 foot spacing in all other counties.

(2)Our current location count is based on 660  foot spacing in Midland, Martin and northeast Andrews counties, depending on the prospect area and 880 foot spacing in all other counties.

(3)Our current location count is based on 660 foot to 880 foot spacing in Midland, Martin, northeast Andrews, Howard and Glasscock counties, depending on the prospect area and 880 foot spacing in all other counties.

(4)Our current location count in based on 660 foot to 880 foot spacing in Midland, Martin, northeast Andrews, Howard and Glasscock counties, depending on the prospect area and 880 foot spacing in all other counties.

(5)Our current location count is based on 880 foot to 1,320 foot spacing.

(6)Our current location count is based on 880 foot to 1,056 foot spacing.



•Experienced, incentivized and proven management team.Our executive team has an average of over 25 years of industry experience per person, most of which is focused on resource play development. This team has a proven track record of executing on multi-rig development drilling programs and extensive experience in the Permian Basin. In addition, our executive team has significant experience with both drilling and completing horizontal wells in addition to horizontal well reservoir and geologic expertise, which is of strategic importance as we expand our horizontal drilling activity. Prior to joining us, our Chief Executive Officer held management positions at Apache Corporation, Laredo Petroleum Holdings, Inc. and Burlington Resources.











•Favorable operating environment.We have focused our drilling and development operations in the Permian Basin, one of the longest operating hydrocarbon basins in the United States, with a long and well-established production history and developed infrastructure. We believe that the geological and regulatory environment of the Permian Basin is more stable and predictable, and that we are faced with less operational risks in the Permian Basin as compared to emerging hydrocarbon basins.



•High degree of operational control.We are the operator of approximately97%of our Permian Basin acreage. This operating control allows us to better execute on our strategies of enhancing returns through operational and cost efficiencies and increasing ultimate hydrocarbon recovery by seeking to continually improve our drilling techniques, completion methodologies and reservoir evaluation processes. Additionally, as the operator of substantially all of our acreage, we retain the ability to increase or decrease our capital expenditure program based on commodity price outlooks. This operating control also enables us to obtain data needed for efficient exploration of horizontal prospects.



•Access to Midstream Infrastructure and Gathering and Transportation Pipelines.  Through our publicly traded subsidiary Rattler, we have secured access to midstream infrastructure and crude oil gathering and transportation pipelines tailored to our expected production growth ramp in order to allow us the operational flexibility to execute on our growth plan. Rattler is the primary provider of midstream services to us with an acreage dedication that spans a total of approximately397,000gross acres across all of Rattler’s service lines and over the core of the Midland and Delaware Basins.
