
10-K405



                         SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                               Washington, D.C. 20549

                                      FORM 10-K
      (Mark One) 
          x       ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
                         THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                     For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996
                                         OR
                   TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                       OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
               For the transition period from .......... to ..........
                            Commission file number 1-9916

                         Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.
               (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                    Delaware                                74-2480931
          (State or other jurisdiction of                (I.R.S Employer
           incorporation or organization)               Indentification No.)


                   1615 Poydras Street
                   New Orleans, Louisiana                 70112
          (Address of principal executive offices)      (Zip Code)


        Registrant's telephone number, including area code:(504) 582-4000


             Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                Name of each exchange
           Title of each class                   on which registered
           -------------------                  ---------------------
    Class A Common Stock par value              New York Stock Exchange
     $0.10 per share                          
    Class B Common Stock par value              New York Stock Exchange
     $0.10 per share                            
    Depositary Shares representing              New York Stock Exchange
     0.05 shares of Step-Up
     Convertible Preferred Stock,
     par value $0.10 per share
    Depositary Shares representing              New York Stock Exchange
     0.05 shares of Gold-Denominated
     Preferred Stock, par value
     $0.10 per share
    Depositary Shares, Series II,               New York Stock Exchange
     representing 0.05 shares of Gold-
     Denominated Preferred Stock,
     Series II, par value $0.10 per share
    Depositary Shares representing              New York Stock Exchange
     0.025 shares of Silver-         
     Denominated Preferred Stock,
     par value $0.10 per share
    9-3/4% Senior Notes due 2001 of             New York Stock Exchange
     P.T. ALatieF Freeport Finance
     Company B.V., guaranteed by the 
     registrant

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None

               Indicate by check mark  whether the registrant (1) has  filed
          all reports required  to be filed  by Section 13  or 15(d) of  the
          Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or
          for such shorter period that the  registrant was required to  file
          such  reports),  and   (2)  has  been   subject  to  such   filing
          requirements for the past 90 days.
          Yes X  No   
               Indicate by  check mark  if disclosure  of delinquent  filers
          pursuant to Item 405  of Regulation S-K  is not contained  herein,
          and will  not  be  contained, to  the  best  of  the  registrant's
          knowledge,  in   definitive   proxy  or   information   statements
          incorporated by reference  in Part III  of this Form  10-K or  any
          amendment to this Form 10-K.   X 
               The  aggregate  market  value  of  classes  of  voting  stock
          (common and preferred) held by non-affiliates of the registrant on
          March 14, 1996 was approximately $5,766,600,000.
               On  March  14,  1996   there  were  issued  and   outstanding
          83,043,544 shares of Class A  Common Stock and 117,616,548  shares
          of Class B Common Stock.

                         DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

               Portions of  the registrant's Annual  Report to  stockholders
          for the year ended December 31, 1996 are incorporated by reference
          into Parts II  and IV  of this Report  and portions  of the  Proxy
          Statement dated  March  20,  1997 submitted  to  the  registrant's
          stockholders in connection with its 1997 Annual Meeting to be held
          on April 29, 1997 are incorporated  by reference into Part III  of
          this Report.

                                   [COVER]



                                                                                                          Page
          Part I
          Items 1. and 2. Business and Properties..........................1
          Item 3.   Legal Proceedings.....................................12
          Item 4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders...12
                    Executive Officers of the Registrant..................13

          Part II
          Item 5.   Market for Registrant's Common Equity
                    and Related Stockholder Matters.......................14
          Item 6.   Selected Financial Data...............................14
          Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
                    Condition and Results of Operations ..................14
          Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data...........14
          Item 9.   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
                    Accounting and Financial Disclosure ..................14

          Part III
          Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant....14
          Item 11.  Executive Compensation................................15
          Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
                    and Management........................................15
          Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions........15

          Part IV
          Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on
                    Form 8-K..............................................15

          Signatures.....................................................S-1

          Index to Financial Statements..................................F-1

          Report of Independent Public Accountants.......................F-1

          Exhibit Index..................................................E-1

                                [PAGE] i


                                        PART I

          Items 1. and 2.  Business and Properties.

          General

               Freeport-McMoRan Copper &  Gold Inc., a Delaware  corporation
          ("FCX" or the "Company"), is one of the world's largest copper and
          gold companies in terms of  reserves and production, and  believes
          that it has one of the lowest cost copper producing operations  in
          the world, taking into account customary credits for related  gold
          and silver production.

               FCX's  principal  operating   subsidiary  is  P.T.   Freeport
          Indonesia Company ("PT-FI"), a limited liability company organized
          under the laws of  the Republic of  Indonesia and domesticated  in
          Delaware.  PT-FI engages in  the exploration for and  development,
          mining and processing of ore containing copper, gold and silver in
          Irian Jaya, Indonesia  pursuant to  an agreement  (a "Contract  of
          Work" or "COW") with the government  of the Republic of  Indonesia
          (the "Indonesian Government")  and in the  worldwide marketing  of
          concentrates containing those metals. FCX owns directly an  81.28%
          interest in PT-FI.   Of the  remaining 18.72%, 9.36%  is owned  by
          each of the  Indonesian Government and  P.T. Indocopper  Investama
          Corporation, an Indonesian limited liability company ("PT-II"), in
          which FCX  owns a  49% interest,  giving FCX  an aggregate  85.87%
          ownership interest in PT-FI. PT-FI's operations are located in the
          remote rugged  highlands of  the Sudirman  Mountain Range  in  the
          province of Irian Jaya, Indonesia, located on the western half  of
          the island  of  New  Guinea.   The  PT-FI  COW  permits  extensive
          exploration, mining  and  production  activities  in  an  original
          24,700 acre area,  referred to as  "Block A,"  and an  exploration
          area originally  consisting  of approximately  6.5  million  acres
          referred to as  "Block B."   PT-FI's largest  mine, Grasberg,  was
          discovered in Block A in 1988 and contains the largest single gold
          reserve and one of the three  largest open-pit copper reserves  of
          any mine in the world.  In 1996, FCX and The RTZ-CRA Group  ("RTZ-
          CRA") established joint  ventures pursuant to  which RTZ-CRA  will
          acquire an undivided 40% interest in future production  expansions
          and certain development activities in the areas covered by the PT-
          FI COW. 

               Through  P.T. IRJA  Eastern  Minerals  Corporation  ("Eastern
          Mining"), FCX holds  an additional  COW in  Irian Jaya  originally
          covering an  approximately  2.5  million  acre  exploration  area.
          Eastern Mining was formed  in 1994 for  the purpose of  acquiring,
          holding and developing the Eastern Mining COW. FCX owns 90% of the
          outstanding common stock of Eastern Mining through a wholly  owned
          subsidiary, and the remaining 10% is owned by PT-II, giving FCX an
          aggregate 94.9% ownership  interest in Eastern  Mining.  In  1996,
          FCX and RTZ-CRA established a joint venture pursuant to which RTZ-
          CRA will acquire an undivided 40% interest in certain  development
          activities in areas covered by the Eastern Mining COW.

               In February  1997, subject  to certain  conditions  described
          below, FCX  agreed to  acquire a  15% interest  in two  Indonesian
          companies that  are expected  to be  granted COWs  to explore  and
          develop minerals in the Busang II and Busang III exploration areas
          in East Kalimantan, Indonesia.   Each company will be owned 45% by
          BRE-X  Minerals  Ltd.  ("BRE-X"),  40%  by  Indonesian  interests,
          including  the  Indonesian  Government,  and  15%  by  FCX.    The
          participants have appointed FCX as the  operator of the Busang  II
          and Busang III properties.  FCX  has agreed to provide 25% of  the
          total  estimated  cost  of   delineating  a  proven  reserve   and
          constructing the initial Busang mine complex, up to $400  million.
           Additionally, FCX  has agreed  to arrange  up to  a $1.2  billion
          project financing commitment for the remaining estimated costs  of
          the initial Busang mine complex.  The transactions are subject  to
          the confirmation to the  satisfaction of FCX  of the existence  of
          one or more commercially viable  gold or other mineral  resources,
          the receipt  of  COWs  and other  approvals  from  the  Indonesian
          Government,  the   approval  of   a  feasibility   study  by   the
          commissioners and  directors of  the  Indonesian companies  to  be
          formed to own the Busang II and  Busang III COWs and the board  of
          directors of  FCX,  and to  certain  other conditions.    FCX  has
          commenced a due diligence review of  the Busang properties and  on
          March 26, 1997,  announced that it  had drilled  seven core  holes
          within the Busang II project area  to confirm the results of  core
          holes previously drilled  by BRE-X.   To date,  analyses of  these
          cores, which remain incomplete, indicate insignificant amounts  of
          gold.  Representatives of BRE-X met  with FCX's technical team  in
          Jakarta,  Indonesia  on  March  26,   1997,  at  which  time   all
          information  available  to   FCX  was  presented   to  the   BRE-X
          representatives.  FCX  was informed by  BRE-X that,  based on  the
          recommendation of BRE-X's independent technical consultants, BRE-X
          was undertaking a  review that includes  drilling additional  core
          holes in the Busang II area.  In addition, BRE-X advised FCX  that
          its independent  technical  consultants had  informed  BRE-X  that
          there appears to be a strong  possibility that the potential  gold
          resources

                                       [PAGE] 1

          on the  Busang project as  previously reported by  BRE-X
          have been overstated  because of invalid  samples and assaying  of
          those samples.

               FCX is also  engaged in the smelting  and refining of  copper
          concentrates  in  Spain   through  its   indirect,  wholly   owned
          subsidiary, Atlantic Copper  Holding, S.A. ("Atlantic"),  formerly
          Rio Tinto Minera, S.A.   Atlantic completed  the expansion of  its
          smelter from 150,000 to 270,000 metric tons of metal per year  and
          reached full capacity in June 1996.   PT-FI also has a 25% joint  
          venture interest in a copper smelter being constructed in  Gresik,
          East Java, Indonesia  having a design  capacity of 200,000  metric
          tons of copper cathode  per year.  The  smelter is expected to  be
          fully operational  during  the  second half  of  1998  and  it  is
          anticipated that PT-FI  will provide all  of the smelter's  copper
          concentrate.

          Republic of Indonesia

               The  Republic  of Indonesia  consists  of  more  than  17,000
          islands stretching 3,000 miles along the equator from Malaysia  to
          Australia and is the fourth most populous nation in the world with
          almost  200  million  citizens.  Following  many  years  of  Dutch
          colonial rule, Indonesia gained independence in 1945 and now has a
          presidential republic system of government in which  parliamentary
          and presidential elections  are held every  five years.  President
          Suharto, who assumed power in 1966  and is now 75, was  re-elected
          in 1993 to a sixth consecutive five-year term.

               Maintaining   a  good   relationship  with   the   Indonesian
          Government is of particular importance to the Company because  all
          of its mining operations are located in Indonesia. PT-FI's  mining
          complex was Indonesia's  first copper mining  project and was  the
          first major foreign investment in Indonesia following the economic
          development program instituted  by the  Suharto administration  in
          1967. PT-FI works closely with  the central, provincial and  local
          governments  in  development  efforts  in  the  vicinity  of   its
          operations. The Company's current  mining operations in  Indonesia
          are conducted through PT-FI by virtue of the PT-FI COW and through
          Eastern Mining by virtue of the Eastern Mining COW, both of  which
          have 30-year  terms,  provide  for two  10-year  extensions  under
          certain conditions, and govern PT-FI's and Eastern Mining's rights
          and obligations relating to taxes, exchange controls, repatriation
          and other matters. Both COWs were  concluded pursuant to the  1967
          Foreign  Capital  Investment  Law,  which  expresses   Indonesia's
          foreign  investment  policy  and  provides  basic  guarantees   of
          remittance  rights  and  protection  against  nationalization,   a
          framework for economic incentives and basic rules regarding  other
          rights and obligations of foreign investors.

               PT-FI's  current  mining   operations  are  located  in   the
          Indonesian province of Irian Jaya, which occupies the western half
          of the island of  New Guinea and became  part of Indonesia  during
          the early 1960s. The  area surrounding PT-FI's mining  development
          is  sparsely  populated  by  primitive  local  tribes  and  former
          residents of more populous areas of  Indonesia, some of whom  have
          resettled  in  Irian  Jaya   under  the  Indonesian   Government's
          transmigration program. Certain  members of  the local  population
          oppose  Indonesian  rule  over  Irian  Jaya,  and  several   small
          separatist groups seek  political independence  for the  province.
          Sporadic attacks on civilians by the separatists and sporadic  but
          highly publicized conflicts between separatists and the Indonesian
          military have led to allegations of human rights violations. PT-FI
          personnel  have  not  been  involved  in  those  conflicts.    The
          Indonesian  military  occasionally  has  exercised  its  right  to
          appropriate transportation and other equipment of PT-FI to use  in
          its security operations.

               PT-FI's  policy  has  been  to  operate  in  Irian  Jaya   in
          compliance with all Indonesian laws and in a manner that  improves
          the lives of the local population.  PT-FI incurs significant costs
          associated  with  its  social  and  cultural  activities.     Such
          activities include  comprehensive  job  training  programs,  basic
          education programs, extensive malaria  control and several  public
          health programs,  agricultural  assistance  programs,  a  business
          incubator program to encourage the local people to establish their
          own small scale  businesses, cultural  preservation programs,  and
          charitable donations.  In March  1996, there were disturbances  in
          the mining town of Tembagapura and the lowlands town of Timika  in
          which area tribesmen engaged in acts of vandalism that resulted in
          approximately $3  million  of damage  to  Company property  and  a
          three-day closure  of PT-FI's  mine and  mill as  a  precautionary
          measure.  Concentrate shipments to customers were not  interrupted
          and there have been  no further disruptions  since the March  1996
          event.  Following these disturbances and as a result of subsequent
          meetings with tribal leaders, the Company, in cooperation with the
          Indonesian Government,  agreed  to redistribute  and  refocus  its
          community development programs by dedicating 1% of PT-FI's  annual
          revenues over the  next ten years  to fund  these activities  and,
          among other things, to  increase the number  of local Irianese  in
          its work force.  The Indonesian  Government agreed as part of  its
          development  efforts  in  Irian  Jaya  to  create  an   integrated
          development plan calling for the participation of the local tribes
          in  the  creation  and  administration  of  community  development
          projects

                                 [PAGE] 2

          funded by  the Company.   While management believes  that
          its efforts to be responsive to the issues relating to the  impact
          of its  operations  on the  local  tribes should  serve  to  avoid
          further disruptions  of mining  operations, social  and  political
          instability in the area may, in the future, have an adverse impact
          on PT-FI's mining operations.

               As described under  "Environmental Matters," the Company  has
          elected to terminate all political risk insurance.

          Contracts of Work

               The PT-FI COW covers  both Block A, which was originally  the
          subject  of  a  1967  COW  between  PT-FI's  predecessor  and  the
          Indonesian Government, and Block B, to which PT-FI gained rights  
          in 1991. The  initial term of  the PT-FI COW  expires in  December
          2021 with  provisions for  two  10-year extensions  under  certain
          conditions.   Pursuant to  the PT-FI  COW,  PT-FI is  required  to
          relinquish its rights to portions of  Block B in amounts equal  to
          25% of the original 6.5 million acres at the end of each of  three
          specified periods during a span of four to seven years,  depending
          on extensions requested  by PT-FI  and granted  by the  Indonesian
          Government.  The acreage to be released is determined by PT-FI and
          need not  be contiguous.    PT-FI relinquished  approximately  1.7
          million acres in December 1994 and approximately 1.6 million acres
          in December  1995.   The final  25% relinquishment  will occur  no
          later than December 1998 depending on extensions requested by  PT-
          FI and  granted  by the  Indonesian  Government.     In  order  to
          determine  which   acreage  to   relinquish  pursuant   to   these
          requirements, PT-FI has  conducted an  active exploration  program
          since 1989,  focusing  on  what PT-FI  believes  to  be  the  most
          promising exploration opportunities in Block B.

               In  August  1994, Eastern  Mining  was  granted  the  Eastern
          Mining COW originally covering approximately 2.5 million acres  in
          three separate  blocks.   The Eastern  Mining COW  provides for  a
          four-to-seven year exploratory term and a 30-year term for  actual
          mining operations with provisions for two 10-year extensions under
          certain conditions.   Like the  PT-FI COW, the Eastern Mining  COW
          requires Eastern Mining to relinquish its right to portions of the
          Eastern Mining COW  area determined by  Eastern Mining in  amounts
          equal to 25% of  the original approximately  2.5 million acres  at
          the  end  of  each  of  three   specified  periods.    The   first
          relinquishment, of approximately  0.7 million  acres, occurred  in
          August 1996.   Eastern Mining  must relinquish  an additional  1.2
          million acres  in two  approximately equal  installments no  later
          than August 1998 and August 2001.

          Ore Reserves

               All of  PT-FI's proved and  probable reserves, including  the
          Grasberg deposit, lie within  Block A.   In 1996, PT-FI  increased
          its proved  and probable  reserves  by approximately  161  million
          metric tons of ore.  As  a result, PT-FI's total estimated  proved
          and  probable  recoverable  reserves  as  of  December  31,   1996
          increased  over  the  December  31,   1995  level,  net  of   1996
          production, by  2.9 billion  pounds of  copper (7%),  3.2  million
          ounces of gold (6%)  and 7.6 million ounces  of silver (7%).   PT-
          FI's estimated proved and probable recoverable reserves, on a 100%
          basis, as of December 31, 1996 were 43.2 billion pounds of copper,
          55.3 million ounces of gold and  118.7 million ounces of silver.  
          Under its agreements  with RTZ-CRA, PT-FI  is entitled to  receive
          specified quantities of copper, gold and silver produced  annually
          from the  first  118,000  MTPD of  ore  mined  each  year  through
          approximately 2021.    Upon completion  of the ongoing  expansion,
          RTZ-CRA will be entitled to receive, with limited exceptions,  40%
          of any production in excess of  these amounts produced within  the
          PT-FI COW  and Eastern  Mining COW  areas  pursuant to  the  joint
          ventures described under "Exploration."

               Of the  increase in  proved and  probable reserves  in  1996,
          approximately one-half resulted from initial delineation  drilling
          at the Kucing Liar ore body.  As of December 31, 1996, the  Kucing
          Liar deposit contained  82.3 million metric  tons of   proved  and
          probable ore reserves at  an average grade  of 1.28% copper,  1.42
          grams of gold per metric ton  and 3.14 grams of silver per  metric
          ton.

               The  Grasberg  deposit  contains  the  largest  single   gold
          reserve and is one of the  three largest open-pit copper  reserves
          of any mine in the world.  The Grasberg deposit contains  combined
          open pit and underground  proved and probable  ore reserves as  of
          December 31, 1996 of 1.73 billion metric tons at an average  grade
          of 1.13% copper, 1.22 grams of gold per metric ton and 3.21  grams
          of silver per metric ton.

                                     [PAGE] 3

               The  Company's reserves  as of  December  31, 1995  and  1996
          included  herein  have   been  verified   by  Independent   Mining
          Consultants, Inc., and such reserve information has been  included
          herein in reliance upon the authority  of such firm as experts  in
          mining,  geology  and  reserve  determination.    See  "Cautionary
          Statement."

          Mining Operations

               Mines  in  Production.  PT-FI  currently  has  two  mines  in
          operation: the Grasberg and the Intermediate Ore Zone (the "IOZ"),
          both within Block  A. Open  pit mining  of the  Grasberg ore  body
          commenced in January 1990,  and in 1996  the Grasberg mine  output
          totaled approximately 42.4 million  metric tons of ore,  providing
          approximately 92% percent of PT-FI's total ore production in 1996.
          The IOZ  is an  underground block  cave operation  that came  into
          production in the first half of  1994. The production level is  at
          the 3,550 meter  elevation level, approximately  150 meters  below
          the Ertsberg East deposit, which was  depleted in the second  half
          of 1994.  In 1996, output from the IOZ mine totaled  approximately
          3.7 million metric tons of ore.

               Mines  in Development.  Four  other significant  ore  bodies,
          referred to as the Deep Ore Zone ("DOZ"), the DOM, the Big  Gossan
          and Kucing Liar  are located  in Block A.   These  ore bodies  are
          currently at various  stages of  development, and  are carried  as
          proved and probable reserves.  See "Cautionary Statement."

               The  DOZ ore  body lies  vertically  below the  IOZ.  Initial
          production from  the  DOZ  ore body  commenced  in  1989  but  was
          suspended in  favor  of  production  from  the  Grasberg  deposit.
          Production is  anticipated  to  recommence as  the  overlying  IOZ
          reserve is depleted.

               The DOM  ore body lies  approximately 1,200 meters  southeast
          of the depleted Ertsberg East deposit. Pre-production  development
          was completed as the Grasberg began  open pit production in  1990,
          and all  maintenance,  warehouse  and service  facilities  are  in
          place. Production at the DOM ore body was deferred as a result  of
          the  increasing  reserves  and  production  capabilities  of   the
          Grasberg.

               The Kucing Liar  ore body lies on  the southern flank of  and
          underneath the southern  portion of the  Grasberg open  pit.   The
          Kucing Liar ore  body as indicated  by drilling,  is an  extensive
          skarn-type copper and gold  mineralization that, based on  current
          information, could represent as much as  a 250 million metric  ton
          geologic resource at an  average grade of  greater than 2%  copper
          equivalent.

               The  Big  Gossan ore  body  is  located  approximately  1,000
          meters  southwest  of  the  original  Ertsberg  deposit.   Initial
          underground development of the ore body began in 1993 when tunnels
          were driven from  the mill  area into the  ore zone  at the  2,900
          meter elevation level. A variety of stopping methods will be  used
          to mine the deposit, with production expected to commence as other
          underground mines are depleted.

          Exploration

               In addition to continued delineation of the Grasberg  deposit
          and other  deposits discussed  under  "Ore Reserves"  and  "Mining
          Operations," PT-FI is  continuing its  exploration program  within
          Block A.  The Company's continuing exploration of areas underneath
          and around the Grasberg complex  has also intersected the  fringes
          of "heavy  sulfide"  skarn-type mineralization  that  the  Company
          believes may surround  the Grasberg complex.   As  the Amole  adit
          progresses into  the  Grasberg ore  body,  additional  exploration
          drilling will be conducted to test the western and northern flanks
          of the Grasberg complex  for Kucing Liar   type mineralization  as
          well as for "heavy  sulfide" skarn-type mineralization around  the
          fringes of the  Grasberg ore body.   Drilling  in Lembah  Tembaga,
          approximately one kilometer southwest of the Grasberg deposit, has
          identified an inferred resource that may contain up to 100 million
          metric tons with  an average grade  of approximately 1.25%  copper
          and 0.5  grams  of gold  per  metric ton.    Exploration  drilling
          continues at other targets including the IOZ/DOZ Extensions,  Guru
          East, Idenberg,  West  Grasberg,  DOM-SE and  Kay,  while  surface
          geological evaluations continue  to develop targets  at the  South
          Wanagon, Zaagkam Ridge, VN and Wanagon prospects.

               Exploration  of   Block  B   has  indicated   more  than   70
          exploration targets, and follow-up exploration of these  anomalies
          is now in progress.  PT-FI has focused its Block B drilling in  an
          area 35 kilometers  north of the  Grasberg deposit  at a  prospect
          called Wabu, which lies within the Hitalipa District. Although the
          area requires  additional

                               [PAGE] 4

          exploratory drilling,  initial  results
          indicate a large  mineralized district  that covers  approximately
          75,000 acres, as compared  to the original  24,700-acre Block A.  
          Because of its  size and number  of geologic  leads, the  Hitalipa
          District is likely to be explored for many years. Drilling results
          are being interpreted, and no assurance  can be given that any  of
          these new areas contain commercially exploitable mineral deposits.

               Aggregate 1996 exploration expenditures within the PT-FI  COW
          and Eastern Mining COW areas were $39.2 million.  These costs  are
          not reflected  as an  expense in  the Company's  income  statement
          because  RTZ-CRA  has  funded  its  $100  million  commitment  for
          exploration costs.  Exploration costs in excess of RTZ-CRA's  $100
          million commitment will be shared 60% by FCX and 40% by RTZ-CRA.  
          Through 1996,  the joint  venture had  incurred approximately  $70
          million of  exploration  costs  covered by  the  RTZ-CRA  funding,
          including $17.8 million in Block A,  $27.5 million in Block B  and
          $24.7 million in the Eastern Mining COW area.

          Milling and Production

               The ore from  PT-FI's mines moves by  a conveyor system to  a
          series of ore passes  through which it drops  to the mill  complex
          located at  approximately 2,900  meters above  sea level.  At  the
          mill, the ore is crushed and ground and mixed in tanks with  water
          and small amounts  of chemical reagents  where it is  continuously
          agitated  with  air.  During  this  physical  separation  process,
          copper-bearing particles  rise to  the top  of the  tanks and  are
          collected and thickened. The  concentrate leaves the mill  complex
          as a thickened concentrate slurry, consisting of approximately 65%
          solids  by  weight,  and  is  pumped  through  two  115  kilometer
          pipelines to  the port  site facility  at  Amamapare where  it  is
          filtered, dried and stored for shipping. Ships are loaded at  dock
          facilities at the port until they  draw their maximum water,  then
          move to deeper  water, where loading  is completed from  shuttling
          barges.

               In  1996,  FCX  produced  1.12  billion  pounds  of   copper,
          approximately 14%  more than  in 1995,  and 1,695,200   ounces  of
          gold, approximately 29% more than  in 1995, resulting from  record
          average ore throughput of 127,400 MTPD, as compared to an  average
          of 111,900 MTPD for 1995.  Average cash production costs in  1996,
          net of customary gold and silver  credits, were  $0.168 per  pound
          of copper, 30% less than the comparable 1995 average.

               During 1996,  recovery  rates averaged  83.8% of  the  copper
          content, 77.1% of the gold content and 64.6% of the silver content
          of  the  ore  processed,  compared  to  85.0%,  74.3%  and  63.2%,
          respectively, during 1995.

               FCX  and  RTZ-CRA have  begun  construction  on  the  "fourth
          concentrator mill expansion" of  PT-FI's facilities.  The  optimum
          rate following the expansion is expected  to be at least  190,000-
          200,000 MTPD,  which  will  be subject  to  the  approval  of  the
          Indonesian Government.   Completion is  expected during  mid-1998.
          Costs for the expansion are expected to approximate $960  million,
          including both working capital and  $300 million for a  coal-fired
          power plant and related facilities.  The new power facilities  are
          expected to be  sold in 1998  to the joint  venture that owns  the
          assets that  presently provide  electricity to  PT-FI.   Following
          commencement  of  concentrate  production  from  PT-FI's  expanded
          mining and milling capacity financed by RTZ-CRA, RTZ-CRA will have
          a 40%  interest in  future production  exceeding specified  annual
          amounts of copper, gold and silver  estimated to be produced  from
          the  first  118,000   MTPD  of   ore  mined   each  year   through
          approximately 2021.   To  finance the  expansion, subsidiaries  of
          RTZ-CRA will  provide up  to $750  million for  defined costs,  of
          which 40% will be funded directly and 60% will be loaned to  PT-FI
          on a nonrecourse basis.  The  parties will share incremental  cash
          flow attributable to such expansion projects  on the basis of  60%
          to PT-FI and  40% to RTZ-CRA.   PT-FI will  assign to RTZ-CRA  its
          interest in such incremental cash flow until RTZ-CRA has  received
          an amount of funds from such assigned interest equal to the  funds
          lent to PT-FI plus interest based on RTZ-CRA's cost of  borrowing.
          In 1996, RTZ-CRA funded $125.6 million of expansion costs  ($75.4
          million of which was loaned to PT-FI).

          Gresik Smelter

               In July 1996, construction  commenced on a copper smelter  in
          Gresik, East Java, Indonesia having  a design capacity of  200,000
          metric tons  of  copper  cathode  per  year.    PT-FI,  Mitsubishi
          Materials   Corporation   ("Mitsubishi   Materials"),   Mitsubishi
          Corporation ("Mitsubishi") and  Nippon Mining &  Metals Co.,  Ltd.
          ("Nippon") own 25%, 60.5%, 9.5% and 5% interests, respectively, in
          the smelter.  The estimated aggregate project cost, before working
          capital requirements, is  approximately $625 million.   The  joint
          venture has  a  $300 million  nonrecourse  term loan  and  a  $110
          million working  capital facility  with a  group  of banks.    The
          remainder of  the  required funding  will  be provided  by  PT-FI,

                                  [PAGE] 5

          Mitsubishi Materials,  Mitsubishi and  Nippon in  accordance  with
          their interests.    Construction is  expected to  be completed  in
          mid-1998 and  the  smelter is  expected  to be  fully  operational
          during the second half of 1998.  It is anticipated that PT-FI will
          provide all of  the smelter's copper  concentrate requirements  at
          market rates  subject to  a floor  during the  first 15  years  of
          operations.  PT-FI has  also agreed to  assign, if necessary,  its
          share of any  dividends from the  joint venture to  support a  13%
          annual return to Mitsubishi  Materials, Mitsubishi and Nippon  for
          the first 20 years of commercial operations. 

          Infrastructure Improvements

               The location of PT-FI's  current operations in a remote  area
          requires that  such operations  be virtually  self-sufficient.  In
          addition to the mining facilities described above, the  facilities
          originally constructed  by  or  with the  participation  of  PT-FI
          include an  airport,  a port,  a  119 kilometer  road,  an  aerial
          tramway, a hospital and two town  sites with housing, schools  and
          other facilities sufficient to support more than 17,000 persons.

               In 1996,  PT-FI completed  the first  phase of  the  Enhanced
          Infrastructure   Program   ("EIP"),    which   includes    various
          residential, community  and commercial  facilities.   The  EIP  is
          designed  to  provide  the   infrastructure  needed  for   PT-FI's
          operations, to enhance the living conditions of PT-FI's employees,
          and to develop  and promote the  growth of local  and other  third
          party activities  and enterprises  in Irian  Jaya.   The full  EIP
          includes plans for  various commercial, residential,  educational,
          retail,   medical,   recreational,    environmental   and    other
          infrastructure facilities to be  constructed over a  ten-to-twenty
          year period.  The facilities constructed through the EIP have been
          and are  expected to  continue to  be developed  by PT-FI  through
          joint ventures  or  direct ownership  involving  local  Indonesian
          interests  and  other  investors.    In  1996,  the  Company  also
          dedicated 1% of PT-FI's annual revenues over the next ten years to
          continue  related   initiatives   as  part   of   the   Indonesian
          Government's integrated development plan for continuing  community
          development projects. 

          Marketing

               PT-FI   supplies    copper   concentrates,   which    contain
          significant quantities of gold and silver,  primarily to Asian and
          European smelters and international trading companies. All of  PT-
          FI's  concentrate  sales  are  made  in  United  States   dollars.
          Substantially  all  of  PT-FI's  budgeted  production  of   copper
          concentrates is sold under long-term contracts, pursuant to  which
          the selling price is based on  world metals prices (generally  the
          London Metal  Exchange  ("LME")  settlement  prices  for  Grade  A
          copper) less certain  allowances. Under  these contracts,  initial
          billing occurs at the time of shipment and final settlement on the
          copper portion generally occurs  three months after arrival  based
          on average LME prices  for that month. Gold  generally is sold  at
          the London Bullion Market Association average price for the  month
          of shipment. Revenues from concentrate  sales are recorded net  of
          royalties,  treatment  and  refining  costs  and  the  impact   of
          derivative financial instruments,  if any, used  to hedge  against
          risks from copper  and gold price  fluctuations. Per unit  royalty
          payments to  the  Indonesian Government  increase  with  increased
          copper values and range from 1.5% to 3.5% of copper prices at  the
          time of shipment, net of delivery costs and treatment and refining
          charges. A 1% royalty is paid to the Indonesian Government on gold
          and silver sales. Treatment and refining costs represent  payments
          to smelters and refiners and are either fixed or in certain  cases
          float with  the  price  of copper.  A  small  portion  of  PT-FI's
          budgeted production of copper concentrates, and any production  in
          excess of  budgeted amounts,  is sold  in the  spot market.    See
          "Cautionary Statement."

               PT-FI has  obtained commitments,  including commitments  from
          Atlantic, for  essentially all  of its  expected 1997  concentrate
          sales, which are  currently estimated to  yield approximately  1.1
          billion pounds of  copper and 1.65  million ounces  of gold.  1997
          sales are  anticipated  to  reflect  management's  expectation  of
          producing higher than  mine life average  grades during the  year;
          however, first-quarter 1997 production will be adversely  affected
          by the  anticipated mining  of lower  grade ore.  In addition,  at
          December 31,  1996, copper  sales totaling  301.2 million  pounds,
          which were  recorded in  1996 at  an average  price of  $0.96  per
          pound, remained  to be  contractually priced  and are  subject  to
          price adjustments during 1997.

               Approximately 12% and 25% of PT-FI's total concentrate  sales
          in 1995 and  1996, respectively, were  to Atlantic.   PT-FI has  a
          long-term contract to provide  Atlantic with approximately 50%  of
          its copper  concentrate  requirements at  market  prices.     Upon
          completion of the Gresik smelter discussed under "Gresik Smelter,"
          FCX  anticipates  that   approximately  25%   of  PT-FI's   copper
          concentrates (based upon assumed production of 190,000 MTPD)  will
          be sold to the Gresik smelter at market prices.

                                   [PAGE] 6

          Competition

               PT-FI competes  with other mining  companies in  the sale  of
          its mineral  concentrates and  the  recruitment and  retention  of
          qualified personnel.  Some competing  companies possess  financial
          resources equal  to or  greater than  those of  PT-FI.  Management
          believes, however, that  PT-FI is one  of the  lowest cost  copper
          producers in the  world, taking into  account credits for  related
          gold and silver production.

          Environmental Matters

               Mining  operations on  the  scale of  PT-FI's  operations  in
          Irian Jaya involve significant environmental challenges, primarily
          related to the disposition of tailings, which are the crushed  and
          ground rock  material resulting  from the  physical separation  of
          commercially valuable minerals  from the ore.  The Company has  an
          extensive, ongoing management system for the disposal of  tailings
          in connection with discharging them into a river system downstream
          from its milling  operations. In January  1997, PT-FI completed  a
          levee  system,  as  part  of  its  Indonesian  Government-approved
          Tailings and River Management Plan, to minimize the impact of  the
          tailings on the  environment by  containing them  in a  controlled
          deposition area that ultimately will be reclaimed and revegetated.

               The  Company  also  has  performed  an  environmental  impact
          assessment of  a  proposed  production  expansion  of  mining  and
          milling operations  to  160,000 MTPD  and  related  infrastructure
          improvements.  The  assessment was conducted,  and the  management
          and monitoring  plans were  developed, by  a team  of  independent
          environmental  experts  and  were   approved  by  the   Indonesian
          Government.  The Indonesian Government's approval process for  the
          management and monitoring  plans was challenged  by an  Indonesian
          environmental activist  group in  early  1995, but  an  Indonesian
          administrative court ruled against the challenge in October  1995,
          and the ruling  is now on  appeal.  Management  believes that  the
          challenge is without merit and will  have no material effect  upon
          FCX, PT-FI or any of their  respective assets or operations.   The
          Company and  RTZ-CRA  have commenced  construction  activities  in
          connection with the expansion to  160,000 MTPD and have  commenced
          activities in connection  with the further  expansion to at  least
          190,000-200,000 MTPD, which will require a separate  environmental
          impact assessment, environmental management plan and environmental
          monitoring plan,  as well  as Indonesian  Governmental approval.  
          Management believes that all  necessary approvals can be  obtained
          although no assurance  can be given  that such  approvals will  be
          granted on acceptable terms or at all.

               Management   believes  that   PT-FI  operations   are   being
          conducted pursuant to all necessary  permits and in compliance  in
          all material  respects  with applicable  Indonesian  environmental
          laws, rules and  regulations.  Management  also believes that  its
          current operations have not had,  and that its expanded  operation
          will not have, a significant adverse  impact on the environment.  
          However, in  the  last two  years  various groups  have  expressed
          heightened concerns  about  the environmental  impact  of  PT-FI's
          operations, and in October  1995, the Overseas Private  Investment
          Corporation ("OPIC"), a  quasi-governmental agency  of the  United
          States, sought to terminate  the Company's $100 million  political
          risk insurance, citing, among other things, environmental concerns
          about PT-FI's  expanded operations.    The Company  believed  that
          there was neither a factual nor  a legal basis for OPIC's  action,
          and the  matter  was  submitted to  arbitration  even  though  the
          availability of the insurance is  not financially material to  the
          Company.  In April 1996, the Company and OPIC agreed to  terminate
          the arbitration proceedings.   As  part of  this settlement,  OPIC
          agreed to reinstate  the political risk  insurance until  December
          31, 1996, and the  Company agreed to create  a trust fund that  it
          will manage to finance environmental reclamation initiatives.  The
          Company  will  make  annual   contributions  to  the  trust   fund
          accumulating to  a total  of $100  million at  the end  of  mining
          operations.   In September  1996, FCX  notified OPIC  and  certain
          other insurers that it elected to  terminate all of its  political
          risk insurance.

               In 1995, PT-FI  participated in an independent  environmental
          audit of its Irian  Jaya operations under  a program monitored  by
          the Indonesian  Government.   The environmental  audit report  was
          released in April 1996 and included a total of 33 recommendations,
          22 of which have already been implemented or are in the process of
          being implemented  by PT-FI  and 11  of  which are  under  various
          phases of study.   PT-FI  is committed  to carrying  out the  full
          scope of the recommendations from the  audit and all are  expected
          to be implemented by the end  of 1997.  The audit team  identified
          the disposal of tailings as the most critical environmental  issue
          facing  PT-FI,  requiring   significant  study,  engineering   and
          monitoring over the life  of the mine.   The audit concluded  that
          PT-FI's Tailings and  River Management Plan  represented

                                  [PAGE] 7

          the  most suitable option for tailings disposal considering the
          engineering and environmental challenges in Irian Jaya. The audit 
          also confirmed that the tailings from PT-FI's mining operations are
          non-toxic, the mining operations do not pose any significant  risk
          to Irian  Jaya's bio-diversity  and PT-FI's  operations are  being
          conducted in all material  respects in compliance with  applicable
          Indonesian environmental  laws,  rules  and  regulations.    PT-FI
          intends to implement a program of independent external audits  and
          continue its  internal  audits  through the  life  of  its  mining
          operations so that PT-FI's environmental management and monitoring
          programs  remain  sound  to  ensure  compliance  in  all  material
          respects with applicable Indonesian environmental laws, rules  and
          regulations and to  preserve and  protect the  environment in  its
          area of operations.

               In 1995, PT-FI  also began to  participate in an  independent
          social/cultural audit of its Irian Jaya operations under a program
          monitored by  the  Indonesian  Government.   The  audit  is  being
          conducted  by  Labatt  Anderson,   which  is  an   internationally
          recognized consulting  firm  based  in the  United  States.    The
          social/cultural audit is continuing, but the interim results  were
          submitted to the  Indonesian Government in  the second quarter  of
          1996.   Labatt Anderson  made 17  recommendations in  its  interim
          report, all of which had previously  been implemented by PT-FI  or
          have been implemented since the interim report was submitted.

               Management   believes   that   Atlantic's   facilities    and
          operations are in  compliance in  all material  respects with  all
          applicable Spanish  environmental  laws,  rules  and  regulations.
          Atlantic recently  completed  modifications to  and  expanded  its
          sulfuric acid plants, which has resulted in significant reductions
          in  air  emissions.  In  addition,  Atlantic  expects  to  realize
          significant additional environmental improvements upon  completion
          of other projects currently under way.

               The  Indonesian  and  Spanish  governments  may  periodically
          revise their environmental laws and regulations or adopt new ones,
          and the  effects on  the Company's  operations of  new or  revised
          regulations cannot be predicted.

               The  Company   has  expended   significant  resources,   both
          financial and managerial, to comply with environmental regulations
          and permitting and approval requirements, and anticipates that  it
          will continue to do so in the  future.  There can be no  assurance
          that additional  significant costs  and  liabilities will  not  be
          incurred to comply  with such  current and  future regulations  or
          that such  regulations will  not have  a  material effect  on  the
          Company's operations.  See "Cautionary Statement."

          Sale of PT-II Stock

               PT Nusamba  Mineral Industri ("Nusamba"),  a special  purpose
          subsidiary of PT  Nusantara Ampera Bakti,  acquired in March  1997
          approximately 51% of the capital stock of PT-II not owned by  FCX.
          Nusamba financed $254 million of the $315 million purchase  price
          with a commercial loan.   FCX has agreed that if Nusamba  defaults
          on the loan,  FCX will purchase  the PT-II stock  or the  lenders'
          interest in the commercial loan for the amount then due by Nusamba
          under the loan.  FCX also agreed to lend to Nusamba any amounts to
          cover any differences  between the  interest payments  due on  the
          commercial loan and the dividends received by Nusamba from  PT-II.

          Distribution of FCX Class B Common Stock

               Until  mid-1995,  FCX  was  a  majority-owned  subsidiary  of
          Freeport-McMoRan Inc.  ("FTX").   In  July  1995, FTX's  Board  of
          Directors declared  and  paid a  distribution  to holders  of  its
          common stock of  all of  the shares of  FCX Class  B Common  Stock
          owned by FTX.   Prior to  the distribution,  the FCX  stockholders
          approved changes  to FCX's  capital  structure and  voting  rights
          that, among other things, provided holders  of FCX Class B  Common
          Stock with  the  right to  elect  80%  of the  FCX  directors  and
          provided holders of FCX  Class A Common Stock  and holders of  FCX
          preferred stock,  voting together,  with the  right to  elect  the
          balance of  such directors.   Except  for voting  rights, the  two
          classes of FCX common stock are  identical.  The distribution  was
          the final step in a restructuring of FTX, as a result of which FTX
          no longer owns any interest in FCX. 

               In order to  ensure the tax free  nature of the  distribution
          of FCX  Class B  Common  Stock, FCX  has  agreed that,  unless  it
          obtains an opinion  of tax counsel  or supplemental letter  ruling
          from the Internal Revenue Service that the tax free nature of  the
          distribution would not be adversely  affected, (a) until July  17,
          2000 it will not initiate or support any action that would  change
          the manner in which its directors  are elected and (b) until  July
          17, 1997  it  will  (i) not  issue  any  shares
         
                                          [PAGE] 8

          of  any  class  of
          preferred stock  that  would  not  entitle  its  holders  to  vote
          together with the Class A Common Stock and the existing classes of
          preferred stock in the election of directors, (ii) not dispose  of
          any  PT-FI  common   stock,  subordinated   promissory  notes   or
          production payment loans held by FCX on July 17, 1995, (iii)  take
          no affirmative step to merge, liquidate or, except in the ordinary
          course of business,  sell any  of its  assets, (iv)  use its  best
          efforts to cause PT-FI to remain the operator under the PT-FI  COW
          and continue its business in a substantially unchanged manner,  or
          (v)  subject  to  certain  permitted  conditions,  not  redeem  or
          reacquire shares of Class B Common Stock.

          Employees of PT-FI and Relationship with FM Services Company

               As  of  December 31,  1996,  PT-FI  had  approximately  8,300
          employees (approximately  96% Indonesian).    In addition,  as  of
          December 31, 1996, PT-FI had approximately 8,100 contract workers,
          most of  whom  were  Indonesian.   Approximately  51%  of  PT-FI's
          Indonesian employees  are members  of the  All Indonesia  Workers'
          Union, which operates under Indonesian Government supervision  and
          is  party  to  a  labor  agreement  covering  PT-FI's  hourly-paid
          Indonesian employees that  expires on September  30, 1997.   Other
          than the work stoppage to March,  as described under "Republic  of
          Indonesia,"   PT-FI experienced  no work  stoppages in  1996,  and
          relations with the union have generally been good.  As of December
          31, 1996,  Atlantic  had  approximately 775  employees,  of  which
          approximately 82%  are  covered  by  union  contracts.    Atlantic
          experienced no work  stoppages in  1996 and  relations with  these
          unions have also generally been good.

               Prior to January 1, 1996,  FCX had no employees.  Until  mid-
          1995, FCX was a majority-owned subsidiary of FTX, and in order  to
          permit United States  citizens engaged  full time  in PT-FI's  and
          Atlantic's businesses  to participate  in FTX's  employee  benefit
          plans, such persons were employed by a United States subsidiary of
          FTX.  Prior to January 1, 1996, FCX, PT-FI and FTX were parties to
          a  Management  Services  Agreement  (the  "Management  Agreement")
          pursuant  to  which   FTX  furnished  executive,   administrative,
          financial, accounting, legal, tax,  sales and similar services  to
          FCX and PT-FI.   Since January 1,  1996, with limited  exceptions,
          former employees of FTX engaged full-time in the business of  FCX,
          PT-FI or  Atlantic  have  become  employees  of  FCX,  and  former
          employees of FTX providing the  services formerly provided by  FTX
          under  the  Management  Agreement  have  become  employees  of  FM
          Services Company, a Delaware corporation 50% owned by each of  FTX
          and FCX  ("FMS").    Since January  1,  1996,  FMS  has  furnished
          services to FCX similar to those  historically provided by FTX  to
          FCX.   FCX  reimburses  FMS,  at  its  cost,  including  allocated
          overhead, for such services on a monthly basis.

          Cautionary Statement

               This report includes "forward-looking statements" within  the
          meaning of Section 27A of the Securities  Act of 1933 and  Section
          21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  All statements  other
          than statements  of  historical  fact  included  in  this  report,
          including, without limitation, the  statements under the  headings
          "Business and Properties," "Market for Registrant's Common  Equity
          and Related Stockholder Matters," and "Management's Discussion and
          Analysis  of  Financial  Condition  and  Results  of   Operations"
          regarding FCX's  financial  position  and  liquidity,  payment  of
          dividends, FCX's  strategic  growth  initiatives,  future  capital
          needs, development and capital expenditures (including the  amount
          and nature thereof),  exploration efforts,  reserve estimates  and
          additions, production levels, business strategies, and other plans
          and objectives of management of the Company for future  operations
          and activities, are forward-looking statements.  These  statements
          are based on certain assumptions and analyses made by the  Company
          in light  of  its  experience and  its  perception  of  historical
          trends, current conditions, expected future developments and other
          factors it believes are appropriate under the circumstances.  Such
          statements are  subject  to a  number  of assumptions,  risks  and
          uncertainties, including the risk  factors discussed below and  in
          the Company's  other  filings  with the  Securities  and  Exchange
          Commission, general economic and business conditions, the business
          opportunities that may be presented to and pursued by the Company,
          changes in laws or  regulations and other  factors, many of  which
          are beyond the control of the Company.  Readers are cautioned that
          any such statements are not guarantees of future performance,  and
          the actual  results or  developments  may differ  materially  from
          those projected,  predicted  or  assumed  in  the  forward-looking
          statements.   All  subsequent  written  and  oral  forward-looking
          statements attributable to FCX  or persons   acting on its  behalf
          are expressly  qualified in  their  entirety by  these  cautionary
          statements. Important factors that  could cause actual results  to
          differ materially include, among others:

               .    Fluctuations in the market prices of copper and gold

                                      [PAGE] 9

               .    The political,  social  and  economic  risks  associated
                    with operations in Indonesia, Spain and other  countries
                    where FCX may conduct operations
               .    General  domestic   and   international   economic   and
                    political conditions
               .    Fluctuations  in   foreign   currency   exchange   rates
                    (particularly the Spanish peseta and Indonesian rupiah)
               .    The availability  of smelting  capacity in  relation  to
                    the worldwide supply  of concentrates,  and the  ability
                    of FCX to retain and obtain favorable concentrate  sales
                    contracts with customers
               .    Unexpected  geological  conditions  or  rock   stability
                    conditions  resulting  in  cave-ins,  floodings,   rock-
                    bursts or rock slides
               .    Difficulties   associated    with    managing    complex
                    operations in a remote and rugged mountainous area
               .    Unanticipated declines  in  the average  grades  of  ore
                    mined
               .    Unanticipated milling and other processing problems
               .    The speculative nature of mineral exploration
               .    Environmental risks
               .    Changes in  laws and  government regulations,  including
                    those relating to taxes and the environment
               .    The availability  and  timing of  receipt  of  necessary
                    governmental   permits   and   approvals   relating   to
                    operations, expansion  of operations,  and financing  of
                    operations
               .    Difficulties  in  reaching   agreements,  or   resolving
                    disputes,  with  joint   venture  partners,   government
                    officials, suppliers or customers
               .    Fluctuations  in  interest   rates  and  other   adverse
                    financial market conditions
               .    Other unanticipated difficulties in obtaining  necessary
                    financing
               .    The failure  of equipment  or  processes to  operate  in
                    accordance with specifications or expectations
               .    Labor relations
               .    Accidents
               .    Unusual weather or operating conditions
               .    Force majeure events
               .    Other risk factors described from time to time in  FCX's
                    filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission

               Many of these factors are beyond FCX's ability to control  or
          predict.  Investors are cautioned not  to place undue reliance  on
          forward-looking  statements.     FCX  disclaims   any  intent   or
          obligation to update its forward-looking statements, whether as  a
          result of  receiving new  information,  the occurrence  of  future
          events or otherwise.

               A  more  detailed discussion  of  certain  of  the  foregoing
          factors follows.

               Prices  of Minerals.    Because FCX's  revenues  are  derived
          primarily from  the sale  of  concentrates containing  copper  and
          gold, FCX's earnings  are directly  related to  market prices  for
          copper and  gold.   Prices  for  such minerals  historically  have
          fluctuated widely  and are  affected  by numerous  factors  beyond
          FCX's control.

               Location and Industry Risks.   PT-FI's mining operations  are
          located in steeply mountainous  terrain in a  very remote area  of
          Indonesia, which makes the conduct of its operations difficult and
          has required PT-FI  to overcome  special engineering  difficulties
          and develop  extensive infrastructure  facilities.   The  area  is
          subject to considerable rainfall, which has led to periodic floods
          and mud slides.  The mine site is also in an active seismic  area,
          and earth tremors have been experienced from time to time.   PT-FI
          also is  subject to  the usual  risks  encountered in  the  mining
          industry, including unexpected geological conditions resulting  in
          cave-ins, floodings and rock-bursts and unexpected changes in rock
          stability conditions.    None of  these  factors have  caused  any
          significant interruptions  to production  or significant  property
          damage,  although no assurance can be given that delays or  damage
          will not occur  in the future.   PT-FI  has substantial  insurance
          involving such amounts and  types of coverage  as it believes  are
          appropriate  for   its   exploration,  development,   mining   and
          processing activities in Indonesia.

               Political Factors.   Maintaining a good working  relationship
          with the Indonesian Government is of particular importance to  the
          Company because its principal operations are located in Indonesia.
          PT-FI's mining complex was Indonesia's first copper mining project
          and was the first major foreign investment in Indonesia  following
          the  economic  development  program  instituted  by  the   Suharto
          administration in  1967. PT-FI  works  closely with  the  central,
          provincial and  local governments  in development  efforts in  the
          vicinity of  its operations.  The  Company operates  in  Indonesia
          through

                                      [PAGE] 10

          PT-FI  by virtue  of the  PT-FI  COW and  through  Eastern
          Mining by virtue of the Eastern Mining COW, both of which have 30-
          year terms,  provide  for  two 10-year  extensions  under  certain
          conditions, and  govern PT-FI's  and Eastern  Mining's rights  and
          obligations relating to taxes, exchange controls, repatriation and
          other matters.  Both  COWs were  concluded  pursuant to  the  1967
          Foreign  Capital  Investment  Law,  which  expresses   Indonesia's
          foreign  investment  policy  and  provides  basic  guarantees   of
          remittance  rights  and  protection  against  nationalization,   a
          framework for economic incentives and basic rules regarding  other
          rights and obligations of foreign investors.

               PT-FI's  mining operations  are  located  in  the  Indonesian
          province of Irian  Jaya, which occupies  the western  half of  the
          island of New Guinea and became part of Indonesia during the early
          1960s. The area surrounding PT-FI's mining development is sparsely
          populated by primitive local tribes  and former residents of  more
          populous areas of Indonesia, some of whom have resettled in  Irian
          Jaya under  the  Indonesian Government's  transmigration  program.
          Certain members  of the  local population  oppose Indonesian  rule
          over  Irian  Jaya,  and  several  small  separatist  groups   seek
          political independence  for  the  province.  Sporadic  attacks  on
          civilians by the  separatists and sporadic  but highly  publicized
          conflicts between separatists and the Indonesian military have led
          to allegations of human rights  violations.  PT-FI personnel  have
          not been involved  in those  conflicts.   The Indonesian  military
          occasionally has exercised its right to appropriate transportation
          and other equipment of PT-FI.

               PT-FI's  policy  has  been  to  operate  in  Irian  Jaya   in
          compliance with Indonesian laws and in a manner that improves  the
          lives of the  local population.   PT-FI  incurs significant  costs
          associated  with  its  social  and  cultural  activities.     Such
          activities include  comprehensive  job  training  programs,  basic
          education programs, extensive malaria  control and general  public
          health programs,  agricultural  assistance  programs,  a  business
          incubator program to encourage the local people to establish their
          own small scale  businesses, cultural  preservation programs,  and
          charitable donations.

               Following  civil   disturbances  in   the  mining   town   of
          Tembagapura and the lowlands town of Timika in early 1996 and as a
          result of subsequent meetings with tribal leaders, the Company, in
          cooperation with the Indonesian Government, agreed to redistribute
          and refocus its community development programs by dedicating 1% of
          PT-FI's revenues over  the next ten  years to  fund these  efforts
          and, among other things, to increase the number of local  Irianese
          in its work force.   The Indonesian Government  agreed as part  of
          its development  efforts in  Irian Jaya  to create  an  integrated
          development plan calling for the participation of the local tribes
          in creating  and  developing the  community  development  projects
          funded by the Company.  While management believes that its efforts
          to be  responsive to  the issues  relating to  the impact  of  its
          operations  on  the  local   tribes  should  ensure  that   mining
          operations will not be disrupted, social and political instability
          in the area may, in the future, have an adverse impact on  PT-FI's
          mining operations.

               Reserves.   FCX  reserve  amounts, which  are  determined  in
          accordance  with   established  mining   industry  practices   and
          standards, are  estimates only.   PT-FI's  mines, whether  in  the
          production or development  stages, may not  conform to  geological
          concepts or other expectations,  so that the  volume and grade  of
          reserves recovered and the rates of production may be more or less
          than anticipated.    Because ore  bodies  do not  contain  uniform
          grades of  minerals, ore  recovery rates  will vary  from time  to
          time, resulting in  variations in  volumes of  minerals sold  from
          period to period.  Further,  market price fluctuations in  copper,
          gold and, to a lesser extent, silver, and changes in operating and
          capital costs  may  render  certain  ore  reserves  uneconomic  to
          develop.   No  assurance  can  be  given  that  FCX's  exploration
          programs will result in the discovery of commercially  exploitable
          mineral deposits.

               Environmental  and  Government  Regulation.    The  Company's
          exploration  and   mining  activities   in  Irian   Jaya   involve
          significant engineering and  environmental challenges that  relate
          primarily to the location of the mine in remote, rugged  highlands
          and the disposition  of tailings  through discharge  into a  river
          that deposits them in a controlled deposition area near the sea.  
          The Company has sought to preserve and protect the environment  in
          its area of operations.

               The  Company   has  expended   significant  resources,   both
          financial and managerial, to comply with environmental regulations
          and permitting and approval  requirements and anticipates that  it
          will continue to do so in the  future.  There can be no  assurance
          that additional  significant costs  and  liabilities will  not  be
          incurred  in  order  to  comply  with  such  current  and   future
          regulations.

               Holding  Company  Structure.   Because  FCX  is  primarily  a
          holding company, conducting business through its subsidiaries, its
          ability to meet its financial obligations and to pay dividends  on
          its preferred and  common stock will

                                     [PAGE] 11

          depend on  the earnings  and
          cash flow of its subsidiaries and the ability of its  subsidiaries
          to pay  dividends and  to advance  funds to  the Company.    Under
          certain circumstances, contractual and legal restrictions, as well
          as the financial condition and operating requirements of PT-FI and
          the  Company's  other  subsidiaries,  could  limit  the  Company's
          ability to obtain cash  from its subsidiaries  for the purpose  of
          meeting its debt service  obligations and to  pay dividends.   Any
          right of the  Company to participate  in any  distribution of  the
          assets of PT-FI and its  other subsidiaries upon the  liquidation,
          reorganization  or   insolvency   thereof  would,   with   certain
          exceptions, be subject to the claims of creditors (including trade
          creditors)  and   preferred   stockholders  (if   any)   of   such
          subsidiaries.

          Item 3.  Legal Proceedings.

               Tom  Beanal v.  Freeport-McMoRan  Inc.  and  Freeport-McMoRan
          Copper & Gold  Inc., Civ.  No. 96-1474  (E.D. La.  filed Apr.  29,
          1996).   The plaintiff  alleges  environmental, human  rights  and
          social/cultural violations in Indonesia.   He seeks $6 billion  in
          monetary damages and other equitable  relief.  The Company  denies
          these allegations,  which it  believes are  inconsistent with  the
          findings of a series of independent examinations of the Indonesian
          mining operations of PT-FI.   The Company  believes the action  is
          baseless and will vigorously defend such action.  The Company  has
          filed a motion to dismiss all claims, which motion is pending.

               Yosefa Alomang v. Freeport-McMoRan Inc. and  Freeport-McMoRan
          Copper & Gold Inc., Civ. No.  96-9962 (Orleans Civ. Dist. Ct.  La.
          filed June 19, 1996).  This  purported class action was  dismissed
          by the Civil  District Court of  the Parish of  Orleans, State  of
          Louisiana  on  February  21,  1997  for  lack  of  subject  matter
          jurisdiction because the alleged  conduct and damages occurred  in
          Indonesia.  The Court also held  that venue was not proper in  any
          Louisiana court.   On  March 11,  1997, the  Court ruled  that  an
          amended complaint filed by the plaintiff did not cure the lack  of
          subject  matter   jurisdiction.     The  plaintiff   had   alleged
          substantially similar violations  as those alleged  in the  Beanal
          suit and sought unspecified  monetary damages and other  equitable
          relief.

               In addition  to the foregoing  proceedings, FCX  may be  from
          time to time involved in various legal proceedings of a  character
          normally incident  to  the  ordinary  course  of  its  business.  
          Management believes  that  potential  liability  in  any  such  or
          threatened proceedings would not have a material adverse effect on
          the financial  condition or  results of  operations of  FCX.   FCX
          maintains  liability  insurance  to  cover  some,  but  not   all,
          potential liabilities normally incident to the ordinary course  of
          its business as well as other insurance coverages customary in its
          business, with such coverage limits as management deems prudent.

          Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.

               Not applicable. 

                               [PAGE] 12

          Executive Officers of the Registrant.

               Certain information as of March 14, 1997 about the  executive
          officers of FCX, including their position  or office with FCX  and
          PT-FI, is set forth in the following table and accompanying text:

                    Name           Age       Position or Office
                    ----           ---       ------------------

               Richard C. Adkerson 50   Executive  Vice  President  and
                                        Chief Financial  Officer  of  FCX.  
                                        Director    and    Executive    Vice
                                        President of PT-FI. 

               Michael J. Arnold   44   Senior Vice President of FCX.

               Thomas J. Egan      52   Senior Vice President of FCX.

               W. Russell King     47   Senior Vice  President  of
                                        FCX.

               Rene L. Latiolais   54   Director and Vice Chairman
                                        of the Board  of FCX.   Commissioner
                                        of PT-FI.

               Adrianto Machribie  55   President Director of PT-FI.

               James R. Moffett    58   Director, Chairman of  the
                                        Board and Chief Executive Officer of
                                        FCX.    President  Commissioner   of
                                        PT-FI.

               Richard C. Adkerson  has served as  Executive Vice  President
          and Chief Financial Officer of the  Company since July 1995.   Mr.
          Adkerson has been Executive Vice President and a Director of PT-FI
          since April 1995.  Mr. Adkerson is Vice Chairman of the Board  and
          a Director  of  FTX.    He is  Co-Chairman  of  the  Board,  Chief
          Executive Officer and  a Director  of MOXY.   In  addition, he  is
          Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive  Officer and a Director  of
          FM Properties  Inc.  ("FMPO").   From  1992 to  August  1995,  Mr.
          Adkerson was a Senior Vice President of FTX.

               Michael J. Arnold has served as Senior Vice President of  the
          Company since November 1996.   From July 1994   to November  1996,
          Mr. Arnold was Vice President and  Controller - Operations of  the
          Company.   Mr. Arnold  is  Senior Vice  President  of FTX.    From
          October 1991  to November  1996, he  was  Vice President  of  FTX,
          serving as Controller - Operations from May 1993 to November 1996.

               Thomas J. Egan  has served as  Senior Vice  President of  the
          Company since  July 1994.   Mr.  Egan has  also been  Senior  Vice
          President of  FTX since  November 1993.    From November  1987  to
          November 1993, Mr. Egan was Vice President of FTX.

               W. Russell King has  served as Senior  Vice President of  the
          Company since July  1994.   Mr. King has  also been   Senior  Vice
          President of  FTX  since November  1993.   From  October  1984  to
          November 1993, Mr. King was Vice President of FTX.

               Rene L. Latiolais has served as Vice Chairman of the Board of
          the Company since July 1994 and as a Director of the Company since
          July 1993.   Mr.  Latiolais has  served as  Commissioner of  PT-FI
          since August 1993.   Mr. Latiolais  is President, Chief  Executive
          Officer and a Director of FTX.  Mr. Latiolais was Chief  Operating
          Officer of  FTX until  1995 and  Executive Vice  President of  FTX
          until 1993.  He is also  President and Chief Executive Officer  of
          Freeport-McMoRan Resource Partners, Limited Partnership.

               Adrianto Machribie has  served as  President Commissioner  of
          PT-FI since March 1996.   From September 1992  to March 1996,  Mr.
          Machribie was a Director and Executive Vice President of PT-FI.

               James R.  Moffett has  served as  Chairman of  the Board  and
          Chief Executive Officer  of the Company  since July  1995 and  has
          served as a Director of the  Company since May 1992.  Mr.  Moffett
          has served as President  Commissioner

                                  [PAGE] 13

          of PT-FI  since June 1992.  
          Mr. Moffett is Chairman of the Board and a Director of FTX.  He is
          Co-Chairman of the Board and a  Director of McMoRan Oil & Gas  Co.
          ("MOXY").


                                       PART II

          Item 5.    Market  for  Registrant's  Common  Equity  and  Related
          Stockholder Matters.

               The information set  forth under  the captions  "FCX Class  A
          Common Shares,"  "FCX Class  B Common  Shares" and  "Common  Share
          Dividends," on  the inside  back cover  of  the Annual  Report  is
          incorporated herein by  reference.  As  of March  14, 1997,  there
          were 10,923 and  16,217 holders  of record  of FCX's  Class A  and
          Class B common stock, respectively.

          Item 6.  Selected Financial Data. 

               The  information  set  forth  under  the  caption   "Selected
          Financial and Operating Data," on page 18 of the Annual Report  is
          incorporated herein by reference.

               FCX's ratio  of earnings  to fixed  charges for  each of  the
          years 1992 through 1996, inclusive, was 6.5x, 3.6x, 7.5x, 5.9x and
          4.5x, respectively.   For  this calculation,  earnings consist  of
          income from continuing  operations before  income taxes,  minority
          interests and fixed charges.   Fixed charges include interest  and
          that portion of  rent deemed  representative of  interest.   FCX's
          ratio of earnings to fixed charges, preferred stock dividends  and
          minimum distributions for  each of  the years  1992 through  1996,
          inclusive, was 3.5x, 1.2x, 2.1x, 3.0x and 2.6x, respectively.  For
          this calculation, the preferred  stock dividend requirements  were
          assumed to  be  equal  to the  pre-tax  earnings  which  would  be
          required to cover such dividend requirements.  The amount of  such
          pre-tax earnings required to  cover preferred stock dividends  was
          computed using  tax  rates for  the  applicable years.    "Minimum
          Distributions" for purposes of  calculating this ratio consist  of
          the required minimum distribution for the Company's Class A Common
          Stock that expired May 1, 1993. 

          Item  7.    Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis  of  Financial
          Condition and Results of Operations.

               The information  set forth  under the  caption  "Management's
          Discussion and Analysis" on pages 19 through 24, inclusive, 27, 29
          and  31,  as  well  as  the  "Environmental/Social  Responsibility
          Report" on pages 11  through 17, inclusive,  of the Annual  Report
          are incorporated herein by reference.

          Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

               The financial statements of FCX appearing on pages 26, 28, 30
          and 32, the notes  thereto appearing on pages  33 through 45,  the
          report thereon of Arthur  Andersen LLP appearing  on page 25,  and
          the report  of management  on page  25 of  the Annual  Report  are
          incorporated herein by reference.

          Item  9.    Changes  in  and  Disagreements  with  Accountants  on
          Accounting and Financial Disclosure.

               Not applicable. 

                                       PART III


          Items 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.

               The information  set  forth under  the  caption  "Information
          About Nominees and Directors" of the Proxy Statement submitted  to
          the stockholders of  the registrant  in connection  with its  1997
          Annual Meeting to be held on April 29, 1997 is incorporated herein
          by reference.

                                   [PAGE] 14

          Items 11.  Executive Compensation.

               The  information  set  forth  under  the  captions  "Director
          Compensation" and "Executive  Officer Compensation"  of the  Proxy
          Statement submitted  to  the  stockholders of  the  registrant  in
          connection with its 1997  Annual Meeting to be  held on April  29,
          1997 is incorporated herein by reference.

          Items 12.   Security Ownership  of Certain  Beneficial Owners  and
          Management.

               The information set forth under the captions "Stock Ownership
          of Directors  and  Executive  Officers" and  "Stock  Ownership  of
          Certain Beneficial Owners" of the Proxy Statement submitted to the
          stockholders of the registrant in connection with its 1997  Annual
          Meeting to be  held on April  29, 1997 is  incorporated herein  by
          reference.

          Items 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.

               The  information  set  forth   under  the  caption   "Certain
          Transactions" of the Proxy Statement submitted to the stockholders
          of the registrant in connection with its 1997 Annual Meeting to be
          held on April 29, 1997 is incorporated herein by reference.

                                       PART IV

          Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial  Statement Schedules and Reports  on
          Form 8-K.


          (a)(1).   Financial Statements. 

                    Reference is made to  the Index to Financial  Statements
                    appearing on page F-1 hereof.

          (a)(2).   Financial Statement Schedules.

                    Reference is made to  the Index to Financial  Statements
                    appearing on page F-1 hereof.

          (a)(3).   Exhibits. 

                    Reference is made to the Exhibit Index beginning on page
                    E-1 hereof.

          (b).  Reports on Form 8-K.

                    During the last  quarter of the  period covered by  this
                    report, FCX filed  six reports  on Forms  8-K dated  (i)
                    November 8, 1996 reporting an  event under Item 5;  (ii)
                    November 13,  1996 filing  exhibits under  Item 7;  (ii)
                    November 13, 1996  reporting an event  under Item 5  and
                    filing exhibits  under Item  7; (iv)  November 27,  1996
                    reporting an event under Item  5; (v) December 20,  1996
                    reporting an event under Item  5; and (vi) December  30,
                    1996 reporting  an event  under Item  5.   No  financial
                    statements were filed in connection with such reports.

                                    [PAGE] 15



                                     SIGNATURES

               Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 of the Securities
          Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this  report
          to be signed  on its behalf  by the  undersigned, thereunto  duly
          authorized, on March 27, 1996.

                                       FREEPORT-McMoRan COPPER & GOLD INC.



                                             By:  /s/ James R. Moffett      

                                                    James R. Moffett
                                                  Chairman of the Board and
                                                  Chief Executive Officer

               Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange  Act
          of 1934,  this report  has been  signed  below by  the  following
          persons on  behalf  of  the  registrant  and  in  the  capacities
          indicated on March 27, 1996.

          Signature                          Title
          ---------                          -----


         /s/James R. Moffett                 Chairman of  the Board,  Chief
         -------------------                 Executive Officer and Director
          James R. Moffett                   (Principal Executive Officer)

                *                            Executive Vice  President  and
          -------------------                Chief    Financial     Officer
          Richard C. Adkerson                (Principal Financial Officer)
    
                *                            Controller - Financial
          -------------------                Reporting (Principal
          Michael A. Weaver                  Accounting Officer)

                *                            Director
          --------------------
          Robert W. Bruce III          
                
                *                            Director
          --------------------
          R. Leigh Clifford

                 *                           Director
          --------------------
          Leon A. Davis

                 *                           Director
          --------------------
          Robert A. Day   

                 *                           Director
          ---------------------
          William B. Harrison, Jr.

                 *                           Director
          ----------------------
          J. Bennett Johnston
        
                               [PAGE] S-1

                 *                           Director
          ----------------------      
          Henry A. Kissinger

                 *                           Director
          ----------------------
          Bobby Lee Lackey

                 *                           Director
          ----------------------
          Rene L. Latiolais
          
                 *                           Director
          -----------------------
          Gabrielle K. McDonald 

                 *                           Director
          -----------------------
          George A. Mealey

                 *                           Director
          ------------------------
          George Putnam

                 *                           Director
          ------------------------
          B.M. Rankin, Jr.
                    
                 *                           Director
          ------------------------
          Wolfgang F. Siegel

                 *                           Director    
          ------------------------
          J. Taylor Wharton

                 *                           Director
          -------------------------
          Ward W. Woods, Jr.




          *By: /s/ James R. Moffett
              ----------------------
               James R. Moffett
               Attorney-in-Fact

                           [PAGE] S-2




                   INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     The financial statements of FCX appearing on pages 26, 28, 30,
and 32, the notes thereto appearing on pages 33 through 45,
inclusive, and the report thereon of Arthur Andersen LLP appearing
on page 25 of FCX's 1996 Annual Report to stockholders are
incorporated by reference.

     The financial statements in the schedule listed below should be
read in conjunction with such financial statements contained in
FCX's 1996 Annual Report to stockholders.

                                                       Page
Report of Independent Public Accountants                F-1
III-Condensed Financial Information of Registrant       F-2


     Schedules other than the one listed above have been omitted
since they are either not required, not applicable or the required
information is included in the financial statements or notes
thereto.



          REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

     We have audited, in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards, the financial statements as of December 31, 1996 and 1995
and for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
1996 included in Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.'s Annual Report
to stockholders incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K, and
have issued our report thereon dated January 21, 1997.  Our audits
were made for the purpose of forming an opinion on those statements
taken as a whole.  The schedule listed in the index above is the
responsibility of the Company's management and is presented for
purposes of complying with the Securities and Exchange Commission's
rules and is not part of the basic financial statements.  This
schedule has been subjected to the auditing procedures applied in
the audits of the basic financial statements and, in our opinion,
fairly states in all material respects the financial data required
to be set forth therein in relation to the basic financial
statements taken as a whole.



                        Arthur Andersen LLP

New Orleans, Louisiana,
  January 21, 1997

					[PAGE] F-1


                FREEPORT-McMoRan COPPER & GOLD INC.

    SCHEDULE III - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT

                       BALANCE SHEETS
                                                  December 31,
                                          --------------------------
                                             1996           1995
                                          ----------      ----------
                                                (In Thousands)
Assets
Cash and cash equivalents                 $      242      $       93
Interest receivable                           12,610          11,885
Notes receivable from PT-FI                1,307,812       1,208,007
Investment in PT-FI and PTII                 427,115         386,956
Investment in Atlantic Copper                 43,077          67,374
Other assets                                  80,843          47,201
                                          ----------      ----------
Total assets                              $1,871,699      $1,721,516
                                          ==========      ==========

Liabilities and Stockholders' Equity
Accounts payable and accrued liabilities  $   19,938      $   14,883
Long-term debt                               662,561         318,000
Other liabilities and deferred credits        13,814           6,952
Mandatory redeemable preferred stock         500,007         500,007
Stockholders' equity                         675,379         881,674
                                          ----------      ----------
Total liabilities and stockholders'
 equity                                   $1,871,699      $1,721,516
                                          ==========      ==========

                       STATEMENTS OF INCOME

                                   Years Ended December 31,
                          -----------------------------------------
                             1996            1995            1994
                          ----------      ----------      ---------
                                         (In Thousands)
Income from investment
 in PT-FI and PTII, net
 of PT-FI tax
 provision                $  253,895      $  293,279      $  111,822
Net loss from investment
 in Atlantic Copper          (24,258)        (37,787)         (6,309)
Elimination of
 intercompany profit           7,244         (24,851)          3,005
General and administrative
 expenses                     (9,141)         (7,534)         (7,253)
Depreciation and
 amortization                 (3,590)         (3,819)         (3,711)
Interest expense, net        (21,191)        (15,027)        (10,259)
Interest income on PT-FI notes receivable:
  Zero coupon exchangeable
   notes                           -               -             352
  Promissory notes            29,150          28,130          21,094
  8.235% debenture            12,353          13,333          14,033
  Step-up debenture            6,327          20,203          26,256
  Gold and silver production
   payment loans              23,696          23,636          20,222
Other expense, net            (1,698)         (3,664)         (7,424)
Provision for income
 taxes                       (46,538)        (32,281)        (31,587)
                          ----------      ----------      ----------
Net income                   226,249         253,618         130,241
Preferred dividends          (51,569)        (54,153)        (51,838)
                          ----------      ----------      ----------
                          $  174,680      $  199,465      $   78,403
                          ==========      ==========      ==========

The footnotes contained in FCX's 1996 Annual Report to stockholders 
are an integral part of these statements.

					[PAGE] F-2


                FREEPORT-McMoRan COPPER & GOLD INC.

    SCHEDULE III - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT

                      STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOW

                                  Years Ended December 31,
                          -----------------------------------------
                             1996            1995           1994 
                          ----------      ----------      ---------
                                        (In Thousands)
Cash flow from operating activities:
Net income                $  226,249      $  253,618      $  130,241
Adjustments to reconcile 
 net income to net cash 
 provided by operating 
 activities:
  Income from investment
   in PT-FI and PTII        (253,895)       (293,279)       (111,822)
  Net loss from investment
   in Atlantic Copper         24,258          37,787           6,309
  Elimination of
   intercompany profit        (7,244)         24,851          (3,005)
  Dividends received
   from PT-FI and PTII       220,916         161,144         147,465
  Depreciation and
   amortization                3,590           3,819           3,711
(Increase) decrease in
 accounts receivable          (5,214)         (4,501)        (24,240)
Increase (decrease) in
 accounts payable              4,501            (296)         (4,648)
Other                          3,733          (3,755)          1,654
                          ----------      ----------      ----------
Net cash provided by
 operating activities        216,894         179,388         145,665
                          ----------      ----------      ----------

Cash flow from investing activities:
Received from Government
 of Indonesia                     -                -           2,247
Investment in Atlantic
 Copper                           -          (23,622)        (36,365)
Investment in Freeport
 Copper Company                   -          (25,000)              -
Other                        (11,138)        (26,860)             (8)
                          ----------      ----------      ----------
Net cash used in
 investing activities        (11,138)        (75,482)        (34,126)
                          ----------      ----------      ----------

Cash flow from financing activities:
Cash dividends paid:
  Class A common stock       (69,425)        (51,318)        (38,316)
  Class B common stock      (106,341)        (86,245)        (85,187)
  Convertible exchangeable
   preferred stock           (15,498)        (15,673)        (15,708)
  Step-up convertible
   preferred stock           (19,250)        (17,500)        (17,500)
  Mandatory redeemable
   preferred stock           (17,689)        (17,418)        (13,614)
Proceeds from sale of:
      Senior notes           445,570               -         116,276
  Preferred Stock                  -               -         252,985
Proceeds from debt            31,561         128,000          70,000
Repayment of debt           (137,000)              -               -
Proceeds from FTX                  -               -          88,280
Repayment to FTX                   -            (800)        (99,750)
Loans to PT-FI              (244,682)              -        (369,261)
Repayment from PT-FI         147,315         124,485               -
Purchase of FCX common
 shares                     (220,997)       (177,755)              -
Other                            829          10,240               -
                          ----------      ----------      ----------
Net cash used in financing
 activities                 (205,607)       (103,984)       (111,795)
                          ----------      ----------      ----------
Net decrease in cash and
 cash equivalents                149             (78)           (256)
Cash and cash equivalents at
 beginning of year                93             171             427
                          ----------      ----------      ----------
Cash and cash equivalents
 at end of year           $      242      $       93      $      171
                          ==========      ==========      ==========
Interest paid             $   28,249      $   23,237      $    7,788
                          ==========      ==========      ==========
Taxes paid                $   41,586      $   34,871      $   29,871
                          ==========      ==========      ==========

The footnotes contained in FCX's 1996 Annual Report to stockholders
are an integral part of these statements.

					[PAGE] F-3



                         Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.

                                    EXHIBIT INDEX


          Exhibit
          Number                                                    
          --------

          2.1      Agreement, dated as  of May 2,  1995 by and  between
                   FTX  and  FCX  and  The  RTZ  Corporation  PLC,  RTZ
                   Indonesia Limited, and RTZ  America, Inc. (the  "RTZ
                   Agreement").  Incorporated  by reference to  Exhibit
                   2.1 to the Current Report on  Form 8-K of FTX  dated
                   as of May 26, 1995.

          2.2      Amendment dated May 31, 1995 to the RTZ Agreement.  
                   Incorporated by  reference  to Exhibit  2.1  to  the
                   Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of FTX for the quarter
                   ended June 30, 1995.

          2.3      Distribution Agreement  dated  as of  July  5,  1995
                   between FTX and FCX.   Incorporated by reference  to
                   Exhibit 2.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q  of
                   FTX for the  quarter ended September  30, 1995  (the
                   "FTX 1995 Third Quarter Form 10-Q").

          3.1      Composite copy of  the Certificate of  Incorporation
                   of FCX.  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to
                   the Quarterly Report  on Form  10-Q of  FCX for  the
                   quarter ended June  30, 1995 (the  "FCX 1995  Second
                   Quarter Form 10-Q").

          3.2      By-Laws of FCX, as amended.

          4.1      Certificate   of   Designations   of   the   Step-Up
                   Convertible Preferred Stock of FCX.  Incorporated by
                   reference to  Exhibit 4.2  to  the FCX  1995  Second
                   Quarter Form 10-Q.

          4.2      Deposit Agreement  dated as  of July  1, 1993  among
                   FCX, Chase Mellon  Shareholder Services, L.L.C.,  as
                   Depositary,  and  holders  of  depositary   receipts
                   ("Step-Up Depositary  Receipts") evidencing  certain
                   Depositary  Shares,   each   of  which,   in   turn,
                   represents  0.05  shares   of  Step-Up   Convertible
                   Preferred  Stock.    Incorporated  by  reference  to
                   Exhibit 4.5 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of FCX
                   for the  fiscal year  ended December  31, 1993  (the
                   "FCX 1993 Form 10-K").

          4.3      Form of Step-Up Depositary Receipt.  Incorporated by
                   reference to Exhibit 4.6 to the FCX 1993 Form 10-K.

          4.4      Certificate of Designations of the  Gold-Denominated
                   Preferred Stock of FCX.   Incorporated by  reference
                   to Exhibit 4.3 to the  FCX 1995 Second Quarter  Form
                   10-Q.

          4.5      Deposit Agreement dated as of August 12, 1993  among
                   FCX, Chase Mellon  Shareholder Services, L.L.C.,  as
                   Depositary,  and  holders  of  depositary   receipts
                   ("Gold-Denominated Depositary Receipts")  evidencing
                   certain Depositary Shares, each  of which, in  turn,
                   represents 0.05 shares of Gold-Denominated Preferred
                   Stock.  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.8  to
                   the FCX 1993 Form 10-K.

          4.6      Form  of  Gold-Denominated   Depositary  Receipt.   
                   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.9 to the  FCX
                   1993 Form 10-K.

          4.7      Certificate of Designations of the  Gold-Denominated
                   Preferred Stock,  Series II  (the  "Gold-Denominated
                   Preferred  Stock  II")  of  FCX.    Incorporated  by
                   reference to  Exhibit 4.4  to  the FCX  1995  Second
                   Quarter Form 10-Q.

          4.8      Deposit Agreement  dated  as of  January  15,  1994,
                   among  FCX,  Chase   Mellon  Shareholder   Services,
                   L.L.C., as  Depositary,  and holders  of  depositary
                   receipts ("Gold-Denominated II Depositary Receipts")
                   evidencing certain Depositary Shares, each of which,
                   in turn, represents 0.05 shares of  Gold-Denominated
                   Preferred Stock II.   Incorporated  by reference  to
                   Exhibit 4.2 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q  of
                   FCX for the quarter ended  March 31, 1994 (the  "FCX
                   1994 First Quarter Form 10-Q").

                                     [PAGE] E-1

          Exhibit
          Number
          -------
          4.9      Form of  Gold-Denominated  II Depositary  Receipt.  
                   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the  FCX
                   1994 First Quarter Form 10-Q.

          4.10     Certificate     of      Designations     of      the
                   Silver-Denominated  Preferred   Stock   of   FCX.   
                   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.5 to the  FCX
                   1995 Second Quarter Form 10-Q.

          4.11     Deposit Agreement dated  as of July  25, 1994  among
                   FCX, Chase Mellon  Shareholder Services, L.L.C.,  as
                   Depositary,  and  holders  of  depositary   receipts
                   ("Silver-Denominated      Depositary      Receipts")
                   evidencing certain Depositary Shares, each of which,
                   in  turn,  initially  represents  0.025  shares   of
                   Silver-Denominated Preferred Stock.  Incorporated by
                   reference to Exhibit 4.2 to  the July 15, 1994  Form
                   8-A.

          4.12     Form  of  Silver-Denominated  Depositary  Receipt.  
                   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the July
                   15, 1994, Form 8-A.

          4.13     $550 million  Composite  Restated  Credit  Agreement
                   dated  as  of  July  17,  1995  (the  "PT-FI  Credit
                   Agreement") among PT-FI, FCX, the several  financial
                   institutions that are  parties thereto, First  Trust
                   of New York, National Association, as PT-FI Trustee,
                   Chemical  Bank,  as  administrative  agent  and  FCX
                   collateral agent,    and The  Chase  Manhattan  Bank
                   (National  Association),  as  documentary  agent.   
                   Incorporated by  reference to  Exhibit 4.16  to  the
                   Annual Report of FCX on Form 10-K for the year ended
                   December 31, 1995 (the "FCX 1995 Form 10-K").

          4.14     Amendment dated as  of July  15, 1996  to the  PT-FI
                   Credit  Agreement  among  PT-FI,  FCX,  the  several
                   financial institutions  that  are  parties  thereto,
                   First Trust of  New York,  National Association,  as
                   PT-FI  Trustee,  Chemical  Bank,  as  administrative
                   agent  and  FCX  collateral  agent,  and  The  Chase
                   Manhattan   Bank    (National    Association),    as
                   documentary agent.    Incorporated by  reference  to
                   Exhibit 4.2 to the Quarterly  Report of FCX on  Form
                   10-Q for the quarter  ended September 30, 1996  (the
                   "FCX 1996 Third Quarter Form 10-Q"). 

          4.15     Amendment dated as of October  9, 1996 to the  PT-FI
                   Credit  Agreement  among  PT-FI,  FCX,  the  several
                   financial institutions  that  are  parties  thereto,
                   First Trust of  New York,  National Association,  as
                   PT-FI Trustee,  The Chase  Manhattan Bank  (formerly
                   Chemical Bank),  as administrative  agent,  security
                   agent  and  JAA  security   agent,  and  The   Chase
                   Manhattan Bank (as successor to The Chase  Manhattan
                   Bank (National Association)), as documentary  agent.
                    Incorporated by reference  to Exhibit  10.2 to  the
                   Current Report on  Form 8-K of  FCX dated and  filed
                   November 13, 1996 (the  "FCX November 13, 1996  Form
                   8-K"). 

          4.16     $200 million Credit Agreement  dated as of June  30,
                   1995 (the  "CDF")  among  PT-FI,  FCX,  the  several
                   financial institutions  that  are  parties  thereto,
                   First Trust of  New York,  National Association,  as
                   PT-FI  Trustee,  Chemical  Bank,  as  administrative
                   agent  and  FCX  collateral  agent,  and  The  Chase
                   Manhattan   Bank    (National    Association),    as
                   documentary agent.    Incorporated by  reference  to
                   Exhibit 4.2 to the FCX 1995 Third Quarter Form 10-Q.

          4.17     Amendment dated as of July 15, 1996 to the CDF among
                   PT-FI, FCX, the several financial institutions  that
                   are  parties  thereto,  First  Trust  of  New  York,
                   National Association,  as  PT-FI  Trustee,  Chemical
                   Bank, as  administrative  agent and  FCX  collateral
                   agent,  and  The  Chase  Manhattan  Bank   (National
                   Association), as documentary agent.  Incorporated by
                   reference to  Exhibit  4.1  to the  FCX  1996  Third
                   Quarter Form 10-Q. 

          4.18     Amendment dated as  of October  9, 1996  to the  CDF
                   among PT-FI, FCX, the several financial institutions
                   that are parties thereto,  First Trust of New  York,
                   National Association,  as PT-FI  Trustee, The  Chase
                   Manhattan  Bank   (formerly   Chemical   Bank),   as
                   administrative  agent,   security  agent   and   JAA
                   security agent,  and The  Chase Manhattan  Bank  (as
                   successor to  The  Chase  Manhattan  Bank  (National
                   Association)), as documentary  agent.   Incorporated
                   by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the FCX November 13,
                   1996 Form 8-K. 

                                    [PAGE] E-2
          Exhibit
          Number
          -------

          4.19     Senior Indenture dated as of November 15, 1996  from
                   FCX to  The  Chase  Manhattan  Bank,  as  Trustee.  
                   Incorporated by  reference  to Exhibit  4.1  to  the
                   Current Report on Form 8-K of FCX dated November 13,
                   1996 and filed November 15, 1996 (the "FCX  November
                   15, 1996 Form 8-K").

          4.20     First Supplemental  Indenture dated  as of  November
                   18, 1996 from  FCX to The  Chase Manhattan Bank,  as
                   Trustee, providing for  the issuance  of the  Senior
                   Notes and supplementing  the Senior Indenture  dated
                   November  15,  1996  from   FCX  to  such   Trustee,
                   providing for the issuance of Debt Securities. 

          10.1     Contract of Work dated December 30, 1991 between The
                   Government of the Republic of Indonesia and PT-FI.  
                   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the FCX
                   1995 Form 10-K.

          10.2     Contract of Work dated  August 15, 1994 between  The
                   Government of  the Republic  of Indonesia  and  P.T.
                   IRJA Eastern Minerals Corporation.  Incorporated  by
                   reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the FCX 1995 Form 10-K.

          10.3     The Second Amended  and Restated  Joint Venture  and
                   Shareholders' Agreement  dated  as of  December  11,
                   1996 among Mitsubishi Materials Corporation,  Nippon
                   Mining  and  Metals   Company,  Limited  and   PT-FI
                   ("Gresik Joint Venture Agreement").

          10.4     Agreement dated as of October 11, 1996 to Amend  and
                   Restate Trust Agreement  among PT-FI,  FCX, the  RTZ
                   Corporation  PLC,   P.T.  RTZ-CRA   Indonesia,   RTZ
                   Indonesian Finance Limited  and First  Trust of  New
                   York, National Association, and The Chase  Manhattan
                   Bank, as  Administrative Agent,  JAA Security  Agent
                   and Security Agent.   Incorporated  by reference  to
                   Exhibit 10.3 to the FCX November 13, 1996 Form 8-K.

          10.5     Credit Agreement dated October 11, 1996 between  PT-
                   FI and RTZ Indonesian Finance Limited.  Incorporated
                   by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the FCX November 13,
                   1996 Form 8-K.

          10.6     Participation Agreement dated as of October 11, 1996
                   between  PT-FI  and  P.T.  RTZ-CRA  Indonesia   with
                   respect to a certain contract of work.  Incorporated
                   by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the FCX November 13,
                   1996 Form 8-K.

          10.7     Agreement dated effective as  of February 26,  1997,
                   among FCX, Bre-X Minerals Ltd., on behalf of  itself
                   and its subsidiaries, including, without limitation,
                   Dorchester  Holdings   B.V.   and   Bre-X   Minerals
                   Amsterdam B.V.,  P.T.  Askatindo Karya  Mineral,  on
                   behalf  of  itself  and  all  persons  or   entities
                   claiming under or through  any arrangement with  it,
                   and PT  Amsya  Lyna, on  behalf  of itself  and  all
                   persons or entities  claiming under  or through  any
                   arrangement with it.

                   Executive  Compensation   Plans   and   Arrangements
                   (Exhibits 10.8 through 10.25)

          10.8     Annual Incentive Plan of FCX, as amended.

          10.9     1995 Long-Term Performance Incentive Plan of FCX, as
                   amended.

          10.10    FCX   Performance   Incentive   Awards   Program.   
                   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to the FCX
                   1995 Form 10-K.

          10.11    FCX President's  Award  Program.    Incorporated  by
                   reference to Exhibit 10.8 to the FCX 1995 Form 10-K.

          10.12    FCX Adjusted Stock Award Plan, as amended.

          10.13    FCX 1995 Stock Option Plan, as amended.

          10.14    FCX  1995   Stock  Option   Plan  for   Non-Employee
                   Directors, as amended.

                                [PAGE] E-3
          
          Exhibit
          Number
          -------
          10.15    Financial Counseling and Tax Return Preparation  and
                   Certification  Program  of  FCX.    Incorporated  by
                   reference to Exhibit 10.12 to the FCX 1995 Form  10-
                   K.

          10.16    FM Services  Company  Performance  Incentive  Awards
                   Program.  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.13
                   to the FCX 1995 Form 10-K.

          10.17    FM Services  Company  Financial Counseling  and  Tax
                   Return  Preparation  and  Certification  Program.   
                   Incorporated by reference  to Exhibit  10.14 to  the
                   FCX 1995 Form 10-K.

          10.18    Consulting Agreement dated as  of December 22,  1988
                   between   FTX   and   Kissinger   Associates,   Inc.
                   ("Kissinger Associates").  Incorporated by reference
                   to Exhibit 10.35 to the  Annual Report on Form  10-K
                   of FTX for the fiscal  year ended December 31,  1992
                   (the "FTX 1992 Form 10-K").

          10.19    Letter Agreement dated May  1, 1989 between FTX  and
                   Kent   Associates,    Inc.    ("Kent    Associates,"
                   predecessor in interest  to Kissinger Associates).  
                   Incorporated by reference  to Exhibit  10.36 to  the
                   FTX 1992 Form 10-K.

          10.20    Letter  Agreement  dated  January  27,  1997   among
                   Kissinger Associates, Kent Associates, FTX, FCX  and
                   FMS.

          10.21    Agreement for  Consulting Services  between FTX  and
                   B.M. Rankin,  Jr. effective  as of  January 1,  1990
                   (assigned  to  FMS   as  of  January   1,  1996).   
                   Incorporated by  reference to  Exhibit 19.2  to  the
                   Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of FTX for the quarter
                   ended March 31, 1990.

          10.22    Letter Agreement dated March 8, 1996 between  George
                   A. Mealey and FCX.

          10.23    Letter  Agreement  dated  December  18,  1996  among
                   Charles W. Goodyear, IV,  FCX, FTX, FMS and  certain
                   other entities.

          10.24    Letter Agreement  dated  December 18,  1996  between
                   Goodyear Capital Corporation and FMS.

          10.25    Letter Agreement  effective as  of January  4,  1997
                   between Senator J. Bennett Johnston, Jr. and FCX.

          11.1     FCX Computation of Net Income Per Common and  Common
                   Equivalent Share.

          12.1     FCX  Computation  of  Ratio  of  Earnings  to  Fixed
                   Charges.

          13.1     Those  portions  of  the   1996  Annual  Report   to
                   stockholders of FCX that are incorporated herein  by
                   reference.

          21.1     Subsidiaries of FCX.

          23.1     Consent of Arthur Andersen LLP dated March 27, 1997.

          23.2     Consent  of  Independent  Mining  Consultants,  Inc.
                   dated March 27, 1997.

          24.1     Certified resolution of  the Board  of Directors  of
                   FCX authorizing this report  to be signed on  behalf
                   of any officer  or director pursuant  to a Power  of
                   Attorney.

          24.2     Powers of Attorney pursuant to which this report has
                   been  signed  on  behalf  of  certain  officers  and
                   directors of FCX.

          27.1     FCX Financial Data Schedule.

                              [PAGE] E-4



