
10-K405





               SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                     Washington, D.C. 20549

                            FORM 10-K
(Mark One) 
  [x]     ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
               THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
           For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997
                               OR
  [ ]     TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
             OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
     For the transition period from .......... to ..........
                  Commission file number 1-9916

               Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.
     (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

          Delaware                               74-2480931
     (State or other jurisdiction of             (I.R.S. Employer
     incorporation or organization)              Identification No.)


       1615 Poydras Street
       New Orleans, Louisiana                          70112
    (Address of principal executive offices)         (Zip Code)

Registrant's  telephone  number,  including  area  code: (504) 582-4000

    Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                   Name of each exchange
     Title of each class                           on which registered
     -------------------                           ---------------------
Class A Common Stock par value $0.10 per share     New York Stock Exchange
Class B Common Stock par value $0.10 per share     New York Stock Exchange
Depositary Shares representing 0.05 shares of
 Step-Up Convertible Preferred Stock, par value
 $0.10 per share                                   New York Stock Exchange
Depositary Shares representing 0.05 shares of
 Gold-Denominated Preferred Stock, par value
 $0.10 per share                                   New York Stock Exchange
Depositary Shares, Series II, representing 0.05
 shares of Gold-Denominated Preferred Stock,
 Series II, par value $0.10  per share             New York Stock Exchange
Depositary Shares representing 0.025 shares of
 Silver-Denominated Preferred Stock, par value
 $0.10 per share                                   New York Stock Exchange 
9-3/4% Senior Notes due 2001 of P.T. ALatieF
 Freeport Finance Company B.V., guaranteed by 
 the registrant                                    New York Stock Exchange

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None

     Indicate by check mark  whether the registrant (1) has  filed
all reports required  to be filed  by Section 13  or 15(d) of  the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or
for such shorter period that the  registrant was required to  file
such  reports),  and   (2)  has  been   subject  to  such   filing
requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes X  No   
     Indicate by  check mark  if disclosure  of delinquent  filers
pursuant to Item 405  of Regulation S-K  is not contained  herein,
and will  not  be  contained, to  the  best  of  the  registrant's
knowledge,  in   definitive   proxy  or   information   statements
incorporated by reference  in Part III  of this Form  10-K or  any
amendment to this Form 10-K.   X 
     The  aggregate  market  value  of  classes  of  voting  stock
(common and preferred) held by non-affiliates of the registrant on
March 9, 1997 was approximately $2,871,700,000.
     On  March   9,  1997  there   were  issued  and   outstanding
72,570,444 shares of Class A  Common Stock and 108,333,838  shares
of Class B Common Stock.

               DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

     Portions of  the registrant's Annual  Report to  stockholders
for the year ended December 31, 1997 are incorporated by reference
into Parts II  and IV  of this Report  and portions  of the  Proxy
Statement submitted to the registrant's stockholders in connection
with its  1998  Annual Meeting  to  be held  on  May 5,  1998  are
incorporated by reference into Part III of this Report.







                                                                                      Page
Part I
Items 1. and 2. Business and Properties..........................1
Item 3.  Legal Proceedings......................................10
Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders....11
         Executive Officers of the Registrant ..................11

Part II
Item 5.  Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related
         Stockholder Matters....................................12
Item 6.  Selected Financial Data................................12
Items 7.  and  7A.  Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis  of
                    Financial Condition and Results of Operations
                    and Quantitative and  Qualitative 
                    Disclosures About Market Risk...............13
Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data............13
Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
         Accounting and Financial Disclosure. ..................13

Part III
Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.....13
Item 11. Executive Compensation.................................13
Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
         and Management.........................................13
Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.........13

Part IV
Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports  on
          Form 8-K..............................................14

Signatures.....................................................S-1

Index to Financial Statements..................................F-1

Report of Independent Public Accountants.......................F-1

Exhibit Index..................................................E-1

[Page]  i



                              PART I

Items 1. and 2.  Business and Properties.

General

     Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc., a Delaware  corporation
("FCX" or the "Company"),  is one of  the world's largest  copper
and gold  companies  in terms  of  reserves and  production,  and
believes that  it has  one of  the lowest  cost copper  producing
operations in the  world, taking into  account customary  credits
for related gold and silver production.

     FCX's  principal  operating  subsidiary  is  P.T.   Freeport
Indonesia  Company   ("PT-FI"),  a   limited  liability   company
organized under  the  laws  of  the  Republic  of  Indonesia  and
domesticated in Delaware.  PT-FI  engages in the exploration  for
and development, mining and processing of ore containing  copper,
gold and silver in Irian Jaya, Indonesia pursuant to an agreement
(a "Contract  of  Work" or  "COW")  with the  government  of  the
Republic of Indonesia  (the "Indonesian Government")  and in  the
worldwide marketing of concentrates containing those metals.  FCX
owns directly  an  81.28  percent interest  in  PT-FI.    Of  the
remaining 18.72 percent,  9.36 percent is  owned by  each of  the
Indonesian Government and P.T. Indocopper Investama  Corporation,
an Indonesian limited liability  company ("PT-II"), in which  FCX
owns a 49 percent interest, giving FCX an aggregate 85.87 percent
ownership interest in  PT-FI. PT-FI's operations  are located  in
the remote rugged highlands of the Sudirman Mountain Range in the
province of Irian Jaya, Indonesia, located on the western half of
the island  of  New Guinea.    The PT-FI  COW  permits  extensive
exploration, mining and  production activities in  a 24,700  acre
area,  referred  to  as  "Block  A,"  and  an  exploration   area
consisting of  approximately 3.25  million acres  referred to  as
"Block B."   PT-FI's largest  mine, Grasberg,  was discovered  in
Block A in 1988 and contains the largest single gold reserve  and
one of the three largest open-pit copper reserves of any mine  in
the world. 

     Through  P.T. IRJA  Eastern Minerals  Corporation  ("Eastern
Mining"), FCX holds an additional COW  in Irian Jaya covering  an
approximately 1.8 million acre  exploration area. Eastern  Mining
was formed  in 1994  for the  purpose of  acquiring, holding  and
developing the Eastern  Mining COW. FCX  owns 90  percent of  the
outstanding common stock of Eastern Mining through a wholly owned
subsidiary, and  the  remaining 10  percent  is owned  by  PT-II,
giving FCX  an  aggregate  94.9  percent  ownership  interest  in
Eastern Mining.

     In 1996,  FCX and Rio  Tinto plc  ("Rio Tinto")  established
exploration and  expansion  joint  ventures.    Pursuant  to  the
exploration joint ventures, Rio Tinto  has a 40 percent  interest
in future  development  projects  under the  PT-FI  COW  and  the
Eastern Mining COW.  Rio Tinto also has a 40 percent interest  in
certain assets and future  production exceeding specified  annual
amounts of copper, gold and silver through 2021.

     In December 1997, FCX  signed a letter of intent to  acquire
an ownership interest in an entity  that holds a COW covering  an
area of approximately 1.2 million acres  in central Irian Jaya.  
See "Exploration."

     FCX is also engaged  in the smelting and refining of  copper
concentrates in  Spain  and  marketing  refined  copper  products
through its indirect, wholly  owned subsidiary, Atlantic  Copper,
S.A., formerly Atlantic  Copper Holding, S.A.  ("Atlantic").   At
December 31, 1997, Atlantic's smelter  had a capacity of  290,000
metric tons of metal per year.   PT-FI has a 25 percent  interest
in P.T. Smelting Co. ("PT Smelting") an Indonesian company formed
to construct and operate a copper smelter and refinery in Gresik,
East Java, Indonesia having a  design capacity of 200,000  metric
tons of copper  cathode per  year.   The smelter  is expected  to
become fully operational during the second half of 1998 and it is
anticipated that PT-FI will provide  all of the smelter's  copper
concentrate.

Republic of Indonesia

     The  Republic of  Indonesia  consists of  more  than  17,000
islands stretching 3,000 miles along the equator from Malaysia to
Australia and is  the fourth most  populous nation  in the  world
with over  200 million  people.   Following many  years of  Dutch
colonial rule, Indonesia gained independence in 1945 and now  has
a  presidential   republic   system  of   government   in   which
parliamentary and  presidential  elections are  held  every  five
years. President Suharto, who  assumed power in  1966 and is  now
76, was re-elected in March 1998  to a seventh consecutive  five-
year term.

[Page]  1

     Maintaining  a   good  relationship   with  the   Indonesian
Government is of particular importance to the Company because all
of its mining operations are located in Indonesia. PT-FI's mining
complex was Indonesia's first copper  mining project and was  the
first  major  foreign  investment  in  Indonesia  following   the
economic  development   program   instituted   by   the   Suharto
administration in  1967. PT-FI  works closely  with the  central,
provincial and local  governments in development  efforts in  the
vicinity  of  its  operations.   The  Company's  current   mining
operations in Indonesia are conducted through PT-FI by virtue  of
the PT-FI COW and through Eastern Mining by virtue of the Eastern
Mining COW, both of which have 30-year terms, provide for two 10-
year extensions under certain conditions, and govern PT-FI's  and
Eastern  Mining's  rights  and  obligations  relating  to  taxes,
exchange controls,  royalties,  repatriation and  other  matters.
Both COWs were  concluded pursuant  to the  1967 Foreign  Capital
Investment Law,  which expresses  Indonesia's foreign  investment
policy and  provides basic  guarantees of  remittance rights  and
protection against  nationalization,  a  framework  for  economic
incentives and basic rules regarding other rights and obligations
of foreign investors.

     PT-FI's  current  mining  operations  are  located  in   the
Indonesian province  of Irian  Jaya, which  occupies the  western
half of the  island of New  Guinea and became  part of  Indonesia
during the  early  1960s.  The area  surrounding  PT-FI's  mining
development is sparsely populated  by primitive local tribes  and
former residents of  more populous  areas of  Indonesia, some  of
whom  have  resettled   in  Irian  Jaya   under  the   Indonesian
Government's transmigration program. Certain members of the local
population oppose Indonesian  rule over Irian  Jaya, and  several
small separatist  groups  seek  political  independence  for  the
province. Sporadic attacks  on civilians by  the separatists  and
sporadic but highly publicized conflicts between separatists  and
the Indonesian military have led  to allegations of human  rights
violations. PT-FI  personnel  have  not been  involved  in  those
conflicts.  The  Indonesian military  occasionally has  exercised
its right to  appropriate transportation and  other equipment  of
PT-FI to use in its security operations.

     PT-FI's  policy  has  been  to  operate  in  Irian  Jaya  in
compliance with Indonesian laws and in a manner that improves the
lives of the  local population.   PT-FI incurs significant  costs
associated with  its  social  and  cultural  activities.    These
activities include  comprehensive  job training  programs,  basic
education programs, extensive malaria control and several  public
health programs,  agricultural  assistance programs,  a  business
incubator program  to encourage  the  local people  to  establish
their own small scale businesses, cultural preservation programs,
and  charitable  donations.  In  early  1996,  the  international
consulting  firm  of  LABAT-Anderson  undertook  a  comprehensive
independent audit  of social  programs at  PT-FI's operations  in
Irian Jaya.  In July 1997, the LABAT-Anderson team submitted  its
final report to the Indonesian Government and PT-FI, which  noted
that PT-FI had gone  beyond requirements in providing  assistance
for the development of the local people.  The report also made  a
number of recommendations designed to make PT-FI's programs  more
effective, including restructuring  PT-FI's participation in  the
Indonesian Government's development plan for the area to  provide
for more direct input by local people through their leaders.   In
implementing  these  recommendations,  PT-FI  has  undertaken   a
restructuring  of  its  role   in  the  Indonesian   Government's
development plan for the Timika area.  Through the Freeport  Fund
for Irian Jaya Development, PT-FI would make available  expertise
to support the economic and social development of the area.   PT-
FI has agreed to dedicate one percent of its annual revenues  for
ten years beginning in 1996 to this fund, which will work closely
with the  Indonesian  Government's local  and  regional  planning
boards to  coordinate  developmental projects  and  activities.  
While management believes  that its efforts  to be responsive  to
the issues relating to the impact of its operations on the  local
villages and tribes should serve  to avoid disruptions of  mining
operations, social and political instability in the area may,  in
the future, have an adverse impact on PT-FI's mining operations.

Contracts of Work

     The PT-FI COW covers both Block A, which was originally  the
subject of  a  1967  COW  between  PT-FI's  predecessor  and  the
Indonesian Government, and Block B, to which PT-FI gained  rights
 in 1991. The initial term of  the PT-FI COW expires in  December
2021 with  provisions for  two 10-year  extensions under  certain
conditions.   Pursuant to  the PT-FI  COW, PT-FI  is required  to
relinquish its rights to portions of Block B in amounts equal  to
25 percent of the original 6.5  million acres at the end of  each
of three specified periods during a span of four to seven  years,
depending on extensions  requested by  PT-FI and  granted by  the
Indonesian Government.  The acreage to be released is  determined
by PT-FI  and need  not be  contiguous.   PT-FI has  relinquished
approximately  3.25  million  acres.     The  final  25   percent
relinquishment (approximately 1.6  million acres)  will occur  no
later  than  December  1998,   unless  PT-FI  requests  and   the
Indonesian  Government  grants  an  extension.      In  order  to
determine  which  acreage   to  relinquish   pursuant  to   these
requirements, PT-FI has conducted  an active exploration  program
since 1989,  focusing  on what  PT-FI  believes to  be  the  most
promising exploration opportunities in Block B.

[Page]  2

     In  August 1994,  Eastern  Mining was  granted  the  Eastern
Mining COW originally covering approximately 2.5 million acres in
three separate blocks.   The Eastern  Mining COW  provides for  a
four-to-seven year exploratory term and a 30-year term for actual
mining operations  with  provisions for  two  10-year  extensions
under certain  conditions.    Like  the  PT-FI COW,  the  Eastern
Mining COW requires  Eastern Mining  to relinquish  its right  to
portions of the  Eastern Mining  COW area  determined by  Eastern
Mining  in  amounts   equal  to  25   percent  of  the   original
approximately 2.5  million acres  at the  end  of each  of  three
specified periods. Eastern Mining has relinquished  approximately
0.7 million acres and must relinquish an additional approximately
1.2 million acres in two equal installments no later than  August
1998 and August 2001.

Ore Reserves

     All of PT-FI's proved  and probable reserves, including  the
Grasberg deposit, lie within Block A.   In 1997, PT-FI  increased
its proved and probable  reserves by approximately 204.8  million
metric tons of ore representing 5.0 billion recoverable pounds of
copper, 9.2 million recoverable ounces  of gold and 22.3  million
recoverable ounces of silver. December 31, 1997 aggregate  proved
and  probable  recoverable  reserves,  net  of  1997  production,
totaled 2.17 billion  metric tons of  ore averaging 1.20  percent
copper, 1.20  grams of  gold per  metric ton  and 3.95  grams  of
silver per metric ton representing 47.1 billion pounds of copper,
62.7 million ounces of gold and 138.4 million ounces of silver.  
Pursuant to  joint  venture  arrangements, Rio  Tinto  has  a  40
percent interest in future production exceeding specified  annual
amounts of copper,  gold and  silver through  2021 calculated  by
reference to PT-FI's proved and probable reserves as of  December
31, 1994.  Rio Tinto's 40  percent share of joint venture  proved
and probable reserves as of  December 31, 1997 was  approximately
9.3 billion pounds  of copper, 11.4  million ounces  of gold  and
27.1 million  ounces  of  silver.   Net  of  Rio  Tinto's  share,
additions and revisions  to PT-FI's proved  and probable  copper,
gold  and  silver  reserves  represent  2.6  times  1997   copper
production, over 3 times  1997 gold production  and over 5  times
1997 silver production.  Net of Rio Tinto's share, PT-FI's  share
of proved  and  probable  recoverable  copper,  gold  and  silver
reserves was 37.8 billion pounds  of copper, 51.3 million  ounces
of gold and  111.3 million ounces  of silver as  of December  31,
1997.   Estimated  recoverable  reserves were  assessed  using  a
copper price of  $0.90 per  pound and a  gold price  of $325  per
ounce.  Using prices  of $0.75 per pound  of copper and $280  per
ounce of  gold would  reduce  estimated recoverable  reserves  by
approximately 12 percent for  copper, 9 percent  for gold and  15
percent for silver. 

     The  Grasberg  deposit  contains  the  largest  single  gold
reserve and is one of the three largest open-pit copper  reserves
of any mine in the world. The Grasberg deposit contained combined
open pit and underground proved and  probable ore reserves as  of
December 31, 1997 of 1.76 billion metric tons at an average grade
of 1.12 percent  copper, 1.20 grams  of gold per  metric ton  and
3.22 grams of silver per metric ton.  Kucing Liar contained as of
December 31,  1997  proved and  probable  ore reserves  of  221.9
million metric tons at an average  grade of 1.42 percent  copper,
1.57 grams of gold  per metric ton and  5.12 grams of silver  per
metric ton.

     The Company's  reserves as  of December  31, 1996  and  1997
included in this report have been verified by Independent  Mining
Consultants, Inc., and this reserve information has been included
in this  report in  reliance upon  the authority  of  Independent
Mining Consultants,  Inc.  as  experts  in  mining,  geology  and
reserve determination.  See "Cautionary Statements." 

Mining Operations

     Mines  in  Production. PT-FI  currently  has  two  mines  in
operation: the  Grasberg  and  the  Intermediate  Ore  Zone  (the
"IOZ"), both within Block A. Open pit mining of the Grasberg  ore
body commenced in  January 1990, and  in 1997  the Grasberg  mine
output totaled  approximately 44.5  million metric  tons of  ore,
providing  approximately  92   percent  of   PT-FI's  total   ore
production  in  1997.  The  IOZ  is  an  underground  block  cave
operation that  was placed  in production  in the  first half  of
1994.  Production  is  at   the  3,550  meter  elevation   level,
approximately 300 meters below  the Ertsberg East deposit,  which
was depleted in the  second half of 1994.   In 1997, output  from
the IOZ mine  totaled approximately  3.9 million  metric tons  of
ore.

     Mines in  Development. Four  other significant  ore  bodies,
referred to as the Deep Ore Zone ("DOZ"), the DOM, the Big Gossan
and Kucing Liar  are located in  Block A.   These ore bodies  are
currently at various  stages of development,  and are carried  as
proved and probable reserves.  See "Cautionary Statements."

[Page]  3

     The DOZ  ore body  lies vertically  below the  IOZ.  Initial
production from  the  DOZ ore  body  commenced in  1989  but  was
suspended in  favor  of  production from  the  Grasberg  deposit.
Production is  anticipated to  recommence  as the  overlying  IOZ
reserve is depleted.

     The DOM ore body  lies approximately 1,200 meters  southeast
of the depleted Ertsberg East deposit. Pre-production development
was completed as the Grasberg began open pit production in  1990,
and all  maintenance, warehouse  and  service facilities  are  in
place. Production at the DOM ore body was deferred as a result of
the  increasing  reserves  and  production  capabilities  of  the
Grasberg.

     The  Big Gossan  ore  body is  located  approximately  1,000
meters  southwest  of  the  original  Ertsberg  deposit.  Initial
underground development  of  the  ore body  began  in  1993  when
tunnels were driven from the mill  area into the ore zone at  the
2,900 meter elevation level. A  variety of stopping methods  will
be used to mine the deposit, with production expected to commence
within  the  next  ten  years  as  other  underground  mines  are
depleted.

     The Kucing Liar ore body  lies on the southern flank of  and
underneath the  southern  portion  of the  Grasberg  open  pit.  
Delineation drilling is currently under way in three  underground
stations at Kucing Liar.

Exploration

     In  addition  to  continued  delineation  of  the   Grasberg
deposit and other deposits  discussed under "Mining  Operations,"
PT-FI is  continuing its  exploration program  within Block  A.  
Exploration drilling  continues at  other targets  including  the
IOZ/DOZ Extensions, Guru  East, Idenberg,  West Grasberg,  DOM-SE
and Kay, while surface geological evaluations continue to develop
targets at  the  South Wanagon,  Zaagkam  Ridge, VN  and  Wanagon
prospects.

     Exploration  of   Block  B  has   indicated  more  than   70
exploration targets, and follow-up exploration of these anomalies
is now in progress.  PT-FI has focused its Block B drilling in an
area 35 kilometers north  of the Grasberg  deposit at a  prospect
called Wabu, which  lies within the  Hitalipa District.   A  pre-
feasibility study on the Wabu Ridge gold prospect is ongoing with
a potential commercial operation being  studied.  Because of  its
size and  number  of geologic  leads,  the Hitalipa  District  is
likely to be explored for many years. Drilling results are  being
interpreted, and no assurance can be given that any of these  new
areas contain commercially exploitable mineral deposits.

     Pursuant to the exploration joint ventures, Rio Tinto has  a
40 percent interest in future development projects under the  PT-
FI COW and the Eastern Mining COW.  Under these arrangements, Rio
Tinto funded $100 million in 1996 for approved exploration  costs
in the areas covered by the PT-FI COW and the Eastern Mining COW.
 As of  December  31, 1997,  $11.4  million in  PT-FI's  Block  A
remains to be applied to the  $100 million Rio Tinto  exploration
funding and  is  classified as  a  current liability.    Mutually
agreed upon  exploration costs  in PT-FI's  Block B  and  Eastern
Mining's COW areas are now being shared 60 percent by FCX and  40
percent by Rio Tinto.

     In December 1997, FCX  signed a letter of intent to  acquire
an ownership interest in P.T. Iriana Mutiara Mining ("Iriana").  
Iriana holds a COW covering an area of approximately 1.2  million
acres in  central  Irian  Jaya, in  part  contiguous  to  Eastern
Mining's COW area.   The transaction is  subject to execution  of
definitive documentation  pursuant  to  which  FCX  would  become
operator of  the Iriana  COW area.   As  operator, FCX  would  be
required to spend at least $0.5 million on exploration in 1998.  
If FCX elects to continue participation beyond June 30, 1999,  it
would acquire a 90 percent ownership interest and would fund  all
exploration costs up to and including  a feasibility study.   FCX
would also be  responsible for  arranging construction  financing
for Iriana for any economically  feasible projects in the  Iriana
COW area. Pursuant to the  Rio Tinto joint venture  arrangements,
Rio Tinto  has  the option  to  participate with  respect  to  40
percent of FCX's interest in this 1.2 million acre COW area.

Milling and Production

     The ore from PT-FI's mines  moves by a conveyor system to  a
series of ore passes through which  it drops to the mill  complex
located at approximately  2,900 meters  above sea  level. At  the
mill, the ore is crushed and ground and mixed in tanks with water
and small amounts of chemical  reagents where it is  continuously
agitated with  air.  During  this  physical  separation  process,
copper-bearing particles rise  to the top  of the  tanks and  are
collected and thickened. The

[Page]  4

concentrate leaves the mill  complex
as a thickened concentrate slurry, consisting of approximately 65
percent solids  by  weight,  and  is  pumped  through  three  115
kilometer pipelines to the port site facility at Amamapare  where
it is filtered, dried and stored  for shipping. Ships are  loaded
at dock  facilities at  the port  until they  draw their  maximum
water, then move to deeper water, where loading is completed from
shuttling barges.

     In  1997,  FCX  produced  1.17  billion  pounds  of  copper,
approximately 4 percent more than in 1996, and 1,798,300   ounces
of gold, approximately  6 percent  more than  in 1996,  resulting
from record average ore throughput of 128,600 metric tons of  ore
per day ("MTPD"), as compared to  an average of 127,400 MTPD  for
1996.  Average cash  production costs in  1997, net of  customary
gold and silver credits, were  $0.221 per pound of copper,  which
were higher than the comparable 1996 average primarily because of
lower gold credits.

     During 1997,  recovery rates  averaged 85.4  percent of  the
copper content, 81.4 percent of the gold content and 65.6 percent
of the  silver content  of the  ore processed,  compared to  83.8
percent, 77.1  percent  and 64.6  percent,  respectively,  during
1996.

     Construction on the "fourth concentrator mill expansion"  of
PT-FI's facilities is expected to  be completed during the  first
half of 1998.  The expanded  mill facilities provide the  Company
an opportunity  to increase  throughput beyond  200,000 MTPD  and
improve profitability by  optimizing the ore  available from  PT-
FI's mines. Costs for the  expansion are expected to  approximate
$960 million,  including both  working capital  and a  coal-fired
power plant and  related facilities.   The  new power  facilities
were sold in  December 1997 to  the joint venture  that owns  the
assets that provide  electricity to PT-FI.   See  "Infrastructure
Improvements."  To  finance the  expansion, Rio  Tinto agreed  to
make available to PT-FI a nonrecourse loan of up to $450 million.
 Through December 31, 1997, Rio  Tinto has funded $744.0  million
of expansion  costs  ($446.4  million loaned  to  PT-FI  and  the
remainder funded directly by Rio  Tinto).  Expansion costs  above
$750 million will be funded 60 percent by PT-FI and 40 percent by
Rio Tinto except for  approximately $80 million  for costs to  be
funded solely by  PT-FI to enhance  the profitability of  PT-FI's
existing operations.  Incremental cash flow attributable to these
expansion projects will be shared 60 percent PT-FI and 40 percent
Rio Tinto.  PT-FI  has assigned its  interest in the  incremental
cash flow to  Rio Tinto until  Rio Tinto has  received an  amount
equal to  the funds  lent to  PT-FI plus  interest based  on  Rio
Tinto's cost of borrowing.   The incremental production from  the
expansion,  as   well  as   production  from   PT-FI's   existing
operations,  will   share   proportionately  in   operating   and
administrative costs.  PT-FI will continue to receive 100 percent
of cash flow from  specified annual amounts  of copper, gold  and
silver through 2021  calculated by  reference to  its proved  and
probable reserves as of December 31, 1994. 

     In  December   1997,  PT-FI  received   approval  from   the
Indonesian authorities to expand its milling rate up to a maximum
of 300,000 MTPD.  See "Environmental Matters."

Gresik Smelter

     In  July  1996, PT  Smelting  commenced  construction  of  a
copper smelter in  Gresik, East Java,  Indonesia having a  design
capacity of 200,000 metric tons of copper cathode per year.   PT-
FI, Mitsubishi  Materials Corporation  ("Mitsubishi  Materials"),
Mitsubishi Corporation ("Mitsubishi") and Nippon Mining &  Metals
Co., Ltd. ("Nippon") own 25.0 percent, 60.5 percent, 9.5  percent
and 5.0 percent  interests, respectively, of  the outstanding  PT
Smelting stock.   The  estimated aggregate  project cost,  before
working capital requirements, is approximately $625 million.   PT
Smelting has  a $300  million nonrecourse  term loan  and a  $110
million working  capital facility  with a  group of  banks.   The
remaining  funding  will   be  provided   by  PT-FI,   Mitsubishi
Materials,  Mitsubishi  and  Nippon  in  accordance  with   their
interests.    Construction is expected  to be  completed in  mid-
1998. It  is  anticipated that  PT-FI  will provide  all  of  the
smelter's  copper  concentrate  requirements  at  market   rates;
however, for the first 15 years  of operations the treatment  and
refining charges would not fall below a specified minimum rate.  
PT-FI has also agreed to assign, if necessary, its earnings in PT
Smelting to  support a  13 percent  cumulative annual  return  to
Mitsubishi Materials,  Mitsubishi and  Nippon  for the  first  20
years of commercial operations. 

Infrastructure Improvements

     The location of PT-FI's current operations in a remote  area
requires that  its operations  be virtually  self-sufficient.  In
addition to the mining facilities described above, the facilities
originally constructed  by or  with  the

[Page]  5

participation  of  PT-FI
include an  airport, a  port, a  119  kilometer road,  an  aerial
tramway, a hospital and two town sites with housing, schools  and
other facilities sufficient to support more than 17,000 persons.

     In 1996,  PT-FI completed the  first phase  of the  Enhanced
Infrastructure   Program   ("EIP"),   which   includes    various
residential, community  and commercial  facilities.   The EIP  is
designed  to  provide  the  infrastructure  needed  for   PT-FI's
operations,  to  enhance   the  living   conditions  of   PT-FI's
employees, and to  develop and promote  the growth  of local  and
other third party activities and enterprises in Irian Jaya.   The
full EIP  includes  plans for  various  commercial,  residential,
educational, retail,  medical,  recreational,  environmental  and
other infrastructure facilities to be constructed over a  ten-to-
twenty year period.  The  facilities constructed through the  EIP
have been and are expected to  continue to be developed by  PT-FI
through  joint  ventures  or  direct  ownership  involving  local
Indonesian interests and other investors. 

     In March 1997, PT-FI completed the final $75.0 million  sale
of infrastructure assets to joint ventures owned one-third by PT-
FI  and  two-thirds   by  P.T.   ALatieF  Nusakarya   Corporation
("ALatieF"), an Indonesian  investor.  The  sales to the  ALatieF
joint ventures  totaled $270.0  million  during the  period  from
December 1993 to March  1997.  PT-FI  subsequently sold its  one-
third interest in the  joint ventures to  ALatieF and is  leasing
the infrastructure  assets under  infrastructure asset  financing
arrangements.  PT-FI continues to guarantee an approximately  $50
million bank loan associated with the purchases. 

     In December  1997, PT-FI  completed a  $366.4 million  sale,
including $74.4 million  for the remaining  costs expected to  be
incurred  to  complete  construction,  of  the  new  power  plant
facilities associated with the fourth concentrator mill expansion
to the joint venture  that owns the  assets that already  provide
electricity to PT-FI.  The purchase price included $123.2 million
for Rio Tinto's share  of the new  power plant facilities.  PT-FI
subsequently sold its 30 percent interest in the joint venture to
the other partners and  is purchasing power under  infrastructure
asset financing arrangements pursuant to a power sales agreement.


Marketing

     PT-FI   supplies   copper   concentrates,   which    contain
significant quantities of  gold and silver,   primarily to  Asian
and European smelters and international trading companies. All of
PT-FI's concentrate  sales are  made  in United  States  dollars.
Substantially  all  of  PT-FI's  budgeted  production  of  copper
concentrates is sold under long-term contracts, pursuant to which
the selling price is based on world metals prices (generally  the
London Metal  Exchange  ("LME")  settlement prices  for  Grade  A
copper) less certain allowances.  Under these contracts,  initial
billing occurs at the  time of shipment  and final settlement  on
the copper portion  generally occurs three  months after  arrival
based on average  LME prices for  that month.  Gold generally  is
sold at the London Bullion  Market Association average price  for
the month  of  shipment.  Revenues  from  concentrate  sales  are
recorded net of royalties, treatment  and refining costs and  the
impact of derivative financial instruments, if any, used to hedge
against risks from copper and  gold price fluctuations. Per  unit
royalty payments  to  the  Indonesian  Government  increase  with
increased copper values and range from 1.5 percent to 3.5 percent
of copper prices at the time  of shipment, net of delivery  costs
and treatment and refining charges. A 1.0 percent royalty is paid
to the Indonesian Government on gold and silver sales. PT-FI  has
agreed with  the  Indonesian  Government that  on  production  in
excess of 200,000 MTPD it will  pay a second royalty.   Treatment
and refining costs  represent payments to  smelters and  refiners
and are either fixed or in certain cases float with the price  of
copper. A small portion of PT-FI's budgeted production of  copper
concentrates, and any production  in excess of budgeted  amounts,
is sold in the spot market.  See "Cautionary Statements." 

     PT-FI has obtained  commitments, including commitments  from
Atlantic, for essentially all of its estimated 1998 production at
market prices.  PT-FI's  share of sales for  1998 is expected  to
approximate 1.4 billion pounds of  copper and 2.2 million  ounces
of gold. PT-FI's  estimated 1998  copper and  gold sales  reflect
management's expectation of producing  at higher mill  throughput
rates than  in  1997  because of  the  fourth  concentrator  mill
expansion, partially offset by  lower average grades than  during
1997. PT-FI has  a long-term  contract to  provide Atlantic  with
approximately 60 percent of  its copper concentrate  requirements
at market prices.


[Page]  6

Competition

     PT-FI competes with  other mining companies  in the sale  of
its mineral  concentrates and  the recruitment  and retention  of
qualified personnel. Some  competing companies possess  financial
resources equal to  or greater  than those  of PT-FI.  Management
believes, however, that PT-FI  is one of  the lowest cost  copper
producers in the world, taking into account customary credits for
related gold and silver production.

Environmental Matters

     Management  believes  that  PT-FI's  operations  are   being
conducted pursuant to applicable permits and are in compliance in
all material  respects with  applicable Indonesian  environmental
laws, rules and regulations. In 1996, PT-FI began contributing to
a fund designed to accumulate at least $100 million at the end of
its  Indonesian  mine's  life  for  eventual  mine  closure   and
reclamation.   Although the  ultimate amount  of reclamation  and
closure costs to be  incurred is currently indeterminable,  based
on recent analyses PT-FI estimates that ultimate reclamation  and
closure costs may require as much  as $100 million but would  not
exceed $150 million.

     Mining operations  on  the scale  of PT-FI's  operations  in
Irian  Jaya   involve   significant   environmental   challenges,
primarily related to the disposition  of tailings, which are  the
crushed and  ground rock  material  resulting from  the  physical
separation of commercially  valuable minerals from  the ore.  The
Company has  an  extensive,  ongoing management  system  for  the
disposal of tailings in connection  with discharging them into  a
river system downstream from  its milling operations. In  January
1997, PT-FI completed a levee system,  as part of its  Indonesian
Government-approved Tailings  Management  Plan, to  minimize  the
impact of the  tailings on the  environment through a  controlled
deposition  area   that   ultimately  will   be   reclaimed   and
revegetated.

     In 1995, PT-FI participated in an independent  environmental
audit of its Irian Jaya operations  under a program monitored  by
the Indonesian Government.   The environmental  audit report  was
released in 1996 and included a total of 33 recommendations,  all
of which have  been implemented.  The audit  team identified  the
disposal of  tailings as  the most  critical environmental  issue
facing  PT-FI,  requiring  significant  study,  engineering   and
monitoring over the life of the  mine.  The audit concluded  that
PT-FI's Tailings and River  Management Plan represented the  most
suitable option for tailings disposal considering the engineering
and environmental  challenges  in Irian  Jaya.   The  audit  also
confirmed that the  tailings from PT-FI's  mining operations  are
non-toxic, the mining operations do not pose any significant risk
to Irian Jaya's  bio-diversity and PT-FI's  operations are  being
conducted in all material respects in compliance with  applicable
Indonesian environmental  laws,  rules and  regulations.    PT-FI
intends to implement a program of independent external audits and
continue its  internal  audits through  the  life of  its  mining
operations  so   that   PT-FI's  environmental   management   and
monitoring programs  remain sound  to  ensure compliance  in  all
material respects with applicable Indonesian environmental  laws,
rules and regulations and to preserve and protect the environment
in its area of operations.

     In December 1997, PT-FI received approval from the  Minister
of   Environment   for   its   Regional   AMDAL    (comprehensive
environmental assessment,  monitoring plan  and management  plan)
study, which is necessary  to allow PT-FI  to expand its  milling
rate up to a  maximum of 300,000 MTPD.   PT-FI also has  received
approval from the Department of Mines and Energy for operations  
up to 300,000 MTPD.   All of  PT-FI's environmental programs  are
being expanded  and  upgraded  in accordance  with  the  approved
300,000 MTPD Regional AMDAL study.

     Management   believes   that   Atlantic's   facilities   and
operations are in  compliance in all  material respects with  all
applicable Spanish  environmental  laws, rules  and  regulations.
Atlantic recently  completed modifications  to and  expanded  its
sulfuric  acid  plants,   which  has   resulted  in   significant
reductions in  air emissions.  In addition,  Atlantic expects  to
realize significant  additional environmental  improvements  upon
completion of other projects currently under way.

     The  Indonesian and  Spanish  governments  may  periodically
revise their  environmental laws  and  regulations or  adopt  new
ones, and  the effects  on the  Company's  operations of  new  or
revised regulations cannot be predicted.

     The  Company  has   expended  significant  resources,   both
financial  and   managerial,   to   comply   with   environmental
regulations  and  permitting   and  approval  requirements,   and
anticipates that it will continue to do so in the future.   There
can  be  no  assurance  that  additional  significant  costs  and
liabilities will not be incurred to comply with such

[Page]  7

current  and
future regulations  or  that such  regulations  will not  have  a
material effect  on the  Company's operations.   See  "Cautionary
Statements."

Sale of PT-II Stock

     In March  1997,  P.T. Nusamba  Mineral Industri  ("NMI"),  a
subsidiary of P.T. Nusantara Ampera Bakti, acquired from a  third
party approximately 51 percent  of the capital  stock of PT-II.  
NMI financed $254 million of the $315 million purchase price with
a variable rate commercial loan maturing in March 2002.   FCX has
agreed that if NMI  defaults on the loan,  FCX will purchase  the
PT-II stock or the lenders' interest  in the commercial loan  for
the amount then due by  NMI under the loan.   FCX also agreed  to
lend to  NMI any  amounts to  cover  any shortfalls  between  the
interest payments due  on the commercial  loan and the  dividends
received by NMI from PT-II.  

Employees of PT-FI and Relationship with FM Services Company

     As  of December  31,  1997, PT-FI  had  approximately  6,300
employees (approximately 96 percent Indonesian).  In addition, as
of December  31, 1997,  PT-FI had  approximately 10,300  contract
workers, most of whom were Indonesian.  Approximately 56  percent
of PT-FI's Indonesian employees are members of the All  Indonesia
Workers'  Union,  which  operates  under  Indonesian   Government
supervision and is  party to a  labor agreement covering  PT-FI's
hourly-paid Indonesian employees  that expires  on September  30,
1999.  PT-FI experienced no work stoppages in 1997, and relations
with the union  have generally  been good.   As  of December  31,
1997,  Atlantic  had  approximately   800  employees,  of   which
approximately  34  percent  are  covered  by  union  contracts.  
Atlantic experienced no work stoppages in 1997 and relations with
these unions have also generally been good.

     Since  January 1,  1996,  FM Services  Company,  a  Delaware
corporation 40  percent  owned  by  FCX  ("FMS"),  has  furnished
executive, administrative,  financial,  accounting,  legal,  tax,
sales and  similar services  to FCX,  PT-FI, Eastern  Mining  and
Atlantic.  FCX reimburses FMS,  at its cost, including  allocated
overhead, for these services on a monthly basis.  As of  December
31, 1997, FCX had 271 employees and FMS had 220 employees.

Cautionary Statements

     This  report includes  "forward-looking  statements"  within
the meaning  of Section 27A  of the  Securities Act  of 1933  and
Section 21E of  the Securities Exchange  Act of  1934.   Forward-
looking statements are  all statements other  than statements  of
historical fact  included  in  this  report,  including,  without
limitation,  statements   under   the  headings   "Business   and
Properties," "Market for Registrant's  Common Equity and  Related
Stockholder Matters," and  "Management's Discussion and  Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Quantitative
and Qualitative  Disclosures  About Market  Risk"  regarding  the
Company's financial position and liquidity, payment of dividends,
strategic growth initiatives,  future capital needs,  development
and  capital  expenditures  (including  the  amount  and   nature
thereof), reclamation  and  closure costs,  exploration  efforts,
reserve estimates and additions,  production levels, ore  grades,
commodity prices, revenues, business strategies, and other  plans
and objectives of the Company's management for future  operations
and activities. 

     Forward-looking statements are based on certain  assumptions
and analyses made by the Company  in light of its experience  and
its perception of historical trends, current conditions, expected
future developments and other factors it believes are appropriate
under the  circumstances.   These  statements  are subject  to  a
number of  assumptions, risks  and uncertainties,  including  the
risk factors discussed below and  in the Company's other  filings
with the Securities and Exchange Commission, general economic and
business conditions,  the  business  opportunities  that  may  be
presented to  and pursued  by the  Company,  changes in  laws  or
regulations and  other  factors, many  of  which are  beyond  the
Company's control.  Readers  are cautioned that these  statements
are not guarantees of future performance, and the actual  results
or developments  may  differ  materially  from  those  projected,
predicted or  assumed in  the  forward-looking statements.    All
subsequent   written   and   oral   forward-looking    statements
attributable to the Company or persons  acting on its behalf  are
expressly  qualified  in  their  entirety  by  these   cautionary
statements.    Important factors that could cause actual  results
to differ materially from those projected in the  forward-looking
statements  include, among others:

     Commodity Price Risk.  FCX's revenues are derived  primarily
from PT-FI's  sale of  copper  concentrates, which  also  contain
significant amounts of gold, and  from Atlantic's sale of  copper
cathodes and wire  rod. FCX's net

[Page]  8

income can vary  significantly
with fluctuations  in the  market prices  of  copper and  gold.  
Prices for copper  and gold historically  have fluctuated  widely
and are affected by  numerous factors beyond  FCX's control.   In
addition, PT-FI's concentrate  sales agreements,  with regard  to
copper, provide for provisional billings when shipped with  final
settlement generally  based  on  the  average  LME  price  for  a
specified future month.  Copper revenues on provisionally  priced
open pounds are adjusted monthly based  on then current prices.  
Movement in the  average price used  for these  open pounds  will
have an impact on FCX's net income.

     Location and Industry Risks.  PT-FI's mining operations  are
located in steeply mountainous terrain in  a very remote area  of
Indonesia, which makes  the conduct of  its operations  difficult
and  has   required  PT-FI   to  overcome   special   engineering
difficulties and  develop extensive  infrastructure facilities.  
The area is subject  to considerable rainfall,  which has led  to
periodic floods and  mud slides.   The mine  site is  also in  an
active seismic area, and earth tremors have been experienced from
time to  time.    PT-FI  also  is  subject  to  the  usual  risks
encountered  in   the  mining   industry,  including   unexpected
geological conditions resulting in cave-ins, floodings and  rock-
bursts and unexpected changes in rock stability conditions.  None
of these  factors have  caused any  significant interruptions  to
production or significant property damage,  although no assurance
can be given that delays or damage will not occur in the  future.
 PT-FI has substantial insurance involving the amounts and  types
of coverage as it believes  are appropriate for its  exploration,
development, mining and processing activities in Indonesia.

     Political  and  Social   Factors.    Recently,   unfavorable
economic developments have negatively affected Southeast Asia  in
general and Indonesia in  particular.  Indonesia's national  debt
ratings have been downgraded, the Indonesian rupiah has  devalued
significantly and the Indonesian  economic growth rate and  stock
market values have declined.  The International Monetary Fund and
certain countries  are  making  loans and  other  commitments  to
Indonesia, as well as certain  other Asian nations, to  stabilize
their currencies' values and their ability  to service debt.   In
return, changes  in  these countries'  financial  and  regulatory
practices are being required.   Repercussions of these and  other
economic developments  have  also negatively  affected  commodity
markets, including copper and gold prices, because of anticipated
declines in Asian demand.

     Maintaining a good working relationship with the  Indonesian
Government is of particular importance to the Company because its
principal operations  are located  in Indonesia.  PT-FI's  mining
complex was Indonesia's first copper  mining project and was  the
first  major  foreign  investment  in  Indonesia  following   the
economic  development   program   instituted   by   the   Suharto
administration in  1967. PT-FI  works closely  with the  central,
provincial and local  governments in development  efforts in  the
vicinity of its operations.

     The Company  operates in Indonesia  through PT-FI by  virtue
of the PT-FI  COW and  through Eastern  Mining by  virtue of  the
Eastern Mining COW, both of which have 30-year terms, provide for
two 10-year extensions under  certain conditions, and govern  PT-
FI's and  Eastern Mining's  rights  and obligations  relating  to
taxes,  exchange  controls,  royalties,  repatriation  and  other
matters. Both COWs  were concluded pursuant  to the 1967  Foreign
Capital  Investment  Law,  which  expresses  Indonesia's  foreign
investment policy  and provides  basic guarantees  of  remittance
rights and protection  against nationalization,  a framework  for
economic incentives and  basic rules regarding  other rights  and
obligations of foreign investors. Any disputes under the COWs are
subject to international arbitration.

     PT-FI's  mining operations  are  located in  the  Indonesian
province of Irian Jaya,  which occupies the  western half of  the
island of  New Guinea  and became  part of  Indonesia during  the
early 1960s. The area  surrounding PT-FI's mining development  is
sparsely populated by primitive local tribes and former residents
of more populous areas of Indonesia, some of whom have  resettled
in Irian Jaya  under the  Indonesian Government's  transmigration
program.  Certain  members   of  the   local  population   oppose
Indonesian rule  over Irian  Jaya, and  several small  separatist
groups seek  political independence  for the  province.  Sporadic
attacks on civilians by the  separatists and sporadic but  highly
publicized  conflicts  between  separatists  and  the  Indonesian
military have led to allegations of human rights violations.  PT-
FI personnel  have not  been involved  in those  conflicts.   The
Indonesian military  occasionally  has  exercised  its  right  to
appropriate transportation and other equipment of PT-FI.

     PT-FI's  policy  has  been  to  operate  in  Irian  Jaya  in
compliance with Indonesian laws and in a manner that improves the
lives of the  local population.   PT-FI incurs significant  costs
associated  with  its  social  and  cultural  activities.    Such
activities include  comprehensive  job training  programs,  basic
education programs, extensive malaria control and general  public
health programs,  agricultural  assistance programs,  a  business
incubator program  to encourage  the  local

[Page]  9

people  to  establish
their own small scale businesses, cultural preservation programs,
and charitable  donations.   While management  believes that  its
efforts to be responsive to the issues relating to the impact  of
its  operations  on  the  local  tribes  should  serve  to  avoid
disruptions  of   mining   operations,   social   and   political
instability in  the area  may, in  the  future, have  an  adverse
impact on PT-FI's mining operations.

     Reserves.   FCX  reserve amounts,  which are  determined  in
accordance  with  established   mining  industry  practices   and
standards, are estimates  only.   PT-FI's mines,  whether in  the
production or development stages,  may not conform to  geological
concepts or other expectations, so that  the volume and grade  of
reserves recovered and  the rates of  production may  be more  or
less than anticipated.  Because ore bodies do not contain uniform
grades of minerals,  ore recovery rates  will vary  from time  to
time, resulting in  variations in volumes  of minerals sold  from
period to period.  Further, market price fluctuations in  copper,
gold and, to a  lesser extent, silver,  and changes in  operating
and capital costs may render  certain ore reserves uneconomic  to
develop.   No  assurance  can be  given  that  FCX's  exploration
programs will result in the discovery of commercially exploitable
mineral deposits.

     Environmental  and Government  Regulation.    The  Company's
exploration  and  mining   activities  in   Irian  Jaya   involve
significant engineering and environmental challenges that  relate
primarily to the location of the mine in remote, rugged highlands
and the disposition  of tailings through  discharge into a  river
and a controlled deposition area near  the sea.  The Company  has
sought to preserve  and protect the  environment in  its area  of
operations.  The Company has expended significant resources, both
financial  and   managerial,   to   comply   with   environmental
regulations  and   permitting  and   approval  requirements   and
anticipates that it will continue to do so in the future.   There
can  be  no  assurance  that  additional  significant  costs  and
liabilities will not  be incurred in  order to  comply with  such
current and future regulations.

     Foreign Currency Exchange Risk.   FCX conducts the  majority
of its operations  in Indonesia  and Spain  where its  functional
currencies  are  U.S.  dollars.    All  of  FCX's  revenues   are
denominated in U.S. dollars; however, some costs are  denominated
in either Indonesian  rupiah or Spanish  pesetas.  FCX's  results
are adversely affected when the U.S. dollar weakens against these
foreign currencies and positively  affected when the U.S.  dollar
strengthens against these foreign currencies. 

     Holding  Company Structure.    Because FCX  is  primarily  a
holding company,  conducting business  through its  subsidiaries,
its  ability  to  meet  its  financial  obligations  and  to  pay
dividends on its preferred  and common stock  will depend on  the
earnings and cash flow of its subsidiaries and the ability of its
subsidiaries to  pay  dividends  and  to  advance  funds  to  the
Company.   Under  certain circumstances,  contractual  and  legal
restrictions, as well  as the financial  condition and  operating
requirements of PT-FI and the Company's other subsidiaries, could
limit the Company's ability to obtain cash from its  subsidiaries
for the purpose of  meeting its debt  service obligations and  to
pay dividends.  Any  right of the Company  to participate in  any
distribution of the  assets of PT-FI  and its other  subsidiaries
upon the liquidation, reorganization or insolvency thereof would,
with certain exceptions,  be subject to  the claims of  creditors
(including trade creditors) and  preferred stockholders (if  any)
of such subsidiaries.

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings.

     Tom Beanal v. Freeport-McMoRan Inc.  and  Freeport-McMoRan         
Copper & Gold  Inc., Civ. No.  96-1474 (E.D. La.  filed Apr.  29,
1996).  In March 1998, the  U. S. District Court for the  Eastern
District of Louisiana  dismissed with  prejudice the  plaintiff's
third amended  complaint.   The  court  held that  the  plaintiff
failed to plead  facts underlying his  claims against  FCX.   The
plaintiff has  appealed  the  court's decision.    The  plaintiff
alleges   environmental,   human   rights   and   social/cultural
violations in Indonesia and seeks $6 billion in monetary  damages
and other equitable  relief.  FCX  will continue  to defend  this
action vigorously.

     Yosefa Alomang  v. Freeport-McMoRan  Inc.  and   Freeport-               
McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc., Civ. No. 96-9962 (Orleans Civ.  Dist.
Ct.  La.  filed   June  19,   1996).     The  plaintiff   alleges
substantially similar violations as  those alleged in the  Beanal
suit and seeks unspecified  monetary damages and other  equitable
relief.  In February 1997, the Civil District Court of the Parish
of Orleans,  State of  Louisiana dismissed  this purported  class
action for  lack  of  subject  matter  jurisdiction  because  the
alleged conduct  and damages  occurred in  Indonesia.   In  March
1998, the Louisiana Fourth Circuit  Court of Appeal reversed  the
trial  court's   dismissal   and  found   that   subject   matter
jurisdiction existed over some claims.  FCX is seeking review  of
the Fourth Circuit's opinion, and otherwise has additional  legal
defenses to the action it will pursue upon any remand.  FCX  will
continue to defend this action vigorously.

[Page] 10

     In addition to  the foregoing proceedings,  FCX may be  from
time to time involved in various legal proceedings of a character
normally incident  to  the  ordinary course  of  its  business.  
Management believes that potential  liability in any  proceedings
would not  have  a  material  adverse  effect  on  the  financial
condition or  results  of  operations  of  FCX.    FCX  maintains
liability  insurance  to  cover  some,  but  not  all,  potential
liabilities normally  incident  to  the ordinary  course  of  its
business as well  as other  insurance coverage  customary in  its
business, with coverage limits as management deems prudent.

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.

     Not applicable. 

Executive Officers of the Registrant.

     Certain information as of March 9, 1998 about the  executive
officers of FCX, including their position or office with FCX, PT-
FI and  Atlantic,  is  set  forth  in  the  following  table  and
accompanying text:

             Name          Age        Position or Office
             ----          ---        ------------------
     Richard C. Adkerson    51       President,   Chief   Operating
                                     Officer and Chief Financial Officer
                                     of FCX.    Director  and  Executive
                                     Vice President of PT-FI. 

     Michael J. Arnold      45       Senior Vice President  of FCX.

     W. Russell King        48       Senior Vice President  of FCX.

     Adrianto Machribie     56       President Director of PT-FI.

     John A. Macken         46       Senior Vice President of  FCX.
                                     Executive Vice President of PT-FI.

     James R. Moffett       59       Director, Chairman of the
                                     Board and  Chief Executive  Officer
                                     of FCX.  President Commissioner  of
                                     PT-FI.

     Craig E. Saporito      46       Senior Vice President and Treasurer
                                     of FCX.  Treasurer of PT-FI.

     Steven D. Van Nort     58       Senior Vice President of  FCX.
                                     Executive Vice President of PT-FI.

     Robert M. Wohleber     47       Senior Vice President of  FCX.
                                     Senior Vice President of PT-FI. 
                                     Chairman of Atlantic

     Richard C. Adkerson has served as FCX's President and  Chief
Operating Officer since  April 1997 and  Chief Financial  Officer
since July 1995.  Mr. Adkerson  is also Executive Vice  President
and a  director of  PT-FI, Co-Chairman  of  the Board  and  Chief
Executive Officer  of  McMoRan  Oil  &  Gas  Co.  ("MOXY"),  Vice
Chairman of the  Board of Freeport-McMoRan  Sulphur Inc.  ("FSC")
and Chairman  of the  Board and  Chief  Executive Officer  of  FM
Properties Inc. From July 1995 to April 1997, Mr. Adkerson served
as Executive Vice President of the Company and from February 1994
to July 1995, he served as Senior Vice President of the  Company.
 Mr. Adkerson served as Vice Chairman  of the Board of  Freeport-
McMoRan Inc. ("FTX")  from August 1995  to December  1997 and  as
Senior Vice President of FTX from May 1992 to August 1995.

     Michael J. Arnold has served as Senior Vice President of the
Company since November 1996.  From  July 1994  to November  1996,
Mr. Arnold was Vice President and Controller - Operations of  the
Company.  Mr. Arnold  also served as a  Senior Vice President  of
FTX from November 1996 until December 1997.  From October 1991 to
November  1996,  he  was  Vice  President  of  FTX,  serving   as
Controller - Operations from May 1993 to November 1996.

[Page] 11

     W. Russell King has served as  Senior Vice President of  the
Company since  July  1994.   Mr.  King  served as    Senior  Vice
President of FTX from November 1993 to December 1997 and as  Vice
President of FTX from October 1984 to November 1993.

     Adrianto Machribie has served as President Director of PT-FI
since March  1996.    From September  1992  to  March  1996,  Mr.
Machribie was a director and Executive Vice President of PT-FI.

     John A. Macken  has served  as FCX's  Senior Vice  President
since December 1997.  He is also Executive Vice President of  PT-
FI.  From  April 1996  to December 1997,  Mr. Macken  was a  Vice
President of FCX.   From  April 1995  to March  1996, Mr.  Macken
served as a director  and Executive Vice  President of PT-FI  and
from April 1993 to April 1995,  he served as a Vice President  of
PT-FI.

     James R. Moffett  has served as  Chairman of  the Board  and
Chief Executive Officer of  the Company since  July 1995 and  has
served as a director of the Company  since May 1992.  He is  also
President Commissioner  of PT-FI,  Co-Chairman  of the  Board  of
MOXY, Co-Chairman  of the  Board of  FSC and  a director  of  IMC
Global Inc.  Mr. Moffett served  as Chairman of the Board of  FTX
from May 1992 to December 1997  and as President of FTX from  May
1992 to May 1993.

     Craig E. Saporito  has served as  Senior Vice President  and
Treasurer of the Company  since November 1997.   Mr. Saporito  is
also Treasurer of PT-FI  and Vice President of  MOXY.  From  July
1994 to November 1997, Mr. Saporito  was a Vice President of  FCX
and from May 1988  to December 1997, he  was a Vice President  of
FTX.

     Steven D. Van Nort has served as FCX's Senior Vice President
since December 1997.  Mr. Van Nort also serves as Executive  Vice
President of PT-FI.   From March 1995 to  December 1997, Mr.  Van
Nort was a Vice President of FCX and from June 1992 to June 1997,
he served as a Senior Vice President of PT-FI.

     Robert M. Wohleber  has served as  Senior Vice President  of
the Company  since  November  1997.    He  is  also  Senior  Vice
President of PT-FI,  Chairman of Atlantic,  and President,  Chief
Executive Officer and  a director of  FSC.  He  served as a  Vice
President of the Company from July 1994 to November 1997, as Vice
President and Treasurer of the Company from July 1993 to May 1994
and as Treasurer  from August  1990 to  May 1993.   Mr.  Wohleber
served as Senior  Vice President and  Chief Financial Officer  of
FTX from November 1996 to December  1997.  He was Vice  President
of FTX from  June 1994 to  November 1996 and  Vice President  and
Treasurer of FTX from May 1992 to June 1994.



                                PART II


Item 5.    Market  for Registrant's  Common  Equity  and  Related
Stockholder Matters.

     The information set  forth under the  captions "FCX Class  A
Common Shares," "FCX  Class B  Common Shares"  and "Common  Share
Dividends," on  the inside  back cover  of the  Annual Report  is
incorporated herein by  reference.  As  of March  9, 1998,  there
were 14,602 and  9,498 holders  of record  of FCX's  Class A  and
Class B common stock, respectively.

Item 6.  Selected Financial Data. 

     The  information  set  forth  under  the  caption  "Selected
Financial and Operating Data," on page 14 of the Annual Report is
incorporated herein by reference.

     FCX's ratio of  earnings to fixed  charges for  each of  the
years 1993 through  1997, inclusive, was  3.6x, 7.5x, 5.9x,  4.5x
and 3.8x, respectively.   For this calculation, earnings  consist
of  income  from  continuing  operations  before  income   taxes,
minority interests  and fixed  charges.   Fixed  charges  include
interest and  that  portion  of  rent  deemed  representative  of
interest.  FCX's  ratio of earnings  to fixed charges,  preferred
stock dividends and minimum distributions  for each of the  years
1993 through  1997, inclusive,  was 1.2x,  2.1x, 3.0x,  2.6x  and
2.8x, respectively.   For this calculation,

[Page] 12

the preferred  stock
dividend requirements were  assumed to  be equal  to the  pre-tax
earnings  which  would  be   required  to  cover  such   dividend
requirements.  The  amount of such  pre-tax earnings required  to
cover preferred stock dividends was computed using tax rates  for
the applicable years.   "Minimum Distributions"  for purposes  of
calculating  this   ratio  consist   of  the   required   minimum
distribution for the Company's Class A Common Stock that  expired
May 1, 1993. 


Items 7.    and 7A.    Management's Discussion  and  Analysis  of
Financial Condition and  Results of  Operations and  Quantitative
and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.

     The information set  forth under  the caption  "Management's
Discussion and Analysis" on pages  15 through 22, inclusive,  25,
27 and 29, as well as the "Environmental & Social  Responsibility
Report" on pages 8  through 13, inclusive,  of the Annual  Report
are incorporated herein by reference.

Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

     The financial statements of FCX  appearing on pages 24,  26,
28 and 30, the  notes thereto appearing on  pages 31 through  45,
the report thereon of Arthur Andersen  LLP appearing on page  23,
and the report of management on page 23 of the Annual Report  are
incorporated herein by reference.

Item 9.    Changes  in  and  Disagreements  with  Accountants  on
Accounting and Financial Disclosure.

     Not applicable. 



                                PART III


Items 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.

     The information  set forth  under the  caption  "Information
About Nominees and Directors" of the Proxy Statement submitted to
the stockholders of  the registrant in  connection with its  1998
Annual Meeting to be held on  May 5, 1998 is incorporated  herein
by reference.

Items 11.  Executive Compensation.

     The information  set  forth  under  the  captions  "Director
Compensation" and "Executive Officer  Compensation" of the  Proxy
Statement submitted  to the  stockholders  of the  registrant  in
connection with its 1998 Annual Meeting to be held on May 5, 1998
is incorporated herein by reference.

Items 12.   Security Ownership of  Certain Beneficial Owners  and
Management.

     The  information  set  forth   under  the  captions   "Stock
Ownership  of  Directors  and  Executive  Officers"  and   "Stock
Ownership of Certain  Beneficial Owners" of  the Proxy  Statement
submitted to  the stockholders  of the  registrant in  connection
with its  1998  Annual Meeting  to  be held  on  May 5,  1998  is
incorporated herein by reference.

Items 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.

     The  information  set  forth  under  the  caption   "Certain
Transactions"  of   the   Proxy  Statement   submitted   to   the
stockholders of the registrant in connection with its 1998 Annual
Meeting to  be held  on May  5, 1998  is incorporated  herein  by
reference.

[Page] 13

                                PART IV


Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports  on
Form 8-K.

(a)(1).   Financial Statements. 

          Reference is made to the Index to Financial  Statements
          appearing on page F-1 hereof.

(a)(2).   Financial Statement Schedules.

          Reference is made to the Index to Financial  Statements
          appearing on page F-1 hereof.

(a)(3).   Exhibits. 

          Reference is  made to  the Exhibit  Index beginning  on
          page E-1 hereof.

(b).      Reports on Form 8-K.

          During the last quarter of  the period covered by  this
          report, FCX filed no reports on Forms 8-K.

[Page] 14

                              SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report
to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized, on March 30, 1998.

                                   Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.



                                   By:  /s/ James R. Moffett     
                                        --------------------
                                        James R. Moffett
                                        Chairman of the Board and
                                        Chief Executive Officer


     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following
persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities
indicated on March 30, 1998.


Signatures



                            Chairman of the Board, ChiefExecutive Officer and
 /s/ James R. Moffett                Director (PrincipalExecutive Officer)
     James R. Moffett

                            President, Chief Operating Officer and Chief
            *               Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer)
     Richard C. Adkerson

                            Vice President and Controller- Financial Reporting
            *               (Principal Accounting Officer)
     C. Donald Whitmire


              
               
            *                Director
     Robert W. Bruce III


            *                Director
     Leon A. Davis

               
            *                Director
     Robert A. Day

               
            *                 Director
     William B. Harrison, Jr.

               
            *                 Director
     J. Bennett Johnston


[Page] S-1

            *                 Director
     Henry A. Kissinger

               
            *                 Director
     Bobby Lee Lackey

               
            *                 Director
     Rene L. Latiolais

               
             *                Director
    Jonathan C. A. Leslie

               
             *                Director
    Gabrielle K. McDonald


             *                Director
    George A. Mealey

               
             *                Director
    George Putnam

               
             *                Director
    B. M. Rankin


             *                Director
    J. Taylor Wharton



*By: /s/ James R. Moffett               
     -------------------
     James R. Moffett
     Attorney-in-Fact


[Page] S-2
               FREEPORT-McMoRan COPPER & GOLD INC.
                   INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     The financial statements of FCX appearing on pages 24, 26, 28,
and 30, the notes thereto appearing on pages 31 through 45
inclusive, and the report thereon of Arthur Andersen LLP appearing
on page 23 of FCX's 1997 Annual Report to stockholders are
incorporated by reference.

     The financial statements in the schedule listed below should be
read in conjunction with such financial statements contained in
FCX's 1997 Annual Report to stockholders.

                                                       Page
Report of Independent Public Accountants               F-1
III-Condensed Financial Information of Registrant      F-2
VIII-Valuation and Qualifying Accounts                 F-4


     Schedules other than the ones listed above have been omitted
since they are either not required, not applicable or the required
information is included in the financial statements or notes
thereto.



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

     We have audited, in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards, the financial statements as of December 31, 1997 and 1996
and for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
1997 included in Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.'s Annual Report
to stockholders incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K, and
have issued our report thereon dated January 20, 1998.  Our audits
were made for the purpose of forming an opinion on those statements
taken as a whole.  The schedule listed in the index above is the
responsibility of the Company's management and is presented for
purposes of complying with the Securities and Exchange Commission's
rules and is not part of the basic financial statements.  This
schedule has been subjected to the auditing procedures applied in
the audits of the basic financial statements and, in our opinion,
fairly states in all material respects the financial data required
to be set forth therein in relation to the basic financial
statements taken as a whole.



                                  Arthur Andersen LLP

New Orleans, Louisiana,
  January 20, 1998


[Page] F-1



The footnotes contained in FCX's 1997 Annual Report to stockholders
are an integral part of these statements.

[Page] F-2


The footnotes contained in FCX's 1997 Annual Report to stockholders
are an integral part of these statements.

[Page]  F-3



[Page] F-4

               Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.

                          EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit
Number



2.1  Agreement, dated as of May 2, 1995 by and between  Freeport-
     McMoRan Inc. ("FTX")  and FCX and  The RTZ Corporation  PLC,
     RTZ Indonesia Limited, and RTZ America, Inc. (the "Rio Tinto
     Agreement").  Incorporated  by reference to  Exhibit 2.1  to
     the Current Report on  Form 8-K of FTX  dated as of May  26,
     1995.

2.2  Amendment dated May  31, 1995  to the  Rio Tinto  Agreement.
     Incorporated by reference  to Exhibit 2.1  to the  Quarterly
     Report on Form 10-Q  of FTX for the  quarter ended June  30,
     1995.

2.3  Distribution Agreement dated as of July 5, 1995 between  FTX
     and FCX.  Incorporated  by reference to  Exhibit 2.1 to  the
     Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q  of FTX for the quarter  ended
     September  30, 1995  (the "FTX 1995  Third Quarter Form  10-
     Q").

3.1  Composite copy of the  Certificate of Incorporation of  FCX.
     Incorporated by reference  to Exhibit 3.1  to the  Quarterly
     Report on Form 10-Q  of FCX for the  quarter ended June  30,
     1995 (the "FCX 1995 Second Quarter Form 10-Q").

3.2  By-Laws of FCX.  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to
     the Annual Report on  Form 10-K of FCX  for the fiscal  year
     ended December 31, 1996 (the "FCX 1996 Form 10-K").

4.1  Certificate  of  Designations  of  the  Step-Up  Convertible
     Preferred Stock  of  FCX.    Incorporated  by  reference  to
     Exhibit 4.2 to the FCX 1995 Second Quarter Form 10-Q.

4.2  Deposit Agreement  dated  as  of July  1,  1993  among  FCX,
     ChaseMellon Shareholder Services, L.L.C. ("ChaseMellon"), as
     Depositary, and  holders  of depositary  receipts  ("Step-Up
     Depositary Receipts") evidencing certain Depositary  Shares,
     each of which,  in turn, represents  0.05 shares of  Step-Up
     Convertible Preferred Stock.   Incorporated by reference  to
     Exhibit 4.5 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of FCX for the
     fiscal year ended December 31, 1993 (the "FCX 1993 Form  10-
     K").

4.3  Form  of  Step-Up  Depositary  Receipt.    Incorporated   by
     reference to Exhibit 4.6 to the FCX 1993 Form 10-K.

4.4  Certificate  of   Designations   of   the   Gold-Denominated
     Preferred Stock  of  FCX.    Incorporated  by  reference  to
     Exhibit 4.3 to the FCX 1995 Second Quarter Form 10-Q.

4.5  Deposit Agreement dated  as of  August 12,  1993 among  FCX,
     ChaseMellon,  as  Depositary,  and  holders  of   depositary
     receipts ("Gold-Denominated Depositary Receipts") evidencing
     certain  Depositary  Shares,   each  of   which,  in   turn,
     represents 0.05 shares of Gold-Denominated Preferred  Stock.
     Incorporated by reference  to Exhibit  4.8 to  the FCX  1993
     Form 10-K.

4.6  Form of Gold-Denominated  Depositary Receipt.   Incorporated
     by reference to Exhibit 4.9 to the FCX 1993 Form 10-K.

4.7  Certificate  of   Designations   of   the   Gold-Denominated
     Preferred Stock, Series II (the "Gold-Denominated  Preferred
     Stock II") of FCX.  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4
     to the FCX 1995 Second Quarter Form 10-Q.

[Page] E-1

4.8  Deposit Agreement dated as of  January 15, 1994, among  FCX,
     ChaseMellon,  as  Depositary,  and  holders  of   depositary
     receipts   ("Gold-Denominated   II   Depositary   Receipts")
     evidencing certain  Depositary  Shares, each  of  which,  in
     turn, represents 0.05  shares of Gold-Denominated  Preferred
     Stock II.  Incorporated by reference  to Exhibit 4.2 to  the
     Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of  FCX for the quarter  ended
     March 31, 1994 (the "FCX 1994 First Quarter Form 10-Q").

4.9  Form   of    Gold-Denominated   II    Depositary    Receipt.
     Incorporated by reference  to Exhibit  4.3 to  the FCX  1994
     First Quarter Form 10-Q.

4.10 Certificate  of  Designations   of  the   Silver-Denominated
     Preferred Stock  of  FCX.     Incorporated by  reference  to
     Exhibit 4.5 to the FCX 1995 Second Quarter Form 10-Q.

4.11 Deposit Agreement  dated  as of  July  25, 1994  among  FCX,
     ChaseMellon,  as  Depositary,  and  holders  of   depositary
     receipts    ("Silver-Denominated    Depositary    Receipts")
     evidencing certain  Depositary  Shares, each  of  which,  in
     turn,  initially   represents   0.025  shares   of   Silver-
     Denominated Preferred Stock.   Incorporated by reference  to
     Exhibit 4.2 to the July 15, 1994 Form 8-A.

4.12 Form of Silver-Denominated Depositary Receipt.  Incorporated
     by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the July 15, 1994, Form 8-A.

4.13 $550 million Composite Restated Credit Agreement dated as of
     July 17, 1995  (the "PT-FI Credit  Agreement") among  PT-FI,
     FCX, the  several financial  institutions that  are  parties
     thereto, First Trust of  New York, National Association,  as
     PT-FI Trustee, Chemical  Bank, as  administrative agent  and
     FCX collateral agent, and The Chase Manhattan Bank (National
     Association),  as  documentary   agent.    Incorporated   by
     reference to Exhibit  4.16 to the  Annual Report  of FCX  on
     Form 10-K for  the year ended  December 31,  1995 (the  "FCX
     1995 Form 10-K").

4.14 Amendment dated  as of  July 15,  1996 to  the PT-FI  Credit
     Agreement  among   PT-FI,   FCX,   the   several   financial
     institutions that are  parties thereto, First  Trust of  New
     York, National Association, as PT-FI Trustee, Chemical Bank,
     as administrative agent  and FCX collateral  agent, and  The
     Chase Manhattan Bank (National Association), as  documentary
     agent.   Incorporated by  reference to  Exhibit 4.2  to  the
     Quarterly Report of FCX on Form  10-Q for the quarter  ended
     September 30, 1996 (the "FCX 1996 Third Quarter Form 10-Q").

4.15 Amendment dated as of  October 9, 1996  to the PT-FI  Credit
     Agreement  among   PT-FI,   FCX,   the   several   financial
     institutions that are  parties thereto, First  Trust of  New
     York, National  Association,  as PT-FI  Trustee,  The  Chase
     Manhattan Bank (formerly  Chemical Bank), as  administrative
     agent, security agent and JAA security agent, and The  Chase
     Manhattan Bank  (as successor  to The  Chase Manhattan  Bank
     (National Association)), as documentary agent.  Incorporated
     by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to  the Current Report on  Form
     8-K of  FCX dated  and filed  November  13, 1996  (the  "FCX
     November 13, 1996 Form 8-K").

4.16 Amendment dated  as of  March 7,  1997 to  the PT-FI  Credit
     Agreement  among   PT-FI,   FCX,   the   several   financial
     institutions that are  parties thereto, First  Trust of  New
     York, National  Association,  as PT-FI  Trustee,  The  Chase
     Manhattan Bank, as administrative agent, security agent  and
     JAA  security  agent,  and  The  Chase  Manhattan  Bank,  as
     documentary agent.

4.17 Amendment dated  as of  July 24,  1997 to  the PT-FI  Credit
     Agreement  among   PT-FI,   FCX,   the   several   financial
     institutions that are  parties thereto, First  Trust of  New
     York, National   Association,  as PT-FI  Trustee, The  Chase
     Manhattan Bank, as administrative agent, security agent  and
     JAA  security  agent,  and  The  Chase  Manhattan  Bank,  as
     documentary agent.

4.18 $200 million Credit Agreement dated as of June 30, 1995 (the
     "CDF") among PT-FI, FCX, the several financial  institutions
     that are parties thereto, First Trust of New York,  National
    
[Page] E-2

     Association,   as   PT-FI   Trustee,   Chemical   Bank,   as
     administrative agent  and FCX  collateral agent,  The  Chase
     Manhattan Bank (National Association), as documentary agent.
     Incorporated by reference  to Exhibit  4.2 to  the FCX  1995
     Third Quarter Form 10-Q.

4.19 Amendment dated as of July 15, 1996 to the CDF among  PT-FI,
     FCX, the  several financial  institutions that  are  parties
     thereto, First Trust of  New York, National Association,  as
     PT-FI Trustee, Chemical  Bank, as  administrative agent  and
     FCX collateral agent, and The Chase Manhattan Bank (National
     Association),  as  documentary   agent.    Incorporated   by
     reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the FCX 1996 Third Quarter  Form
     10-Q.

4.20 Amendment dated as of October 9,  1996 to the CDF among  PT-
     FI, FCX, the several financial institutions that are parties
     thereto, First Trust of  New York, National Association,  as
     PT-FI Trustee, The Chase  Manhattan Bank (formerly  Chemical
     Bank), as  administrative  agent,  security  agent  and  JAA
     security agent, and The  Chase Manhattan Bank (as  successor
     to The  Chase  Manhattan Bank  (National  Association)),  as
     documentary agent.   Incorporated  by reference  to  Exhibit
     10.1 to the FCX November 13, 1996 Form 8-K.

4.21 Amendment dated as of March 7, 1997 to the CDF among  PT-FI,
     FCX, the  several financial  institutions that  are  parties
     thereto, First Trust of  New York, National Association,  as
     PT-FI Trustee, The Chase  Manhattan Bank, as  administrative
     agent, security agent and JAA security agent, and The  Chase
     Manhattan Bank, as documentary agent.

4.22 Amendment dated as of July 24, 1997 to the CDF among  PT-FI,
     FCX, the  several financial  institutions that  are  parties
     thereto, First Trust of  New York, National Association,  as
     PT-FI Trustee, The Chase  Manhattan Bank, as  administrative
     agent, security agent and JAA security agent, and The  Chase
     Manhattan Bank, as documentary agent.

4.23 Senior Indenture dated as of November  15, 1996 from FCX  to
     The Chase  Manhattan  Bank,  as Trustee.    Incorporated  by
     reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the  Current Report on Form  8-K
     of FCX dated November 13, 1996 and filed November 15, 1996.

4.24 First Supplemental Indenture dated  as of November 18,  1996
     from FCX to The Chase Manhattan Bank, as Trustee,  providing
     for the issuance of the  Senior Notes and supplementing  the
     Senior Indenture dated  November 15, 1996  from FCX to  such
     Trustee, providing  for  the issuance  of  Debt  Securities.
     Incorporated by reference  to Exhibit 4.20  to the FCX  1996
     Form 10-K.

10.1 Contract  of  Work  dated  December  30,  1991  between  The
     Government  of  the   Republic  of   Indonesia  and   PT-FI.
     Incorporated by reference  to Exhibit 10.2  to the FCX  1995
     Form 10-K.

10.2 Contract  of  Work  dated   August  15,  1994  between   The
     Government of  the  Republic  of  Indonesia  and  P.T.  IRJA
     Eastern Minerals Corporation.  Incorporated by reference  to
     Exhibit 10.2 to the FCX 1995 Form 10-K.

10.3 Agreement dated as of October 11, 1996 to Amend and  Restate
     Trust Agreement among PT-FI,  FCX, the RTZ Corporation  PLC,
     P.T. RTZ-CRA Indonesia, RTZ  Indonesian Finance Limited  and
     First Trust of New York, National Association, and The Chase
     Manhattan Bank, as Administrative Agent, JAA Security  Agent
     and Security Agent.   Incorporated by  reference to  Exhibit
     10.3 to the FCX November 13, 1996 Form 8-K.

10.4 Credit Agreement dated  October 11, 1996  between PT-FI  and
     RTZ Indonesian Finance Limited.   Incorporated by  reference
     to Exhibit 10.4 to the FCX November 13, 1996 Form 8-K.

[Page] E-3

10.5 Participation Agreement dated as of October 11, 1996 between
     PT-FI and P.T. RTZ-CRA Indonesia  with respect to a  certain
     contract of work.  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5
     to the FCX November 13, 1996 Form 8-K.

10.6 Second Amended and Restated Joint Venture and  Shareholders'
     Agreement dated  as of  December 11,  1996 among  Mitsubishi
     Materials Corporation,  Nippon  Mining and  Metals  Company,
     Limited and  PT-FI.   Incorporated by  reference to  Exhibit
     10.3 of the FCX 1996 Form 10-K.

10.7 Put and  Guaranty  Agreement  dated as  of  March  21,  1997
     between FCX and The Chase Manhattan Bank.

10.8 Subordinated Loan  Agreement  dated  as of  March  21,  1997
     between FCX and PT Nusamba Mineral Industri.

10.9 Amended and  Restated  Power  Sales Agreement  dated  as  of
     December 18, 1997 between PT-FI and P.T. Puncakjaya Power.

10.10 Option, Mandatory Purchase and  Right of First  Refusal
     Agreement dated as  of December 19,  1997 among PT-FI,  P.T.
     Puncakjaya Power, Duke  Irian Jaya,  Inc., Westcoast  Power,
     Inc. and P.T. Prasarana Nusantara Jaya.

     Executive  Compensation  Plans  and  Arrangements  (Exhibits
10.11 through 10.28)

10.11 Annual Incentive Plan of FCX. Incorporated by reference
     to Exhibit 10.8 to the FCX 1996 Form 10-K.

10.12  1995  Long-Term  Performance  Incentive  Plan  of  FCX.
     Incorporated by reference  to Exhibit 10.9  to the FCX  1996
     Form 10-K.

10.13 FCX Performance Incentive Awards Program.  Incorporated
     by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to the FCX 1995 Form 10-K.

10.14 FCX  President's  Award   Program.    Incorporated   by
     reference to Exhibit 10.8 to the FCX 1995 Form 10-K.

10.15 FCX Adjusted Stock Award Plan, as amended.

10.16 FCX 1995 Stock Option Plan.  Incorporated by  reference
     to Exhibit 10.13 to the FCX 1996 Form 10-K.

10.17 FCX 1995 Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee  Directors,
as amended.

10.18 Financial Counseling  and  Tax Return  Preparation  and
     Certification Program of FCX.  Incorporated by reference  to
     Exhibit 10.12 to the FCX 1995 Form 10-K.

10.19 FM  Services  Company   Performance  Incentive   Awards
     Program.  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.13 to  the
     FCX 1995 Form 10-K.

10.20 FM Services Company Financial Counseling and Tax Return
     Preparation and  Certification  Program.    Incorporated  by
     reference to Exhibit 10.14 to the FCX 1995 Form 10-K.

10.21 Consulting Agreement  dated  as of  December  22,  1988
     between  FTX  and  Kissinger  Associates,  Inc.  ("Kissinger
     Associates").

[Page] E-4

10.22 Letter Agreement dated May 1, 1989 between FTX and Kent
     Associates, Inc. ("Kent Associates," predecessor in interest
     to Kissinger Associates).

10.23 Letter Agreement dated January 27, 1997 among Kissinger
     Associates, Kent Associates, FTX, FCX and FMS.  Incorporated
     by reference to Exhibit 10.20 to the FCX 1996 Form 10-K.

10.24 Agreement for Consulting Services between FTX and B. M.
     Rankin, Jr. effective as of January 1, 1991 (assigned to FMS
     as of January 1, 1996).

10.25 Supplemental Agreement between FMS and B. M. Rankin Jr.
     dated December 15, 1997.

10.26 Letter Agreement dated March 8, 1996 between George  A.
     Mealey and FCX.  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit  10.22
     of the FCX 1996 Form 10-K.

10.27 Letter  Agreement  effective  as  of  January  4,  1997
     between  Senator   J.  Bennett   Johnston,  Jr.   and   FCX.
     Incorporated by reference to Exhibit  10.25 of the FCX  1996
     Form 10-K.

10.28 Letter Agreement dated  December 22,  1997 between  FMS
     and Rene L. Latiolais.

12.1 FCX Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.

13.1 Those portions of the 1997 Annual Report to stockholders  of
     FCX that are incorporated herein by reference.

21.1 Subsidiaries of FCX.

23.1 Consent of Arthur Andersen LLP.

23.2 Consent of Independent Mining Consultants, Inc.

24.1 Certified resolution  of  the  Board  of  Directors  of  FCX
     authorizing this  report  to  be signed  on  behalf  of  any
     officer or director pursuant to a Power of Attorney.

24.2 Powers of Attorney  pursuant to which  this report has  been
     signed on behalf of certain officers and directors of FCX.

27.1 FCX Financial Data Schedule.

27.2 FCX Restated Financial Data Schedule. 

[Page]  E-5


