Item 1A.Risk Factors

The airline industry is particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions; an increase in unfavorable economic conditions or continued economic uncertainty could negatively affect the
Company’s results of operations and could require the Company to adjust its business strategies.

The airline
industry, which is subject to relatively high fixed costs and highly variable and unpredictable demand, is particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions. Unfavorable U.S. economic conditions have historically driven changes in travel
patterns and have resulted in reduced spending for both leisure and business travel. For some consumers, leisure travel is a discretionary expense, and shorthaul travelers, in particular, have the option to replace air travel with surface travel.
Businesses are able to forego air travel by using communication alternatives such as videoconferencing and the Internet or may be more likely to purchase less expensive tickets to reduce costs, which can result in a decrease in average revenue per
seat. Unfavorable economic conditions also hamper the ability of airlines to raise fares to counteract increased fuel, labor, and other costs. The Company continues to face economic uncertainty, and the weakened state of the U.S. and global economy
could continue for an extended period of time. Continued unfavorable or even uncertain economic conditions could negatively affect the Company’s results of operations and could cause the Company to adjust its business strategies.

The Company’s business has been significantly impacted by high and/or volatile fuel prices; therefore, the Company’s
strategic plans and future profitability are likely to be impacted by the Company’s ability to effectively address fuel prices.

Fuel prices continue to present one of the Company’s most significant challenges, as (i) the cost of fuel has been at historically high levels over the last several years and has been both
volatile and unpredictable, and (ii) airlines are inherently dependent upon energy to operate; therefore, even a small change in market fuel prices can significantly affect profitability. Fuel prices are volatile and unpredictable, in part,
because of many external factors that are beyond the Company’s control. For example, fuel prices can be impacted by political and economic factors, such as (i) dependency on foreign imports of crude oil and the potential for hostilities or
other conflicts in oil producing areas; (ii) limited refining capacity; (iii) worldwide demand for fuel, particularly in developing countries, which has resulted in inflated energy prices; (iv) changes in governmental policies on fuel
production,







transportation, taxes, and marketing; and (v) changes in exchange rates. The Company’s ability to react to fuel price volatility can also be affected by factors outside of its control.
For example, the Company’s profitability is affected in part by Southwest’s and AirTran’s ability to increase fares in reaction to fuel price increases; however, fare increases are difficult to implement in difficult economic
environments when low fares are often used to stimulate traffic. The ability to increase fares can also be limited by factors such as the historical low-fare reputation of both Southwest and AirTran, the portion of their Customer base that purchases
travel for leisure purposes, the competitive nature of the airline industry generally, and the risk that higher fares will drive a decrease in demand.

Jet fuel and oil consumed for 2012 and 2011 represented approximately 37 percent and 38 percent of the Company’s operating expenses, respectively, and constituted the largest expense incurred by the
Company in both years. As a result, the price of fuel has impacted, and could continue to impact, the timing and nature of the Company’s growth plans and strategic initiatives.

i.e.,

The Company has used financial derivative instruments for both shortterm and longterm time frames, and primarily uses a mixture of
purchased call options, collar structures (which include both a purchased call option and a sold put option), call spreads (which include a purchased call option and a sold call option) and fixed price swap agreements in its portfolio. Although the
use of collar structures and swap agreements can reduce the overall cost of hedging, these instruments carry more risk than purchased call options in that the Company could end up in a liability position when the collar structure or swap agreement
settles. With the use of purchased call options and call spreads, the Company cannot be in a liability position at settlement, but may be exposed to price changes beyond a certain market price.

The Company’s low-cost structure has historically been one of its primary competitive advantages, and many factors have
affected and could continue to affect the Company’s ability to control its costs.

The Company’s low-cost
structure has historically been one of its primary competitive advantages, as it has enabled Southwest to historically offer low fares, drive traffic volume, and grow market share. The Company’s low-cost structure has become increasingly
important as a result of the Company’s decision to control capacity growth in response to high fuel prices and uncertain economic conditions. While the Company has in the past been able to cover increasing costs through growth, the combination
of capacity control and increasing costs has contributed to an increase in the Company’s costs per available seat mile.







As discussed above under “Business-Insurance,” the Company carries insurance of types customary in the airline industry and is also provided supplemental, first-party, war-risk insurance
coverage by the federal government at substantially lower premiums than prevailing commercial rates. If the supplemental coverage is not extended, the Company could incur substantially higher insurance costs. In addition, an accident or other
incident involving Southwest or AirTran aircraft could result in costs in excess of its related insurance coverage, which costs could be substantial. Any aircraft accident or other incident, even if fully insured, could also have a material adverse
effect on the public’s perception of the Company.

The Company is increasingly dependent on technology to operate its business and continues to implement substantial changes to its
information systems; any failure or disruption in the Company’s information systems could materially adversely affect its operations.

The Company is increasingly dependent on the use of complex technology and systems to run its ongoing operations. In addition, technology is critical to the success of the Company’s strategic
initiatives. In recent years the Company has been committed to technology improvements to support its ongoing operations and initiatives.







For example, the Company has implemented a new TRAX maintenance inventory management system and, as a result, is currently operating three maintenance inventory management systems. Concurrently
operating three maintenance inventory management systems involves inherent risks, including certain operational and compliance risks; however, the Company believes it has designed and implemented controls to detect and mitigate such risks during
this conversion process. The Company’s current plan is to transition its existing Southwest and AirTran systems over to the new TRAX system during 2013 and 2014. Additionally, the Company has completed the implementation of a new SAP Enterprise
Resource Planning application, which has replaced several of the Company’s back office legacy systems, such as the general ledger, accounts payable, accounts receivable, payroll, benefits, cash management, and fixed asset systems.

The Company has also invested in significant technology changes to support other initiatives such as Southwest’s All-New Rapid
Rewards frequent flyer program, introduction of the Boeing 737-800 to its fleet, enhanced southwest.com website, WiFi implementation, and live television connectivity. In addition, the Company needs new reservation system technology to support
international itineraries, and has begun the international reservation system construction. The Company intends to continue to devote significant technology resources to implement connecting capabilities between the Southwest and AirTran
reservations systems, to introduce the first phase of a new revenue management system, and to implement a new reservation system that will allow the Company to add international destinations and improve revenue management and Customer Service
functionality.

Integration of complex systems and technology presents significant challenges in terms of costs, human
resources, and development of effective internal controls. Integration also presents the risk of operational or security inadequacy or interruption, which could materially affect the Company’s ability to effectively operate its business. The
Company is also reliant upon third party performance for timely and effective completion of many of its technology initiatives.

In the ordinary course of business, the Company’s systems will continue to require modification and refinements to address growth and
changing business requirements, including requirements related to international operations. In addition, the Company’s systems may require modification to enable the Company to comply with changing regulatory requirements. For example, the
Company was required to invest in the redesign of the southwest.com and airtran.com websites in order to comply with the DOT’s full-fare advertising rule that went into effect in January 2012. Modifications and refinements to the Company’s
systems may be expensive to implement and may divert management’s attention from other key initiatives. In addition, the Company’s operations could be adversely affected, or it could face imposition of regulatory penalties, if it is unable
to timely or effectively modify its systems as necessary.

The Company may occasionally experience system interruptions and
delays that make its websites and services unavailable or slow to respond, which could prevent the Company from efficiently processing Customer transactions or providing services. This in turn could reduce the Company’s operating revenues and
the attractiveness of its services. The Company’s computer and communications systems and operations could be damaged or interrupted by catastrophic events such as fires, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes and hurricanes, power loss, computer and
telecommunications failures, acts of war or terrorism, computer viruses, security breaches, and similar events or disruptions. Any of these events could cause system interruptions, delays, and loss of critical data, and could prevent the Company
from processing Customer transactions or providing services, which could make the Company’s business and services less attractive and subject the Company to liability. Any of these events could damage the Company’s reputation and be
expensive to remedy.

The Company’s business is labor intensive; therefore, the Company would be adversely affected
if it were unable to maintain satisfactory relations with its Employees or its Employees’ Representatives or if the Company were unable to employ sufficient numbers of qualified Employees to maintain its operations.

The airline business is labor intensive. Salaries, wages, and benefits represented approximately 29 percent of the Company’s
operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2012. In addition, as of December 31,







2012, approximately 83 percent of the Company’s Employees (including AirTran Employees) were represented for collective bargaining purposes by labor unions, making the Company particularly
exposed in the event of labor-related job actions. Employment-related issues that may impact the Company’s results of operations, some of which are negotiated items, include hiring/retention rates, pay rates, outsourcing costs, work rules, and
health care costs. The Company has historically maintained positive relationships with its Employees and its Employees’ Representatives. However, as indicated above under “Business-Employees,” a vast majority of Southwest’s
unionized Employees, including those represented by Southwest’s five largest unions, have labor agreements that are either currently in negotiations or become amendable in 2013, which could further impact the Company’s labor costs.
Increasing labor costs, whether or not combined with curtailed growth, could negatively impact the Company’s competitive position.

The Company’s success also depends on its ability to attract and retain skilled personnel. Competition for skilled personnel may intensify if overall industry capacity increases and/or if high levels
of current personnel reach retirement age. The Company may be required to increase existing levels of compensation to retain or supplement its skilled workforce. The inability to recruit and retain skilled personnel or the unexpected loss of key
skilled personnel may adversely affect the Company’s operations.

The Company may be unable to successfully complete
the integration of AirTran’s business and realize the anticipated benefits of its acquisition of AirTran. In addition, delays in integration could cause anticipated synergies to take longer than anticipated to realize.

Risk factors associated with the Company’s acquisition and integration of AirTran are discussed below under “Risk Factors
Related to the Company’s Acquisition and Integration of AirTran.”

The Company is currently dependent on single
aircraft and engine suppliers, as well as single suppliers of certain other parts; therefore, the Company would be materially adversely affected if it were unable to obtain additional equipment or support from any of these suppliers or in the event
of a mechanical or regulatory issue associated with their equipment.

Any failure of the Company to maintain the security of certain Customer-related information could result in damage to the
Company’s reputation and could be costly to remediate.

The Company must receive information related to its
Customers in order to run its business, and the Company’s online operations depend upon the secure transmission of information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments. This information is subject to the risk of
intrusion,







tampering, and theft. Although the Company maintains systems to prevent this from occurring, these systems require ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change, and security could be
compromised, confidential information could be misappropriated, or system disruptions could occur. The Company must also provide certain confidential, proprietary, and personal information to third parties in the ordinary course of its business.
While the Company seeks to obtain assurances that these third parties will protect this information, there is a risk the confidentiality of data held by third parties could be breached. A compromise of the Company’s security systems could
adversely affect the Company’s reputation and disrupt its operations and could also result in litigation against the Company or the imposition of penalties. In addition, it could be costly to remediate. Although the Company has not experienced
cyber incidents that are individually, or in the aggregate, material, the Company has experienced cyber attacks in the past, which have thus far been mitigated by preventive and detective measures put in place by the Company.

The Company’s results of operations could be adversely impacted if it is unable to grow or to timely and effectively implement
its revenue and other initiatives.

Instability of credit, capital, and
energy markets can result in pressure on the Company’s credit ratings and can also negatively affect the Company’s ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms and the Company’s liquidity generally.

During 2009, the Company’s credit ratings were pressured by weak industry revenue and an extraordinarily volatile fuel price
environment. During 2011, the Company’s credit ratings were pressured in connection with its acquisition of AirTran. While the Company’s credit rating is “investment grade,” factors such as future unfavorable economic conditions,
a significant decline in demand for air travel, or instability of the credit and capital markets could result in future pressure on credit ratings, which could negatively affect (i) the Company’s ability to obtain financing on acceptable
terms, (ii) the Company’s liquidity generally, and (iii) the availability and cost of insurance. A credit rating downgrade would subject the Company to credit rating triggers related to its credit card transaction processing
agreements, the pricing related to any funds drawn under its revolving credit facility, and some of its hedging counterparty agreements. The potential effect of credit rating downgrades is discussed in more detail below under “Quantitative and
Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.”

The airline industry has faced on-going security concerns and related
cost burdens; further threatened or actual terrorist attacks, or other hostilities, could significantly harm the airline industry and the Company’s operations.

Terrorist attacks and threatened attacks have from time to time materially adversely affected the demand for air travel and have also resulted in increased safety and security costs for the Company and
the airline industry generally. Safety measures create delays and inconveniences and can, in particular, reduce the







Company’s competitiveness against surface transportation for shorthaul routes. Additional terrorist attacks, even if not made directly on the airline industry, or the fear of such attacks or
other hostilities (including elevated national threat warnings or selective cancellation or redirection of flights due to terror threats) would likely have a further significant negative impact on the Company and the airline industry.

Airport capacity constraints and air traffic control inefficiencies could limit the Company’s growth; changes in or additional
governmental regulation could increase the Company’s operating costs or otherwise limit the Company’s ability to conduct business.

Almost all commercial service airports are owned and/or operated by units of local or state governments. Airlines are largely dependent on these governmental entities to provide adequate airport
facilities and capacity at an affordable cost. Similarly, the federal government singularly controls all U.S. airspace, and airlines are completely dependent on the FAA operating that airspace in a safe and efficient manner. The air traffic
control system, which is operated by the FAA, could continue to face airspace and/or airport congestion challenges in the future which could limit the Company’s opportunities for growth. As discussed above under “Business —
Regulation,” airlines are also subject to other extensive regulatory requirements. These requirements often impose substantial costs on airlines. The Company’s initiatives and results of operations could be negatively affected by changes
in law and future actions taken by domestic and foreign governmental agencies having jurisdiction over its operations, including, but not limited to:



•increases in airport rates and charges;



•limitations on airport gate capacity or use of other airport facilities;



•limitations on route authorities;



•actions and decisions that create difficulties in obtaining access at slot-controlled airports;



•actions and decisions that create difficulties in obtaining operating permits and approvals;



•changes to environmental regulations;



•new or increased taxes;



•changes to laws that affect the services that can be offered by airlines in particular markets and at particular airports;



•restrictions on competitive practices;



•changes in laws that increase costs for safety, security, compliance, or other Customer Service standards;



•changes in laws that may limit or regulate the Company’s ability to promote the Company’s business or fares, such as the DOT’s full-fare
advertising rule discussed above under “Business —Regulation”; and



•the adoption of more restrictive locally-imposed noise regulations.

Because expenses of a flight do not vary significantly with the number of passengers carried, a relatively small change in the number of
passengers can have a disproportionate effect on an airline’s operating and financial results. Therefore, any general reduction in airline passenger traffic as a result of any of the factors listed above could adversely affect the
Company’s results of operations. In addition, in instances where the airline industry shrinks, many airport operating costs are essentially unchanged and must be shared by the remaining operating carriers, which can therefore increase the
Company’s costs.







The airline industry is affected by many conditions that are beyond its control, which
can impact the Company’s business strategies.

In addition to the unpredictable economic conditions and fuel costs
discussed above, the Company, like the airline industry in general, is affected by conditions that are largely unforeseeable and outside of its control, including, among others:



•adverse weather and natural disasters;



•outbreaks of disease;



•changes in consumer preferences, perceptions, spending patterns, or demographic trends;



•actual or potential disruptions in the air traffic control system;



•changes in the competitive environment due to industry consolidation, industry bankruptcies, and other factors;



•air traffic congestion and other air traffic control issues; and



•actual or threatened war, terrorist attacks, and political instability.

The airline industry is intensely competitive.

As discussed in more detail above under “Business — Competition,” the airline industry is intensely competitive. The Company’s primary competitors include other major domestic
airlines, as well as regional and new entrant airlines, surface transportation, and alternatives to transportation such as videoconferencing and the Internet. The Company’s revenues are sensitive to the actions of other carriers with respect to
pricing, routes, frequent flyer programs, scheduling, capacity, Customer Service, comfort and amenities, cost structure, aircraft fleet, and codesharing and similar activities.

Risk Factors Related to the Company’s Acquisition and Integration of AirTran

The Company may be unable to effectively complete the integration of AirTran’s business and realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. In addition, delays in integration could cause
anticipated synergies to take longer to realize than currently anticipated.

The Company must devote significant
management attention and resources to integrating the business practices and operations of AirTran. Potential difficulties the Company may encounter as part of the integration process include the following:



•the inability to successfully combine the AirTran business with that of the Company in a manner that permits the Company to achieve anticipated net
synergies and other anticipated benefits of the acquisition;



•the inability to successfully maintain passenger unit revenues upon converting AirTran into the Southwest business model;



•the challenges currently associated with operating an aircraft type new to the Company, the Boeing 717;



•the challenges associated with an expanded or new presence in more congested airports and markets;



•the challenges associated with new international operations, including compliance with international laws;



•the challenges associated with integrating complex systems, technology, aircraft fleets, networks, facilities, and other assets of the Company in a
seamless manner that minimizes any adverse impact on Customers, suppliers, Employees, and other constituencies;







•the challenges associated with integrating the Company’s workforce while maintaining focus on providing consistent, high quality Customer Service;
and



•potential unknown liabilities, liabilities that are significantly larger than the Company currently anticipates, and unforeseen increased expenses or
delays, including costs to integrate AirTran’s business that may exceed the Company’s estimates.

Any of the foregoing factors could adversely affect the Company’s ability to maintain relationships with Customers, suppliers,
Employees and other constituencies or the Company’s ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition on a timely basis, or at all, or could reduce the Company’s earnings or otherwise adversely affect the business and
financial results of the Company. In addition, integration requirements have caused, and may continue to cause, the Company to delay other strategic initiatives.

The Company’s future results will suffer if it does not effectively manage its expanded operations.

Upon completion of the Company’s acquisition of AirTran, the size of the Company’s business increased significantly beyond the then current size of either the Company’s or AirTran’s
businesses. The Company’s future success depends, in part, upon its ability to manage this expanded business, which may pose substantial challenges for management, including challenges related to the management and monitoring of new operations,
including new international operations, and associated increased costs and complexity. There can be no assurances that the Company will be successful or that it will realize the expected operating efficiencies, cost savings, revenue enhancements,
and other benefits currently anticipated from the acquisition.

The need to integrate AirTran’s workforce presents
the potential for delay in achieving expected synergies and other benefits, or labor disputes that could adversely affect the Company’s operations and costs.

The successful integration of AirTran and achievement of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition depend significantly on integrating AirTran’s Employees into the Company and on maintaining
productive Employee relations. Failure to do so presents the potential for (i) delays in achieving expected synergies and other benefits of integration or (ii) labor disputes that could adversely affect the Company’s operations and
costs. In addition, disputes regarding the integration of AirTran Employees could negatively affect the Company’s historically positive Employee culture.

Pending operational integration of AirTran with the Company, it will be necessary to maintain a “fence” between Southwest and AirTran Employee groups subject to CBAs, during which time the
Company and AirTran will continue to keep the Employee groups separate, each applying the terms of its own existing CBAs, unless other terms have been negotiated.

The Company is expected to continue to incur substantial expenses related to the acquisition and the integration of AirTran’s business.

The Company is expected to continue to incur substantial integration and transition expenses in connection with the acquisition of
AirTran, including the necessary costs associated with integrating the operations of Southwest and AirTran. There are a large number of processes, policies, procedures, operations, technologies, and systems that must be integrated, including
reservations, frequent flyer, ticketing/distribution, maintenance, and flight operations. While the Company has assumed that a certain level of expenses will be incurred, there are many factors beyond its control that could affect the total amount
or the timing of the integration expenses. Moreover, many of the expenses that will be incurred are, by their nature, difficult to estimate accurately. These expenses could, particularly in the near term, exceed the financial benefits the Company
expects to achieve from the acquisition, including the elimination of duplicative expenses and the realization of economies of scale and cost savings. These integration expenses likely will continue to result in the Company taking significant
charges against earnings in future periods, and the amount and timing of such charges are uncertain at present.







The Company’s operations may be adversely affected by its expansion into non-U.S.
jurisdictions and the related increase in laws to which it is subject.

The Company’s expansion, through AirTran,
of its operations into non-U.S. jurisdictions also expands the scope of the laws to which the Company is subject, both domestically and internationally. In addition, operations in non-U.S. jurisdictions are in many cases subject to the laws of those
jurisdictions rather than U.S. laws. Laws in some jurisdictions differ in significant respects from those in the United States, and these differences can affect the Company’s ability to react to changes in its business, and its rights or
ability to enforce rights may be different than would be expected under U.S. law. Further, enforcement of laws in some jurisdictions can be inconsistent and unpredictable, which can affect both the Company’s ability to enforce its rights and to
undertake activities that it believes are beneficial to its business. As a result, the Company’s ability to generate revenue and its expenses in non-U.S. jurisdictions may differ from what would be expected if U.S. law governed these
operations. Although the Company has policies and procedures in place that are designed to promote compliance with the laws of the jurisdictions in which it operates, a violation by the Company’s Employees, contractors, or agents or other
intermediaries, could nonetheless occur. Any violation (or alleged or perceived violation), even if prohibited by the Company’s policies, could have an adverse effect on the Company’s reputation and/or its results of operations.

The Company will need to continue certain branding or rebranding initiatives in connection with the acquisition that may
take a significant amount of time and involve substantial additional costs and that may not be favorably received by Customers.

The Company may incur substantial additional costs in rebranding AirTran’s products and services, and it may not be able to achieve or maintain brand name recognition or status under the Southwest
brand that is comparable to the recognition and status previously enjoyed by AirTran in any of AirTran’s markets. The failure of any such rebranding initiative could adversely affect the Company’s ability to attract and retain Customers,
which could cause the Company not to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits contemplated to result from the acquisition.

The Company’s ability to use AirTran’s net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income for U.S. federal income tax purposes may be limited as a result of the acquisition,
or if taxable income does not reach sufficient levels.

Following the filing of AirTran’s May 2, 2011 short
period Federal tax return in first quarter 2012, AirTran had Federal net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLs”) of approximately $560 million available to offset future taxable income, expiring between 2017 and 2031. Although the Company is
limited in the amount of NOLs that can be used in each year, it was able to utilize a portion of such benefits in its 2011 Federal tax return and expects to be able to utilize an additional portion when it files its 2012 Federal tax return.

AirTran experienced an “ownership change” as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended (the “Code”), as a result of its acquisition by the Company. Section 382 of the Code imposes an annual limitation on the amount of post-ownership change taxable income generated that may be offset with pre-ownership change
NOLs of the corporation that experiences an ownership change. The limitation imposed by Section 382 of the Code for any post-ownership change year generally would be determined by multiplying the value of such corporation’s stock
immediately before the ownership change by the applicable longterm tax-exempt rate. Any unused annual limitation may, subject to certain limits, be carried over to later years, and the limitation may, under certain circumstances, be increased by
built-in gains or reduced by built-in losses in the assets held by such corporation at the time of the ownership change. The combined company’s use of NOLs arising after the date of an ownership change would not be limited unless the combined
company were to experience a subsequent ownership change.

While the Company expects to be able to utilize the entire amount of
such NOLs prior to their respective expirations, the Company’s ability to use the NOLs will also depend on the amount of taxable income generated in future periods. The NOLs may expire before the Company can generate sufficient taxable income
to utilize the NOLs.







AirTran is currently subject to pending antitrust litigation, and if judgment were to
be rendered against AirTran in the litigation, such judgment could adversely affect the Company’s operating results.

The application of the acquisition method of accounting resulted in the Company recording a significant amount of goodwill, which
could result in significant future impairment charges and negatively affect the Company’s financial results.

In
accordance with applicable acquisition accounting rules, the Company recorded goodwill on its Consolidated Balance Sheet to the extent the AirTran acquisition purchase price exceeded the net fair value of AirTran’s tangible and intangible
assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. Goodwill is not amortized, but is tested for impairment at least annually. Impairment charges could be recorded in the Company’s results of operations as a result of, among other
items, extreme fuel price volatility, a significant decline in the fair value of certain tangible or intangible assets, unfavorable trends in forecasted results of operations and cash flows and the uncertain economic environment, as well as other
uncertainties. The Company can provide no assurance that a significant impairment charge will not occur in one or more future periods. Any such charges may materially negatively affect the Company’s financial results. See Note 1 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.







