ITEM 1.BUSINESS

Overview

We are a diversified power generation and utility company organized into six market-oriented Strategic Business Units (“SBUs”): US (United States), Andes (Chile, Colombia, and Argentina),
Brazil, MCAC (Mexico, Central America and Caribbean), EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa), and Asia. We were incorporated in 1981.

Item 1.—Business. is an outline of our strategy and our businesses by SBU, including key financial drivers. Additional drivers that may have an impact on our businesses are discussed in
Item 1A. –Risk Factorsand Item 3.—Legal Proceedings.

Strategy

Our strategic plan intends to maximize the risk-adjusted value of our portfolio for shareholders through our efforts to execute upon the
following objectives:



•First, we are managing our portfolio of generation and utility businesses to create value for our stakeholders, including customers and shareholders,
through safe, reliable, and sustainable operations and effective cost management.



•Second, we are driving our operating business to manage capital more effectively and to increase the amount of discretionary cash available for
deployment into debt repayment, growth investments, shareholder dividends, and share buybacks.



•Third, we are realigning our geographic focus. To this end, we will continue to exit markets where we do not have a competitive advantage or where we
are unable to earn a fair risk-adjusted return relative to monetization alternatives. In addition, we will focus our growth investments on platform expansions or opportunities to expand our existing operations.



•Finally, we are working to reduce the cash flow and earnings volatility of our businesses by proactively managing our currency, commodity and political
risk exposures, mostly through contractual and regulatory mechanisms, as well as commercial hedging activities. We also will continue to limit our risk by utilizing non-recourse project financing for the majority of our businesses.

Business Lines & Strategic Business Units

Within our six SBUs, as discussed above, we have two lines of business. The first business line is generation, where we own and/or operate
power plants to generate and sell power to customers, such as utilities, industrial users, and other intermediaries. The second business line is utilities, where we own and/or operate utilities to generate or purchase, distribute, transmit and sell
electricity to end-user customers in the residential, commercial, industrial and governmental sectors within a defined service area. In certain circumstances, our utilities also generate and sell electricity on the wholesale market.







The following table summarizes our generation business by capacity and facilities and our
utilities business by customers, capacity and facilities for each SBU.



SBUGeneration Capacity(Gross MW)GenerationFacilitiesUtilityCustomersUtilityGWhUtilityBusinessesUSGeneration6,28121Utilities7,517181.1 million31,7772AndesGeneration7,74030BrazilGeneration3,29813Utilities7.7 million54,4082MCACGeneration3,86016Utilities1.2 million3,6424EMEAGeneration8,46022Utilities936112.2 million11,2354AsiaGeneration1,337439,429(1)13512.2 million101,06212



(1)30,251 proportional MW. Proportional MW is equal to gross MW times AES’ equity ownership percentage.

Generation

We currently own and/or operate a generation portfolio of approximately 31,000 MW, excluding the generation capabilities of our integrated utilities. Our generation fleet is diversified by fuel type. As a
percentage of installed capacity, coal and natural gas each account for 36% and 35%, respectively, of our generating capacity. Renewables, primarily hydro, wind and solar, represent 25% of our generating capacity and oil, diesel and petroleum coke
comprise the rest.

Performance drivers of our generation businesses include types of electricity sales agreements, plant
reliability and flexibility, fuel costs, fixed-cost management, sourcing and competition.

Electricity Sales Contracts

Our generation businesses sell electricity under medium—or long-term contracts (“contract sales”) or under
short-term agreements in competitive markets (“short-term sales”).

Contract Sales.Most of our generation
fleet sells electricity under medium—or long-term contracts. Our contract sales have a term of at least 2 years, but the majority of our contracts are much longer in duration, from 5 to 25 years. Our generation businesses use two contracting
strategies, a single contract strategy and a portfolio contract strategy.

Single contracts generally have terms of 10 to 25
years with either a regulated or large industrial unregulated customer. Under these contracts, our generation businesses recover variable costs including fuel and variable operations and maintenance (“O&M”) costs, either through
contractual pass-throughs or tolling arrangements (see discussion under “Fuel Costs”). These contracts are intended to reduce exposure to the volatility of fuel prices and electricity prices by linking the business’s revenues and
costs. These contracts also help us to fund a significant portion of the total capital cost of the project through long-term non-recourse project-level financing. Our generation businesses in the United States, Bulgaria, and Vietnam are some
examples of where we have used the single-contract approach.







Some of our businesses utilize a portfolio contract strategy. Under this approach, the
business sells its output to several different customers with the aim of contracting a significant portion of total output and we generally contract for a period of 2 to 10 years with a regulated customer (utility, municipal or cooperative) or
unregulated free client (a customer that is allowed under the local regulatory regime to contract directly for its electricity needs). These contracts typically include a direct or indexation-based fuel pass-through. When the contract does not
include a fuel pass-through, we typically hedge fuel costs or enter into fuel supply agreements for a similar contract period (see discussion under “Fuel Costs”). Examples of businesses with the portfolio contract strategy include AES
Gener in Chile and Masinloc in the Philippines.

Capacity Payments and Contract Sales.Most of our contract sales
include a capacity payment that covers projected fixed costs of the plant, including fixed O&M expenses and a return on capital invested. In addition, most of our contracts require that the majority of the capacity payment be denominated in the
currency matching our fixed costs, including debt and return on capital invested. Although our project debt may consist of both fixed and floating rate debt, we typically hedge a significant portion of our exposure to variable interest rates. For
foreign exchange, we generally structure the revenue of the business to match the currency of the debt and fixed costs.

Thus,
these contracts, or other commercial arrangements that we have made around or in addition to these contracts, significantly mitigate our exposure to changes in power and fuel prices, currency fluctuations and changes in interest rates. In addition,
these contracts generally provide for a recovery of our fixed operating expenses and a return on our investment, as long as we operate the plant to the reliability standards required in the contract. This important risk mitigation helps to limit the
variability of the earnings and cash flows of the business.

Short-Term Sales.Our other generation businesses sell
power and ancillary services under short-term contracts with a term of 2 years or less, including spot sales, directly in the short-term market, or, in some cases, at regulated prices. The short-term markets are typically administered by a system
operator to coordinate dispatch. Short-term markets generally operate on merit order dispatch, where the least expensive generation facilities, based upon variable cost, are dispatched first and the most expensive facilities are dispatched last. The
short-term price is typically set at the marginal cost of energy or bid price (the cost of the last plant required to meet system demand). As a result, the cash flows and earnings associated with these businesses are more sensitive to fluctuations
in the market price for electricity. In addition, many of these wholesale markets include markets for ancillary services to support the reliable operation of the transmission system. Across our portfolio, we provide a wide array of ancillary
services, including voltage support, frequency regulation and spinning reserves. An example of a business with short-term sales is our Kilroot facility in the United Kingdom.

Capacity Payments and Short-Term Sales.Many of the markets in which we operate include regulated capacity markets. These capacity markets are intended to provide additional revenue based upon
availability without reliance on the energy margin from the merit order dispatch. Capacity markets are typically priced based on the cost of a new entrant and the system capacity relative to the desired level of reserve margin (generation available
in excess of peak demand). Our generating facilities selling in the short-term market typically receive capacity payments based on their availability in the market.

Plant Reliability and Flexibility

Our contract and short-term sales
provide incentives to our generation plants to optimally manage availability, operating efficiency and flexibility. Capacity payments under the single contract strategy are tied to meeting minimum standards. In short-term sales, our plants must be
reliable and flexible to capture peak market prices and to maximize market-based revenues. In addition, our flexibility allows us to capture ancillary service revenue, meeting local market needs.







Fuel Costs

For our thermal generation plants, fuel is a significant component of our total cost of generation. For contract sales, we often enter into fuel supply agreements to match the contract period, or we may
hedge our fuel costs. Some of our contracts have periodic adjustments for changes in fuel cost indices. In those cases, we have fuel supply agreements with shorter terms to match those adjustments. For certain projects using the single contract
strategy, we have tolling arrangements where the power offtaker is responsible for the supply and cost of fuel to our plants.

In short-term sales, we sell power at market prices that are generally reflective of the market cost of fuel at the time, and thus
procure fuel supply on a short-term basis, generally designed to match up with our market sales profile. Since fuel price is often the primary determinant for power prices, the economics of projects with short-term sales are often subject to
volatility of relative fuel prices.

About one-third of our generation fleet is coal-fired. In the United States, most of our
plants are supplied from domestic coal. At our non-U.S. generation plants and at our plant in Hawaii, we source coal internationally. Across our fleet, we utilize our global sourcing program to maximize the purchasing power of our fuel procurement.

Roughly one-third of our generation plants are fueled by natural gas. Generally, we use gas from local supplies in each
market. A few exceptions to this are AES Gener in Chile, our Uruguaiana plant in Brazil, which resumed operations in February 2013, and the Dominican Republic, where we import Liquefied Natural Gas (“LNG”) to utilize in the local market.

Approximately five percent of our generation fleet utilizes oil, diesel and petroleum coke (“pet coke”) for fuel.
Oil and diesel are sourced locally at prices indexed to international markets, while pet coke is largely sourced from Mexico and the U.S. The remaining portion of our portfolio is comprised mostly of hydro, wind and solar generation plants, which do
not have significant fuel costs.

Fixed-Cost Management

In our businesses with long-term contracts, the majority of the fixed operating and maintenance costs are recovered through the capacity
payment. However, for all generation businesses, managing fixed costs and reducing them over time is a driver of business performance.

Competition

For our businesses with medium—or long-term contracts,
there is limited competition during the term of the contract. For short-term sales, plant dispatch and the price of electricity is determined by market competition and local dispatch and reliability rules.

Utilities

AES’ 12 utility businesses distribute power to more than 12 million people in six countries. These businesses also include generation capacity totaling approximately 8,500 MW. These
businesses have a variety of structures, ranging from integrated utility to pure transmission and distribution businesses.

In
general, our utilities sell electricity directly to end-users, such as homes and businesses, and bill customers directly. Key performance drivers for utilities include the regulated rate of return and tariff, seasonality, weather variations,
economic activity, reliability of service and competition.







Regulated Rate of Return and Tariff

In exchange for the exclusive right to sell or distribute electricity in a franchise area, our utility businesses are subject to
government regulation. This regulation sets the prices (“tariffs”) that our utilities are allowed to charge retail customers for electricity and establishes service standards that we are required to meet.

Our utilities are generally permitted to earn a regulated rate of return on assets, determined by the regulator based on the
utility’s allowed regulatory asset base, capital structure and cost of capital. The asset base on which the utility is permitted a return is determined by the regulator and is based on the amount of assets that are considered used and useful in
serving customers. Both the allowed return and the asset base are important components of the utility’s earning power. The allowed rate of return and operating expenses deemed reasonable by the regulator are recovered through the regulated
tariff that the utility charges to its customers.

The tariff may be reviewed and reset by the regulator from time to time
depending on local regulations, or the utility may seek a change in its tariffs. The tariff is generally based upon a certain usage level and may include a pass-through to the customer of costs that are not controlled by the utility, such as the
costs of fuel (in the case of integrated utilities) and/or the costs of purchased energy. In addition to fuel and purchased energy, other types of costs may be passed through to customers via an existing mechanism, such as certain environmental
expenditures that are covered under an environmental tracker at our utility in Indiana, Indianapolis Power & Light Company (“IPL”). Components of the tariff that are directly passed through to the customer are usually adjusted
through a summary regulatory process or an existing formula-based mechanism. In many instances, the tariffs can be adjusted between scheduled regulatory resets pursuant to an inflation adjustment or another index. Customers with demand above a
certain level are unregulated in some regulatory regimes and can choose to contract with generation companies directly and pay a wheeling fee, which is a fee to the distribution company for use of its distribution system.

The regulated tariff generally recognizes that our utility businesses should recover certain operating and fixed costs, as well as manage
uncollectible amounts, quality of service and non-technical losses. Utilities therefore need to manage costs to the levels reflected in the tariff or risk non-recovery of costs or diminished returns.

Seasonality, Weather Variations and Economic Activity

Our utility businesses are affected by seasonal weather patterns throughout the year and, therefore, the operating revenues and associated operating expenses are not generated evenly by month during the
year. Additionally, weather variations may also have an impact based on the number of customers, temperature variances from normal conditions and customers’ historic usage levels and patterns. The retail kilowatt hours (“kWh”) sales,
after adjustments for weather variations, are affected by changes in local economic activity, energy efficiency initiatives, as well as the number of retail customers.

Reliability of Service

Our utility businesses must meet certain
reliability standards, such as duration and frequency of outages. Those standards may be specific with incentives or penalties for performance against these standards. In other cases, the standards are implicit and the utility must operate to meet
customer expectations.

Competition

Our integrated utilities, such as IPL and The Dayton Power & Light Company (“DP&L”), operate as the sole distributor of electricity within their respective jurisdictions. Our
businesses own and operate all of the businesses and facilities necessary to generate, transmit and distribute electricity. Competition in the regulated electric business is primarily from the on-site generation of industrial customers; however, in
Ohio, our native







load customers have the ability to switch to alternative suppliers for their generation service. Our integrated utilities, particularly DP&L, are exposed to the volatility in wholesale prices
to the extent our generating capacity exceeds the native load served under the regulated tariff and short-term contracts. See the full discussion under the US SBU.

At our pure transmission and distribution businesses, such as those in Brazil and El Salvador, we face relatively limited competition due to significant barriers to entry. At many of these businesses,
large customers, as defined by the relevant regulator, can leave and choose to return to regulated service.

Development
and Construction

We develop and construct new generation facilities. For our utility businesses, new plants may be
built in response to customer needs or to comply with regulatory developments and are developed subject to regulatory approval that permits recovery of our capital cost and a return on our investment. For our generation businesses, our priority for
development is platform expansion opportunities, where we can add on to our existing facilities in our key platform markets where we have a competitive advantage. We make the decision to invest in new projects by evaluating the project returns and
financial profile against a fair risk-adjusted return for the investment and against alternative uses of capital, including corporate debt repayment and share buybacks.

In some cases, we enter into long-term contracts for output from new facilities prior to commencing construction. To limit required equity contributions from The AES Corporation, we also seek non-recourse
project debt financing and other sources of capital, including partners where it is commercially attractive. For construction, we typically contract with a third party to manage the construction, although our construction management team supervises
the construction work to ensure that the project is completed within budget and meets the required safety, efficiency and productivity standards.

Environmental Matters

We are subject to various international,
federal, state, and/or local regulations in all of our markets. These regulations govern such items as the determination of the market mechanism for setting the system marginal price for energy and the establishment of guidelines and incentives for
the addition of new capacity.

We are also subject to various federal, state, regional and local environmental protection and
health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things, the generation, storage, handling, use, disposal and transportation of hazardous materials; the emission and discharge of hazardous and other materials into the environment; and
the health and safety of our employees. These laws and regulations often require a lengthy and complex process of obtaining and renewing permits and other governmental authorizations from federal, state and local agencies. Violation of these laws,
regulations or permits can result in substantial fines, other sanctions, suspension or revocation of permits and/or facility shutdowns. See later in Item 1.—Businessand Environmental and Land Use Regulationsfor further
regulatory and environmental discussion.

Renewables and Other Initiatives

In recent years, as demand for renewable sources of energy has grown, we have also been developing and/or acquiring hydro, wind, and solar
based renewable projects. Currently, we own interests in 9,691 MW (5,216 proportional MW) of renewable projects, including projects in operations and under construction. Currently, the majority of our renewable capacity is hydro-based, representing
84% of our renewable portfolio.

In 2005, we started investing in wind generation businesses and currently have 1,518 MW in
operation. In addition, we have 36 MW under construction.







In 2008, we formed a 50/50 joint venture with Riverstone to develop, own and operate solar
installations. Since its launch, AES Solar has commenced commercial operations of 256 MW of solar projects in Bulgaria, France, Greece, India, Italy, Puerto Rico and Spain, and has 266 MW under construction in Bulgaria, France, Greece, India, Italy
and the U.S.

None of these initiatives are currently material to our operations, however, there are risks associated with these initiatives,
which are further described in Item 1A.—Risk Factorsof this Form 10-K.

Strategic Business Units

AES operates and manages its six SBUs under one Chief Operating Officer (“COO”). All SBUs include generation
facilities and four include utility businesses. The Company measures the operating performance of its SBUs using adjusted pre-tax contribution (“adjusted PTC”), a non-GAAP measure (see definition below).

AES’ primary sources of revenue, gross margin and adjusted PTC are from generation and utilities businesses. The contribution to
adjusted PTC by SBU for the year ended December 31, 2012 is shown below. The percentages shown are the contribution by each SBU to gross adjusted PTC, i.e. the total adjusted PTC by SBU, before deductions for Corporate. See
Item 8.—Financial Statements and Supplementary Datafor reconciliation.





We define Adjusted PTC as pre-tax income from continuing operations attributable to AES excluding
gains or losses of the consolidated entity due to (a) unrealized gains or losses related to derivative transactions, (b) unrealized foreign currency gains or losses, (c) significant gains or losses due to dispositions and acquisitions
of business interests, (d) significant losses due to impairments, and (e) costs due to the early retirement of debt. Adjusted PTC also includes net equity in earnings of affiliates on an after-tax basis. Adjusted PTC in each SBU includes
the effect of intercompany transactions with other SBUs other than interest and charges for certain management services.

Risks

We routinely encounter and address risks, some of which may cause our future results to be different, sometimes materially different, than we presently anticipate. The categories of risk we have
identified in Item 1A.—Risk Factorsof this Form 10-K include the following:



•risks related to our high level of indebtedness;







•risks associated with our ability to raise needed capital;



•external risks associated with revenue and earnings volatility;



•risks associated with our operations;



•risks associated with governmental regulation and laws; and



•risks associated with our disclosure controls and internal controls over financial reporting.

The categories of risk identified above are discussed in greater detail in Item 1A.—Risk Factorsof this Form 10-K.
These risk factors should be read in conjunction with Item 7.—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes included elsewhere
in this report.

Our Organization and Segments

The management reporting structure is organized along the six SBUs – led by our COO, who in turn reports to our Chief Executive
Officer (“CEO”). Our CEO and COO are based in Arlington, Virginia. During the fourth quarter of 2012, the Company completed the restructuring of its operational management and reporting process into these six SBUs. For financial reporting
purposes, the Company has identified eight reportable segments based on the six SBUs, which include:



•US SBU



•US—Generation segment



•US—Utilities segment



•Andes SBU



•Andes—Generation segment



•Brazil SBU



•Brazil—Generation segment



•Brazil—Utilities segment



•MCAC SBU



•MCAC—Generation segment



•EMEA SBU



•EMEA—Generation segment



•Asia SBU



•Asia—Generation segment

Corporate and Other—For financial reporting purposes the Company’s EMEA and MCAC utilities as well as Corporate are reported within “Corporate and Other” because they do not
require separate disclosure under segment reporting accounting guidance. See Item 7.—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operationsand Note 17—Segment and Geographic
Informationincluded in Item 8.—Financial Statements and Supplementary Datafor further discussion of the Company’s segment structure used for financial reporting purposes.

AES Solar and certain other unconsolidated businesses are accounted for using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, their operating
results are included in “Net Equity in Earnings of Affiliates” on the face of the Consolidated Statements of Operations, not in revenue and gross margin.







“Corporate and Other” also includes costs related to corporate overhead which are
not directly associated with the operations of our eight reportable segments and other intercompany charges such as self-insurance premiums which are fully eliminated in consolidation. See Note 17—Segment and Geographic Informationin
the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for information on revenue from external customers, adjusted PTC (a non-GAAP measure) and total assets by segment.

The following describes our businesses within our six SBUs:

US SBU

Our US SBU has 21 generation facilities and two integrated
utilities in the United States. Our US operations accounted for 20%, 10% and 12% of consolidated AES gross margin and 19%, 10% and 13% of consolidated AES adjusted PTC (a non-GAAP measure) in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The percentages shown
are the contribution by each SBU to gross adjusted PTC, i.e. the total adjusted PTC by SBU, before deductions for Corporate.





The following table provides highlights of our U.S. operations:



Generation Capacity13,798 gross MW (13,664 proportional MW)Utilities Penetration1,107,000 customers (31,777 GWh)Generation Facilities21Utility Businesses2 integrated utilities (includes 18 generation
plants)Key Generation BusinessesSouthland and HawaiiKey Utility BusinessesIPL and DPL







Operating installed capacity of our US SBU totals 13,798 MW, of which 29%, 28%, 27% and 16%,
is located at our Southland, DPL, IPL, and additional U.S. generation facilities, respectively. IPL’s parent, IPALCO Enterprises, Inc., and DPL Inc. are SEC registrants, and as such, follow public filing requirements of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934. Set forth in the table below is a list of our U.S. businesses:



BusinessLocationFuelGrossMWAES EquityOwnership(Percent,Rounded)YearAcquiredor BeganOperationSouthland—AlamitosUS—CAGas2,075100%1998Southland—Redondo BeachUS—CAGas1,392100%1998Southland—Huntington BeachUS—CAGas474100%1998Shady PointUS—OKCoal360100%1991Buffalo Gap II(1)US—TXWind233100%2007HawaiiUS—HICoal208100%1992Warrior RunUS—MDCoal205100%2000Buffalo Gap III(1)US—TXWind170100%2008DeepwaterUS—TXPet Coke160100%1986Wind Generation Facilities(2)USWind1340%2005Beaver ValleyUS—PACoal132100%1985Buffalo Gap I(1)US—TXWind121100%2006Lake Benton I(1)US—MNWind106100%2007Armenia Mountain(1)US—PAWind101100%2009Laurel MountainUS—WVWind98100%2011Storm Lake II(1)US—IAWind78100%2007Mountain View I & II(1)US—CAWind67100%2008Condon(1)US—CAWind50100%2005Mountain View IVUS—CAWind49100%2012TehachapiUS—CAWind38100%2006Palm SpringsUS—CAWind30100%20056,281



(1)AES owns these
assets together with third party tax equity investors with variable ownership interests. The tax equity investors receive a portion of the economic attributes of the facilities, including tax attributes that vary over the life of the projects. The
proceeds from the issuance of tax equity are recorded as Non-Controlling Interest in the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet.

(2)AES operates these
facilities through management or O&M agreements and owns no equity interest in these businesses.

Set
forth in the tables below is a list of our U.S. utilities and their generation facilities:



BusinessLocationApproximateNumber ofCustomersServed as of12/31/2012GWhSold in2012AES EquityInterest(Percent,Rounded)YearAcquiredDP&LUS—OH637,00016,454100%2011IPLUS—IN470,00015,323100%20011,107,00031,777







BusinessLocationFuelGrossMWAES EquityInterest(Percent,Rounded)YearAcquiredor BeganOperationDP&L(1)US—OHCoal/Diesel/Solar3,818100%2011IPL(2)US—INCoal/Gas/Oil3,699100%20017,517



(1)DP&L wholly-owned plants: Hutchings, Tait Units 1-3 and diesels, Yankee Street, Yankee Solar, Monument and Sidney. DP&L jointly-owned plants:
Beckjord Unit 6, Conesville Unit 4, East Bend Unit 2, Killen, Miami Fort Units 7 & 8, Stuart and Zimmer. In addition to the above, DP&L, also owns a 4.9% equity ownership in OVEC, an electric generating company. OVEC has two plants in
Cheshire, Ohio and Madison, Indiana with a combined generation capacity of approximately 2,655 MW. DP&L’s share of this generation capacity is approximately 111 MW. DPLE Energy, LLC plants: Tait Units 4-7 and Montpelier Units 1-4.

(2)IPL plants: Eagle Valley, Georgetown, Harding Street and Petersburg.

The following map illustrates the location of our U.S. facilities:





US SBU Businesses

U.S. Utilities

IPALCO

Business Description.IPALCO owns all of the outstanding common stock of IPL. IPL is engaged primarily in generating, transmitting,
distributing and selling electric energy to approximately 470,000 customers in the city of Indianapolis and neighboring areas within the state of Indiana. IPL has an exclusive right to provide electric service to those customers. IPL’s service
area covers about 528 square miles with a population of approximately 911,000. IPL owns and operates four generating stations. Two of the generating stations are primarily coal-fired. The third station has a combination of units that use coal
(baseload capacity) and natural gas







and/or oil (peaking capacity) for fuel to produce electricity. The fourth station is a small peaking station that uses gas-fired combustion turbine technology. IPL’s net electric
generation capacity for winter is 3,492 MW and net summer capacity is 3,353 MW.

Market Structure.IPL is one of
many transmission system owner members in the Midwest Independent Transmission System Operator, Inc. (“MISO”). MISO is a regional transmission organization which maintains functional control over the combined transmission systems of its
members and manages one of the largest energy and ancillary services markets in the U.S. IPL offers the available electricity production of each of its generation assets into the MISO day-ahead and real-time markets. MISO operates on a merit order
dispatch, considering transmission constraints and other reliability issues to meet the total demand in the MISO region.

Regulatory Framework

Retail Ratemaking.

Other United States Environmental and Land Use Legislation and
Regulations

Environmental Matters

Mercury and Air Toxics Standards (“MATS”).IPL management has developed a plan to comply with the MATS rule (discussed below). Most of IPL’s coal-fired capacity has acid gas
scrubbers or comparable control technologies; however, there are other improvements to these control technologies that are necessary to achieve compliance. IPL was successful in deferring IPL’s compliance date to April 16, 2016, based on
an extension granted by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management (“IDEM”).

IPL has reviewed the
impact of the MATS rule and estimate additional expenditures related to this rule for environmental controls for IPL’s baseload generating units to be approximately $511 million through 2016 excluding demolition costs. In June 2012, IPL filed a
petition and requested a Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity (“CPCN”) to comply with the MATS rule. These filings detail the controls IPL plans to add to each of IPL’s five baseload units, including four at IPL’s
Petersburg generating station and one at IPL’s Harding Street generating station. IPL will seek and expect to recover through IPL’s environmental rate adjustment mechanism, all operating and capital expenditures related to compliance;
however, there can be no assurance that IPL will be successful in that regard. Recovery of these costs is expected through an Indiana statute, which allows for 100% recovery of qualifying costs through a rate adjustment mechanism. Funding for these
capital expenditures is expected to be obtained from additional debt financing at IPL; equity contributions from AES; borrowing capacity on IPL’s committed credit facilities; and cash generated from operating activities.

National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (“NPDES”).On August 28, 2012, IDEM issued NPDES permits to the IPL
Petersburg, Harding Street, and Eagle Valley generating stations, which became effective in October 2012. IPL isconducting studies to determine what operational changes and/or additional equipment will







be required tocomply with the new limitation. IPL cannot predict the impact of these regulations on IPL’s consolidated results of operations, cash flows, or financial condition,
but it is expected to be material.Recovery of these costs is expected through an Indiana statute, which allows for 80% recovery of qualifying costs through a rate adjustment mechanism with the remainder recorded as a regulatory asset to be
considered for recovery in the next basic rate case proceeding; however there can be no assurances that IPL would be successful in that regard.See Water Discharges discussion underOtherUnited States Environmental and Land Use
Legislation and Regulationsfor further details of NPDES later in this section.

Replacement Generation.The
combination of existing and expected environmental regulations make it likely that IPL will temporarily or permanently retire or repower several of IPL’s existing, primarily coal-fired, smaller and older generating units within the next several
years. These units are not equipped with the advanced environmental control technologies needed to comply with existing and expected regulations, and collectively have made up less than 15% of IPL’s net electricity generation over the past five
years. IPL is continuing to evaluate available options for replacing this generation, which include modifying one or more of the units to use natural gas as the fuel source, building new units, purchasing existing units, joint ownership of
generating units, purchasing electricity and capacity from a third party, or some combination of these options. Accordingly, in June 2012, IPL issued a request for proposals for 600 MW of replacement capacity and energy beginning in June 2017, which
is intended to help IPL determine the best plan for replacement generation. Proposals from outside parties have been received and IPL is currently evaluating appropriate next steps. IPL’s decision on which replacement options to pursue will be
impacted by the ultimate timetable for implementation of the rule. IPL will seek and expect to recover IPL’s costs associated with replacing the retired units, but no assurance can be given as to whether the IURC would approve such a request.

Key Financial Drivers

IPL’s ability to earn wholesale margin is influenced by wholesale prices for electricity, fuel prices and the availability of their generating assets. Retail demand also influences IPL’s
financial results. IPL’s ability to recover expenses and earn a return on capital expenditures in a timely manner, as well as passage of new legislation or implementation of regulations, has an impact on the business. Local macroeconomic
conditions, given that IPL has an exclusive territory, weather and energy efficiency also drive their retail demand.

DPL Inc.

Business Description.DPL is an energy holding company whose principal subsidiaries include DP&L, DPL Energy Resources, Inc. (“DPLER”) and DPL Energy, LLC (“DPLE”). DP&L
generates, transmits, distributes and sells electricity to more than 513,000 customers in a 6,000 square mile area of West Central Ohio. DP&L, with certain other Ohio utilities and their affiliates, commonly owns seven coal-fired electric
generating facilities, peaking generation units, solar generating facilities and numerous transmission facilities. DP&L also has one wholly-owned coal-fired plant, along with several gas-fired peaking plants. DPLER, a competitive retail
marketer, sells retail electricity to more than 198,000 retail customers in Ohio and Illinois. Approximately 73,000 of these customers are also distribution customers of DP&L in Ohio. DPLE owns peaking generation units located in Ohio and
Indiana. DP&L’s wholly-owned plants and their share of the capacity of its jointly-owned plants and DPLE’s wholly-owned peaking units aggregate to approximately 3,818 MW.

Market Structure

Customer Switching.Since January 2001, electric customers within Ohio have been permitted to choose to purchase power under a contract with a Competitive Retail Electric Service Provider
(“CRES Provider”) or continue to purchase power from their local utility under Standard Service Offer (“SSO”) rates established by







tariff. DP&L and other Ohio utilities continue to have the exclusive right to provide delivery service in their state certified territories and DP&L has the obligation to supply
retail generation service to customers that do not choose an alternative supplier. The Public Utilities Commission of Ohio (“PUCO”) maintains jurisdiction over DP&L’s delivery of electricity, SSO and other retail electric
services. The PUCO has issued extensive rules on how and when a customer can switch generation suppliers, how the local utility will interact with CRES Providers and customers, including for billing and collection purposes, and which elements of a
utility’s rates are “bypassable” (i.e., avoided by a customer that elects a CRES Provider) and which elements are “non-bypassable” (i.e., charged to all customers receiving a distribution service irrespective of what entity
provides the retail generation service). Several communities in DP&L’s service area have passed ordinances allowing the communities to become government aggregators for the purpose of offering retail generation service to their
residences.

Overall power market prices, as well as government aggregation initiatives within DP&L’s service
territory, have led or may lead to the entrance of additional competitors in its service territory. During the year ended December 31, 2012, approximately 30% of customers representing 58% of 2012’s overall energy usage (kWh) within
DP&L’s service area had elected to obtain their supply service from CRES Providers. DPL’s subsidiary DPLER is a CRES Provider that has been marketing transmission and generation services to DP&L customers in Ohio and Illinois.
During 2012, DPLER accounted for approximately 6,201 million kWh (76%) and other CRES Providers accounted for about 1,981 million kWh (24%) of the total 8,182 million kWh supplied by CRES Providers within DP&L’s
service territory. The volume supplied by DPLER represents 44% of DP&L’s total distribution volume during 2012. DPL currently cannot determine the extent to which customer switching to CRES Providers will occur in the future and the impact
this will have on its operations, but any additional switching could have a material adverse effect on its future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

PJM Operations.DP&L is a member of the PJM Interconnection, LLC (“PJM”). PJM is a Regional Transmission Organization (“RTO”) that operates the transmission systems owned by
utilities operating in all or parts of Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Maryland, Delaware, D.C., Virginia, Ohio, West Virginia, Kentucky, North Carolina, Tennessee, Indiana and Illinois. PJM has an integrated planning process to identify potential needs
for additional transmission to be built to avoid future reliability problems. PJM also runs the day-ahead and real-time energy markets, ancillary services market, and forward capacity market for its members. As a member of PJM, DP&L is also
subject to charges and costs associated with PJM operations as approved by the FERC. The Reliability Pricing Model (“RPM”) is PJM’s capacity construct. The purpose of RPM is to enable PJM to obtain sufficient resources to reliably
meet the needs of electric customers within the PJM footprint. PJM conducts an auction to establish the price by zone, three years in advance of the delivery year. DP&L’s capacity has been located in the rest of the RTO area of PJM.

The PJM RPM auction for the 2015/16 period cleared at a per-MW price of $136/MW-day for DP&L’s RTO area. The
clearing prices for the periods 2011/12, 2012/13, 2013/14 and 2014/15 were $110/MW-day, $16/MW-day, $28/MW-day and $126/MW-day, respectively, based on previous auctions. Based on the base residual auction prices, DP&L estimates that future gross
RPM capacity revenue will be $156 million, $106 million and $28 million for 2015, 2014 and 2013 calendar years, respectively. Future RPM auction results will be dependent not only on the overall supply and demand of generation and load, but may also
be affected by load congestion as well as PJM’s business rules relating to bidding for demand response and energy efficiency resources in the RPM capacity auctions.

Regulatory Framework

Retail Regulation.DP&L is subject to
regulation by the PUCO, which regulates its distribution services and facilities, retail rates and charges, reliability of service, compliance with renewable energy portfolio and energy efficiency program requirements and certain other matters.
DP&L’s rates for electric service to retail customers consist of basic rates and charges that are set and approved by the PUCO after public hearings. In addition,







DP&L’s rates include various adjustment mechanisms including but not limited to, those to reflect changes in fuel costs to generate electricity or purchased power prices, referred to
as FAC and for the timely recovery of costs incurred to comply with alternative energy, renewable, energy efficiency, and economic development costs. These components function somewhat independently of one another, but the overall structure of
DP&L’s retail rates and charges are subject to the rules and regulations established by the PUCO.

Retail
Rate Structure.Retail generation has been deregulated in Ohio since 2001, which allows electric customers within Ohio to choose to purchase retail generation service under contract with CRES Providers. DP&L is required to provide retail
generation service to any customer that has not signed a contract with a CRES provider at SSO rates. SSO rates are subject to rules and regulations of the PUCO and are established based on either an Electric Security Plan (“ESP”) or Market
Rate Offer (“MRO”) filing. DP&L’s wholesale transmission rates are regulated by the FERC. DP&L’s distribution rates are regulated by the PUCO and are established through a traditional tariff rate setting process. DP&L
is permitted to recover its costs of providing distribution service as well as earn a regulated rate of return on assets, determined by the regulator, based on the utility’s allowed regulated asset base, capital structure and cost of capital.

DP&L filed an ESP with the PUCO in 2012 requesting, among other things, a non-bypassable charge designed to recover $137
million per year for five years from all customers. DP&L also requested approval of a switching tracker that would measure the incremental amount of switching over a base case and defer the lost value into a regulatory asset which would be
recovered from all customers beginning in January 2014. The ESP further states that DP&L plans to file on or before December 31, 2013 its plan for legal separation of its generation assets as required by legislation. The ESP proposes a
three-year, five-month transition to market, whereby a wholesale competitive bidding structure will be phased in to supply generation service to customers located in DP&L’s service territory that have not chosen an alternative generation
supplier. The PUCO authorized that DP&L’s rates in effect at December 31, 2012 would continue until the new ESP rates go into effect.

Environmental Matters

The EPA promulgated the Clean Air Interstate Rule
(“CAIR”) to regulate emissions from existing power plants in the eastern U.S. This became known as the Cross-State Air Pollution Rule (“CSAPR”) and was vacated by the D. C. Circuit Court. If CSAPR were to be reinstated in its
current form, DP&L does not expect any material capital costs for DP&L’s plants, which would continue to operate as they currently have scrubbing equipment installed.

In relation to MATS, it is expected that DP&L has several units that are fully owned or jointly-owned that are expected to cease
operations as a result of non-compliance with the requirements under MATS. For more information seeOther United States Environmental and Land Use Legislation and Regulationsdiscussion later in this section.

On January 7, 2013, Ohio EPA issued an NPDES permit for J.M. Stuart Station. DPL is analyzing the NPDES permit at this time. The
uncertainties around the type of compliance and the cost that may be necessary to become compliant could be material to DPL. SeeWater Dischargessection ofOther United States Environmental and Land Use Legislation and Regulationslater in this section for a further discussion.

Key Financial Drivers

DPL’s focus is on completing its current rate proceedings and working with all stakeholders to determine a fair and reasonable
outcome, including an appropriate non-bypassable charge. Other key objectives are retaining customers under its regulated tariff and enhancing the competitiveness of its retail business, DPLER, to maintain and gain customers with an adequate margin.
DPL’s operating performance also varies with wholesale power prices, which are largely influenced by delivered gas prices, as well as movements in local coal prices and long-







term capacity prices. Further, total demand for electricity is affected by economic activity, weather and weather-related events, and demand side management and energy efficiency measures.
Finally, DPL has refinancing risk related to 2013 debt maturities of $470 million and $300 million of un-drawn credit facilities at DP&L.

See Item 1A.—Risk Factorsfor additional discussion on DPL.

U.S. Generation

Business Description.In the U.S., we own a diversified generation portfolio in terms of geography, technology and fuel source. The principal markets where we are engaged in the generation and
supply ofelectricity (energy and capacity) are the Western Electricity Coordinating Council (“WECC”), PJM, Southwest Power Pool Electric Energy Network (“SPP”) and Hawaii. AES Southland, in the WECC, is our most
significant generating business.

AES Southland

Business Description.In terms of aggregate installed capacity, AES Southland is one of the largest generation operators in
California with an installed capacity of 3,941 MW, accounting for approximately 7% of the state’s installed capacity and 16% of the peak demand of Southern California Edison. The three coastal power plants comprising AES Southland are in areas
that are critical for local reliability and play an important role integrating the increasing amounts of renewable generation resources in California.

Market Structure.All of AES Southland’s capacity is contracted through a long-term agreement, which expires in mid-2018 (the “Tolling Agreement”). Under the Tolling Agreement, AES
Southland’s largest revenue driver is unit availability, as approximately 95% of its revenue comes from availability-related payments. Historically, AES Southland has generally met or exceeded its contractual availability requirements under the
Tolling Agreement and often captures bonuses for exceeding availability requirements in peak periods.

The offtaker under the
Tolling Agreement provides gas to the three facilities at no cost; therefore, AES Southland is not exposed to significant fuel price risk. AES Southland does, however, guarantee the efficiency of each unit so that any fuel consumed in excess of what
would have been consumed had the guaranteed efficiency been achieved is paid for by AES Southland. Additionally, if the units operate at an efficiency better than the guaranteed efficiency, AES Southland gets credit for the gas that is not consumed.
The business is also exposed to the cost of replacement power for a limited time period if any of the plants are dispatched by the offtaker and are not able to meet the required dispatch schedule for generation of electric energy.

AES Southland delivers electricity into the California Independent System Operator’s market through its Tolling Agreement
counterparty.

Regulatory Framework

Environmental Matters.The California State Water Resources Control Board (“SWRCB”) policy on the Use of Coastal and Estuarine Waters for Power Plant Cooling (the “Policy”)
became effective on October 1, 2010 and provides a phased compliance schedule, which requires all AES Southland plants to be compliant by December 31, 2020. The Policy establishes technology-based standards to implement the U.S. Clean
Water Act Section 316(b) rule issued by the EPA, which seeks to protect fish and other aquatic organisms by requiring existing steam electric generating facilities to utilize the “Best Technology Available” (“BTA”) for
cooling water intake structures. There are two potential tracks to comply with the Policy:

Track 1—Reduce intake flow
rate on each unit to a level commensurate with that which can be obtained by a closed-cycle wet cooling system.

Track
2—If they are able to demonstrate that Track 1 is not feasible, the existing power plant must reduce impingement mortality and entrainment of marine life, on a unit-by-unit basis, to a comparable level to that which would be achieved under
Track 1, using operational or structural controls, or both.







As required by the Policy, AES Southland submitted its implementation plans by April 1,
2011 and proposed to comply with the Policy by retiring the existing units and replacing them with new units that would not use ocean water provided satisfactory contracts could be obtained to support development and construction of new units. The
SWRCB is currently reviewing the implementation plans and has requested additional information to assist with their evaluation. For further discussion of environmental laws and regulations affecting the U.S. businesses, see Environmental and Land
Use Regulations later in this section.

Key Financial Drivers

AES Southland’s contractual availability is the single most important driver of operations. Its units are generally required to
achieve at least 86% availability in each contract year; AES Southland has usually met or exceeded its contractual availability.

Additional U.S. Generation Businesses

Business Description.Additional businesses include thermal and wind generating facilities, of which AES Hawaii and AES Warrior Run are the most significant, and our energy storage line of business.

Many of our U.S. generation plants provide baseload operations and are required to maintain a guaranteed level of availability. Any
change in availability has a direct impact on financial performance. The plants are generally eligible for availability bonuses on an annual basis if they meet certain requirements. In addition to plant availability, fuel cost is a key business
driver for some of our facilities. AES Hawaii receives a fuel payment from its offtaker, which is based on a fixed rate indexed to the Gross National Product – Implicit Price Deflator (“GNPIPD”). Since the fuel payment is not directly
linked to market prices for fuel, the risk arising from fluctuations in market prices for coal is borne by AES Hawaii.

To
mitigate the risk from such fluctuations, AES Hawaii has entered into fixed-price coal purchase commitments that end in December 2013; the business could be subject to variability in coal pricing beginning in 2014. To mitigate fuel risk beyond 2013,
AES Hawaii plans to seek additional fuel purchase commitments on favorable terms. However, if market prices rise and AES Hawaii is unable to procure coal supply on favorable terms, the financial performance of AES Hawaii could be materially and
adversely affected.

AES Warrior Run has a fuel contract with a major global fuel supplier where the prices for fuel and ash
removal are indexed to its PPA. This fuel contract expires in 2020 prior to the expiration of the PPA in 2030, resulting in fuel price risk for the remaining 10 years of the PPA. AES Warrior Run has begun efforts to source fuel longer term, and
facilitate fuel flexibility.

Market Structure.Two of the primary fuels used by our U.S. generation facilities, coal
and pet coke, are commodities with international prices set by market factors, although the price of the third primary fuel, natural gas is generally set domestically. Price variations for these fuels can change the composition of generation costs
and energy prices in our generation businesses. Many of these generation businesses have entered into long-term PPAs with utilities or other offtakers. Some coal-fired power plant businesses in the U.S. with PPAs have mechanisms to recover fuel
costs from the offtaker, including an energy payment that is partially based on the market price of coal. In addition, these businesses often have an opportunity to increase or decrease profitability from payments under their PPAs depending on such
items as plant efficiency and availability, heat rate, ability to buy coal at lower costs through AES’ global sourcing program, and fuel flexibility. Revenue may change materially as prices in fuel markets fluctuate, but the variable margin or
profitability should not be materially changed when market price fluctuations in fuel are borne by the offtaker.

Regulatory Framework.Several of our generation businesses in the United States, currently operate as Qualifying Facilities
(“QFs”) as defined under Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act (“PURPA”). These businesses entered into long-term contracts with electric utilities that had a mandatory obligation at that time, as specified under PURPA, to
purchase power from QFs at the utility’s avoided cost (i.e., the likely costs for both







energy and capital investment that would have been incurred by the purchasing utility if that utility had to provide its own generating capacity or purchase it from another source). To be a
QF, a cogeneration facility must produce electricity and useful thermal energy for an industrial or commercial process or heating or cooling applications in certain proportions to the facility’s total energy output, and must meet certain
efficiency standards. To be a QF, a small power production facility must generally use a renewable resource as its energy input and meet certain size criteria.

Our non-QF generation businesses in the United States currently operate as Exempt Wholesale Generators (“EWG”) as defined under EPAct 1992. These businesses, subject to approval of the Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC”), have the right to sell power at market-based rates, either directly to the wholesale market or to a third-party off taker such as a power marketer or utility/industrial customer. Under the Federal
Power Act (“FPA”) and FERC’s regulations, approval from FERC to sell wholesale power at market-based rates is generally dependent upon a showing to FERC that the seller lacks market power in generation and transmission, that the
seller and its affiliates cannot erect other barriers to market entry and that there is no opportunity for abusive transactions involving regulated affiliates of the seller. To prevent market manipulation, FERC requires sellers with market-based
rate authority to file certain reports, including a triennial updated market power analysis for markets in which they control certain threshold amounts of generation.

Other Regulatory Matters

The U.S. wholesale electricity market consists of
multiple distinct regional markets that are subject to both federal regulation, as implemented by the U.S. FERC, and regional regulation as defined by rules designed and implemented by the RTOs, non-profit corporations that operate the regional
transmission grid and maintain organized markets for electricity. These rules for the most part govern such items as the determination of the market mechanism for setting the system marginal price for energy and the establishment of guidelines and
incentives for the addition of new capacity. See Item 1A.—Risk Factorsfor additional discussion on U.S. regulatory matters.

Our businesses are subject to emission regulations, which may result in increased operating costs or the purchase of additional pollution control equipment if emission levels are exceeded. Our businesses
periodically review their obligations for compliance with environmental laws, including site restoration and remediation. Because of the uncertainties associated with environmental assessment and remediation activities, future costs of compliance or
remediation could be higher or lower than the amount currently accrued, if any. For a discussion of environmental laws and regulations affecting the U.S. business, seeOther United States Environmental and Land Use Legislation and Regulationslater in this section. In April 2012, the EPA’s rule to establish maximum achievable control technology standards for each hazardous air pollutant regulated under the Clean Air Act (“CAA”) emitted from coal and oil-fired electric
utilities, known as MATS became effective.







Andes SBU

Our Andes SBU has generation facilities in three countries, Chile, Colombia and Argentina. Our Andes operations accounted for 16%, 18% and
14% of consolidated AES gross margin and 18%, 28% and 21% of consolidated AES adjusted PTC (a non-GAAP measure) in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The percentages shown are the contribution by each SBU to gross adjusted PTC, i.e. the total
adjusted PTC by SBU, before deductions for Corporate. AES Gener, which owns all of our assets in Chile, Chivor in Colombia and TermoAndes in Argentina, as detailed below, is a publicly-listed company in Chile. AES has a 71% ownership interest in AES
Gener and this business is consolidated in our financial statements.





The following table provides highlights of our Andes operations:



CountriesArgentina, Chile and
ColombiaGeneration Capacity7,740 gross MW (5,952 proportional MW)Generation Facilities33 (including 3 under construction)Key Generation
BusinessesAES Gener, Chivor and AES
Argentina







Operating installed capacity of our Andes SBU totals 7,740 MW, of which 46%, 41% and 13% is
located in Argentina, Chile and Colombia, respectively. Set forth in the table below is a list of our Andes SBU generation facilities:



BusinessLocationFuelGrossMWAES EquityInterest(Percent,Rounded)YearAcquiredor BeganOperationChivorColombiaHydro1,00071%2000Colombia Subtotal1,000Gener(1)ChileHydro/Coal/Diesel/Biomass98671%2000Guacolda(2)ChileCoal/Pet Coke60835%2000Electrica AngamosChileCoal54571%2011Electrica Santiago(3)ChileGas/Diesel47971%2000NorgenerChileCoal/Pet Coke27771%2000Electrica Ventanas(4)ChileCoal27271%2010Chile Subtotal3,167TermoAndes(5)ArgentinaGas/Diesel64371%2000AES Gener Subtotal4,810AlicuraArgentinaHydro1,050100%2000Paraná-GTArgentinaGas/Oil/Biodiesel845100%2001San NicolásArgentinaCoal/Oil/Gas675100%1993Los Caracoles(6)ArgentinaHydro1250%2009Cabra CorralArgentinaHydro102100%1995Quebrada de Ullum(6)ArgentinaHydro450%2004UllumArgentinaHydro45100%1996SarmientoArgentinaGas/Diesel33100%1996El TunalArgentinaHydro10100%1995Argentina Subtotal2,930Andes Total7,740



(1)Gener plants: Alfalfal, Laguna Verde, Laguna Verde Turbogas, Laja, Los Vientos, Maitenas, Queltehues, San Francisco de Mostazal, Santa Lidia, Ventanas
and Volcán.

(2)Guacolda plants: Guacolda 1, Guacolda 2, Guacolda 3 and Guacolda 4. Unconsolidated entities for which the results of operations are reflected in Equity
in Earnings of Affiliates.

(3)Electrica Santiago plants: Nueva Renca and Renca.

(4)Electrica Ventanas plant: Nueva Ventanas.

(5)TermoAndes is located in Argentina, but is connected to both the SING in Chile and the SADI in Argentina.

(6)AES operates these facilities through management or O&M agreements and owns no equity interest in these businesses.

Under construction



BusinessLocationFuelGrossMWAES EquityInterest(Percent,Rounded)ExpectedYear ofCommercialOperationsGener—Ventanas IV (Campiche)(1)ChileCoal27071%2013Gener—Guacolda VChileCoal15236%2015Chile Subtotal422Chivor—TunjitaColombiaHydro2071%2014Colombia Subtotal20Andes Total442









(1)Gener—Ventanas IV (Campiche): Currently in commissioning.

The following map illustrates the location of our Andes facilities:





Andes Businesses

Chile

Business Description.In Chile, through AES Gener, we
are engaged in the generation and supply of electricity (energy and capacity) in the two principal markets: the Central Interconnected Electricity System (“SIC”) and Northern Interconnected Electricity System (“SING”). As of
December 31, 2012, AES Gener’s net power production in the SIC totaled 11,590 GWh (24% of the SIC’s total generation) and AES Gener’s net power production in the SING totaled 4,989 GWh (33% of the SING’s total generation).
In terms of aggregate installed capacity, AES Gener is the second largest generation operator in Chile with an installed capacity of 3,810 MW and market share of 21% as of December 31, 2012. In the SIC, AES Gener has installed capacity of 2,345
MW representing 17% of gross installed capacity in the system. In the SING, AES Gener have installed capacity of 1,465 MW representing 32% of gross installed capacity in the system. AES Gener’s installed capacityin the SING includes the
TermoAndes plant, which is located in northwest Argentina and connected to both the SING by a transmission line owned by AES Gener, and the Argentine electricity grid. TermoAndes was originally constructed to supply the SING by exporting energy from
2000 to 2011. TermoAndes’ electricity export permit expired on January 31, 2013. While AES Gener continues to evaluate potential renewal, TermoAndes is currently selling output of this plant in Argentina.

AES Gener owns a diversified generation portfolio in terms of geography, technology, customers and fuel source. AES Gener’s
installed capacity is located near the principal electricity consumption centers, including Santiago, Valparaiso and Antofagasta, extending from Antofagasta in the north to Concepción in south-central Chile. AES Gener’s diverse
generation portfolio, composed of hydroelectric, coal, gas, diesel and biomass facilities, allows the businesses to operate under a variety of market and hydrological conditions, manage AES Gener’s contractual obligations with regulated and
unregulated customers and, as required, provide back-up







short-term market energy to the SIC and SING. AES Gener has experienced significant growth in recent years, responding to market opportunities with the completion of nine generation projects
totaling approximately 1,400 MW and increasing AES Gener’s installed capacity by 49% from 2006 to 2013. Additionally, they are in the process of commissioning a 270 MW coal-fired plant (Ventanas IV) and constructing an additional 152 MW
coal-fired plant (Guacolda V). AES Gener plans to continue to grow with the construction of new projects in both the SIC and the SING, taking advantage of AES Gener’s presence and knowledge of the market, in addition to AES Gener’s project
management and construction skills. AES Gener’s key short-term development projects include the 532 MW coal-fired Cochrane power plant in the SING and the 531 MW run-of-river hydroelectric Alto Maipo power plant in the SIC.

In Chile, we align AES Gener’s contracts with their efficient generation capacity, contracting a significant portion of their
baseload capacity, currently coal and hydroelectric, under long-term contracts with a diversified customer base, which includes both regulated and unregulated customers. AES Gener reserves their higher variable cost units as designated back-up
facilities, principally the diesel and gas-fired units in Chile, for sales to the short-term market during scarce system supply conditions, such as dry hydrological conditions and plant outages. In Chile, sales on the short-term market are made only
to other generation companies that are members of the relevant Economic Load Dispatch Center (“CDEC”) at the system marginal cost.

AES Gener currently has long-term contracts, with average terms between 10 and 18 years, with regulated distribution companies and unregulated customers such as mining and industrial companies. In
general, these long-term contracts include both fixed and variable payments along with indexation mechanisms, which periodically adjust prices based on the generation cost structure related to the U.S. Consumer Price Index (“U.S. CPI”),
the international price of coal, and in some cases, with pass-through of full fuel and regulatory costs, including changes in law.

In addition to energy payments, AES Gener also receives firm capacity payments for contributing to the system’s ability to meet peak demand. These payments are added to the final electricity price
paid by both unregulated and regulated customers. In each system, the CDEC annually determines the firm capacity amount allocated to each power plant. A plant’s firm capacity is defined as the capacity that it can guarantee at peak hours during
critical conditions, such as droughts, taking into account statistical information regarding maintenance periods and the water inflows in the case of hydroelectric plants. The capacity price is fixed by the National Energy Commission
(“CNE”) in the semi-annual node price report and indexed to the U.S. CPI and other relevant indices.

Market
Structure.Chile has four power systems, largely as a result of its geographic shape and size. The SIC is the largest of these systems, with an installed capacity of 13,633 MW as of December 31, 2012. The SIC serves approximately 92% of the
Chilean population, including the densely populated Santiago Metropolitan Region, and supplies 75% of the country’s electricity demand. The SING serves about 6% of the Chilean population, supplying 24% of Chile’s electricity consumption,
and is mostly oriented toward mining companies.

In 2012, thermoelectric generation represented 69% of the total
generation in Chile. In the SIC, thermoelectric generation represents 55% of installed capacity and is required to fulfill demand not satisfied by hydroelectric output, and is critical to guaranteeing reliable and dependable electricity supply under
dry hydrological conditions. In the SING, which includes the Atacama Desert, the driest desert in the world, thermoelectric capacity represents 99.7% of installed capacity. The fuels used for generation, mainly coal, diesel and LNG, are commodities
with international prices.

In the SIC, where hydroelectric plants represent a large part of the system’s installed
capacity, hydrological conditions largely influence plant dispatch and therefore, short-term market prices, given that river flow volumes, melting snow and initial water levels in reservoirs largely determine the dispatch of the system’s
hydroelectric and thermoelectric generation plants. Rainfall and snowfall occurs in Chile principally in the southern cone winter season (June to August) and during the remainder of the year precipitation is scarce. When rain is abundant, energy
produced by hydroelectric plants can amount to more than 70% of total generation. In 2012, hydroelectric generation represented 41% of total energy production.







Regulatory Framework

Electricity Regulation.The governmental entity which has primary responsibility for the Chilean electricity system is the Ministry
of Energy, acting directly or through the CNE and the Superintendency of Electricity and Fuels. The electricity sector is divided into three segments: generation, transmission and distribution. In general terms, generation and transmission expansion
are subject to market competition, while transmission operation and distribution, are subject to price regulation. The transmission segment consists of companies that transmit the electricity produced by generation companies at high voltage.
Companies which are owners of a trunk transmission system cannot participate in the generation or distribution segments.

Companies in the SIC and the SING that possess generation, transmission, sub-transmission or additional transmission facilities, as well as unregulated customers directly connected to transmission
facilities, are coordinated through the CDEC, which minimizes the operating costs of the electricity system, while meeting all service quality and reliability requirements. The principal purpose of the CDEC is to ensure that the most efficient
electricity generation available to meet demand is dispatched to customers. The CDEC dispatches plants in merit order based on their variable cost of production which allows for electricity to be supplied at the lowest available cost.

All generators can commercialize energy through contracts with distribution companies for their regulated and unregulated customers, or
directly with unregulated customers. Unregulated customers are customers whose connected capacity is higher than 2 MW. Under law, both regulated and unregulated customers are required to purchase 100% of their electricity requirements under
contract. Generators may also sell energy to other power generation companies on a short-term basis. Power generation companies may also engage in contracted sales among themselves at negotiated prices, outside the short-term market. Electricity
prices in Chile, under contract and on the short-term market, are denominated in U.S. Dollars although payments are made in Chilean pesos.

Other Regulatory Considerations. In 2011, a regulation on air emission standards for thermoelectric power plants became effective. This regulation provides for stringent limits on emission of
particulate matter and gases produced by the combustion of solid and liquid fuels, particularly coal. For existing plants, including those currently under construction, the new limits for particulate matter emission will go into effect by the end of
2013 and the new limits for SO2(sulfur dioxide), NOx
(nitrogen dioxide) and mercury emission will begin to apply in mid-2016, except for those plants operating in zones declared saturated or latent zones (areas at risk of or affected by excessive air pollution), where these emission limits will become
effective by June 2015. In order to comply with the new emission standards, AES Gener in Chile will invest approximately $280 million, at its older coal facilities, including its proportional investment in an equity-method investee, Guacolda. In
2012, AES Gener initiated these investments, spending approximately $42 million, and the remaining $238 million will be invested between 2013 and 2015 in order to comply within the required timeframe.

Chilean law requires every electricity generator to supply a certain portion of their total contractual obligations with non-conventional
renewable energies (“NCREs”). The required amount is determined based on contract agreements executed after August 31, 2007. The NCRE requirement is equal to 5.0% for the period from 2010 through 2014 and thereafter the required
percentage increases by 0.5% each year, to a maximum of 10.0% by 2024. Generation companies are able to meet this requirement by developing their own NCRE generation capacity (wind, solar, biomass, geothermal and small hydroelectric technology), or
purchasing NCRE from qualified generators or by paying the applicable fines for non-compliance. AES Gener currently fulfills the NCRE requirements by utilizing AES Gener’s own biomass power plants and by purchasing NCREs from other generation
companies. They have sold certain water rights to companies that are developing small hydro projects, entering into power purchase agreements with these companies in order to promote development of these projects, while at the same time meeting the
NCRE requirements. At present, AES Gener is in the process of negotiating additional NCRE supply contracts to meet the future NCRE requirements. The authorities have announced a potential increase in future NCRE requirements and a proposed bill is
being discussed in Congress.







Key Financial Drivers

In Chile, AES Gener’s contracting strategy, determining both the amount of capacity to contract or leave uncommitted for spot market
sales and the relevant pricing formulas including indexation, is important to our profitability. AES Gener aligns their contracts with their efficient generation capacity, contracting a significant portion of their efficient capacity under long-term
contracts, while reserving their higher variable cost units for sales on the spot market. The performance of their generating assets, efficiency and availability, is also a critical part of their strategy in order to maximize contracted margins and
avoid exposure to spot price volatility.

In the SIC, hydrological conditions are also important financial drivers since they
largely influence plant dispatch and therefore, spot market prices. AES Gener becomes a short-term purchaser of electricity from other generation companies during rainy hydrological conditions, when short-term market prices are at their lowest, and
AES Gener’s spot sales of electricity generated by their back-up facilities increase in periods of low water conditions, when short-term market prices are at their highest. Both extreme hydrological conditions provide AES Gener with improved
earnings and cash flow.

Successful execution and commencement of operation of AES Gener’s growth projects under
construction, currently Ventanas IV (Campiche) and Guacolda V is important to their financial performance. In accordance with AES Gener’s commercial contract strategy, in order to reduce their exposure to the potential imbalance between supply
and demand and ensure investment recovery, their policy is to contract a significant proportion of the new efficient project capacity under long-term energy supply contracts.

Colombia

Business Description.As of December 31, 2012,
AES Gener’s net power production in Colombia was 4,664 GWh (8% of the country’s total generation). The Chivor plant, a subsidiary of AES Gener, is a hydroelectric facility with installed capacity of 1,000 MW, located approximately 160 km
east of Bogota. The installed capacity represents approximately 7% of system capacity as of December 31, 2012. The plant consists of eight 125 MW dam-based hydroelectric generating units in two separate sub-facilities. Because all of
Chivor’s installed capacity in Colombia is hydroelectric, they are dependent on the prevailing hydrological conditions in the region in which they operate. Hydrological conditions largely influence generation and the short-term prices at which
they sell Chivor’s non-contracted generation in Colombia.

Chivor’s commercial strategy focuses on selling
between 75% and 85% of the annual expected output under contracts, principally with distribution companies, in order to provide cash flow stability. These bilateral contracts with distribution companies are awarded in public bids and normally last
from one to three years. The remaining generation is sold on the short-term market to other generation and trading companies at the system marginal cost, allowing us to maximize the operating margin during optimal price conditions.

Additionally, Chivor receives reliability payments for the availability and reliability of Chivor’s reservoir during periods of
scarcity, such as adverse hydrological conditions. These payments, referred to as “reliability charge payments” are designed to compensate generation companies for the firm energy that they are capable of providing to the system during
critical periods of low supply in order to prevent electricity shortages.

Market Structure

Electricity supply in Colombia is concentrated in one main system, the National Interconnected System (“SIN”). The SIN
encompasses one-third of Colombia’s territory, providing coverage to 96% of the country’s population. The SIN’s installed capacity totaled 14,533 MW as of December 31, 2012, composed of 67% hydroelectric generation, 31%
thermoelectric generation and 2% other. The dominance of hydroelectric generation and the marked seasonal variations in Colombia’s hydrology result in price volatility in the short-term market. In 2012, 80% of total energy demand was supplied
by hydroelectric plants with the remaining supply from thermoelectric generation (19%) and cogeneration and self-generation power (1%). From 2002 to 2012,







electricity demand in the SIN has grown at a compound annual growth rate of 2.9% and the Mining and Energetic Planning Unit (“UPME”) projects an average annual compounded growth
rate in electricity demand of 4% per year for the next ten years.

Regulatory Framework

Electricity Regulation.Since 1994, the electricity sector in Colombia has operated as a competitive market framework for the
generation and sale of electricity and a regulated framework for transmission and distribution. The distinct activities of the electricity sector are governed by various laws and the regulations and technical standards issued by the Energy and Gas
Regulation Commission (“CREG”). Other government entities which play an important role in the electricity industry include: the Ministry of Mines and Energy, which defines the government’s policy for the energy sector; the Public
Utility Superintendency of Colombia, which is in charge of overseeing and inspecting the utility companies; and the UPME, which is in charge of planning the expansion of the generation and transmission network.

The generation sector is organized on a competitive basis with companies selling their generation in the wholesale market at the
short-term price or under bilateral contracts with other participants, including distribution companies, generators and traders, and unregulated customers at freely negotiated prices. Generation companies must submit price bids and report the
quantity of energy available on a daily basis. The National Dispatch Center dispatches generators in merit order based on bid offers in order to ensure that demand will be satisfied by the lowest cost combination of available generating units.

Other Regulatory Considerations.In the past few years, Colombian authorities have discussed proposals to make certain
regulatory changes. One proposal is to replace or complement the current public auction system in which each distribution company holds an auction for its specific requirements and subsequently executes bilateral contracts with generation or trading
companies, with a centralized auction in which the market administrator purchases energy for all distribution companies. Additionally, a proposal has been discussed which would allow authorities to dictate emergency energy situations, in cases such
as severe drought conditions, in order to implement measures to prevent shortages and other negative economic impacts.

Key
Financial Drivers

Hydrological conditions largely influence Chivor’s generation level. Maintaining the appropriate
contract level, while working to maximize revenue, through sale of excess generation, is key to Chivor’s results of operations.

Argentina

Our Business.As of December 31, 2012, AES
Argentina’s net power production in the Argentine Interconnected System (“SADI”) totaled 14,426 GWh, representing 11% of the SADI’s total generation. AES Argentina operates 3,573 MW which represents 11% of country’s total
installed capacity, making us the third-largest generator. The installed capacity in the SADI includes the TermoAndes plant, a subsidiary of AES Gener, which is connected both to the SADI and the Chilean SING. AES Argentina has a diversified
generationportfolio of ten generation facilities, comprised of 62% thermoelectric and 38% hydroelectric capacity. All of the thermoelectric capacity has the capability to burn alternative fuels. Approximately 69% of the thermoelectric
capacity can operate alternatively with natural gas or diesel oil and the remaining 31% can operate alternatively with natural gas or fuel oil.

AES Argentina sells its production to customers on the short-term market, where prices are largely regulated. In 2012, approximately 80% of the energy was sold on the short-term market and 20% was under
contract. Short-term prices are determined in Argentine pesos by the Wholesale Electric Market Administrator (“CAMMESA”) and have been frozen at approximately $120 pesos per MWh for the past three years.







All of the thermoelectric facilities have the ability to use natural gas and receive gas
supplied through contracts with Argentine producers. In recent years, gas supply restrictions in Argentina, particularly during the southern cone’s winter season, have affected some of the plants, specifically the TermoAndes plant which is
connected to the SING by a transmission line owned by AES Gener. The TermoAndes plant commenced operations in 2000, selling exclusively into the Chilean SING. In 2008, following requirements of the Argentine authorities, TermoAndes connected its two
gas turbines to the SADI, while maintaining its steam turbine connected to the SING. However, since mid-December 2011, TermoAndes has been selling the plant’s full capacity in the SADI. TermoAndes’ electricity permit to export to the SING
expired on January 31, 2013 and potential renewal is being evaluated.

Market Structure.The SADI electricity
market is managed by CAMMESA. As of December 31, 2012, the installed capacity of the SADI totaled 31,139 MW. In 2012, 66% of total energy demand was supplied by thermoelectric plants, 29% by hydroelectric plants and 5% from nuclear, wind and
solar plants.

Thermoelectric generation in the SADI is principally fueled by natural gas. However, since 2004, and due to
natural gas shortages, in addition to increasing electricity demand, the use of alternative fuels in thermoelectric generation, such as oil and coal has increased. Given that the cost of these fuels is generally higher than natural gas, the extra
cost or “dispatch surcharge”, is currently reimbursed by CAMMESA, by including the surcharge in the energy margin paid to generators in order to compensate them for the cost of fuel. CAMMESA publishes reference prices on a biweekly basis
for each type of fuel, capping the maximum price to be paid by generators.

Given the importance of hydroelectric facilities
in the SADI, hydrological conditions determining river flow volumes and initial water levels in reservoirs largely influence hydroelectric and thermoelectric plant dispatch. Rainfall occurs principally in the southern cone winter season (June to
August).

Regulatory Framework

Electricity Regulation.The Argentine regulatory framework divides the electricity sector into generation, transmission and distribution. The wholesale electric market is made up of generation
companies, transmission companies, distribution companies and large customers who are allowed to buy and sell electricity. Generation companies can sell their output in the short-term market or to customers in the contract market. The wholesale
electric market is administrated by CAMMESA, which is responsible for dispatch coordination and determination of short-term prices. The Electricity National Regulatory Agency is in charge of regulating public service activities and the Ministry of
Federal Planning, Public Investment and Services, through the Energy Secretariat, regulates system dispatch and grants concessions or authorizations for sector activities.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations







Key Financial Drivers

Potential changes in regulations, especially changes related to a “revenue requirement” pricing scheme or a change to the coal
rule, which establishes the margin for AES Argentina’s San Nicolas plant, are key drivers for the Argentina business. The ability to contract sales with unregulated customers at TermoAndes and obtain the natural gas required to supply the
contracts is another area of focus for the business. Macroeconomic conditions, further regulatory changes, and AES Argentina’s ability to collect on receivables, including FONINVEMEM and future receivables, impact operating performance and cash
flow. Finally, hydrological conditions largely determine our plants’ dispatch.

Brazil SBU

Our Brazil SBU has generation and distribution facilities. Our Brazil operations accounted for 26%, 45% and 45% of consolidated AES gross
margin and 15%, 23% and 25% of consolidated AES adjusted PTC (a non-GAAP measure) in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The percentages shown are the contribution by each SBU to gross adjusted PTC, i.e. the total adjusted PTC by SBU, before
deductions for Corporate.





The following table provides highlights of our Brazil operations:



Generation Capacity3,298 gross MW (932 proportional
MW)Utilities Penetration7.7 million customers (54,408 GWh)Generation Facilities13Utilities Businesses2Key Generation BusinessesTietê and UruguaianaKey Utility BusinessesEletropaulo and
Sul

Generation.Operating installed capacity of our Brazil SBU totals 2,658 MW in AES Tietê
plants, located in the State of São Paulo. Tietê represents approximately 11%, as of December 2012, of the total generation capacity in the State of São Paulo and is the second largest private generator in Brazil. We also have
another generation plant, AES Uruguaiana, located in the South of Brazil with a installed capacity of 640 MW.

Set forth in
the table below is a list of our Brazil SBU generation facilities:



BusinessLocationFuelGrossMWAES EquityInterest(Percent,Rounded)YearAcquiredor BeganOperationTietê(1)BrazilHydro2,65824%1999UruguaianaBrazilGas64046%2000Brazil Total3,298









(1)Tietê plants with installed capacity: Água Vermelha (1,396 MW), Bariri (143 MW), Barra Bonita (141 MW), Caconde (80 MW), Euclides da Cunha
(109 MW), Ibitinga (132 MW), Limoeiro (32 MW), Mogi-Guaçu (7 MW), Nova Avanhandava (347 MW), Promissão (264 MW), Sao Joaquim (3 MW) and Sao Jose (4 MW).

Distribution.AES owns interests in two distribution facilities in Brazil. Eletropaulo operates in the
metropolitan area of São Paulo and adjacent regions, distributing electricity to 24 municipalities in a total area of 4,526 km2, covering a region of high demographic density and the largest concentration of GDP in the country. It is the largest
power distributor in Latin America serving approximately 16.6 million people and 6.5 million consumer units.

AES Sul is responsible for supplying electricity to 118 municipalities of the metropolitan region of Porto Alegre to the border with Uruguay and Argentina in a total area of 99,512 km2, serving approximately 3.3 million people and 1.24 million
consumer units.

Set forth in the table below is a list of our Brazil SBU distribution facilities:



BusinessLocationApproximateNumber ofCustomersServed as of12/31/2012GWhSold in2012AES EquityInterest(Percent,Rounded)YearAcquiredEletropauloBrazil6,483,00045,55716%1998SulBrazil1,240,0008,851100%19977,723,00054,408

The following map illustrates the location of our Brazil facilities:











Brazil Businesses

Business Description

Generation.Tietê is a portfolio of 12 hydroelectric power plants, with total installed capacity of 2,658 MW in the state of São Paulo. Tietê was privatized in 1999 under a
30-year concession expiring in 2029. AES owns a 24% economic interest, our partner the Brazilian Development Bank (“BNDES”) owns 28% and the remaining shares are publicly held or held by government-related entities. AES is the controlling
shareholder and manages and consolidates this business.

Tietê sells 100% of its assured capacity to Eletropaulo under a
long-term PPA, which is expiring in December 2015. After that, Tiete’s strategy is to contract 95% of this energy and the remaining portion is to be sold in the short-term market. The contract is price-adjusted annually for inflation (IGP-M).
Current regulated auctions for similar energy are clearing at prices that are below our existing contract prices.

Under the
concession agreement, Tietê had an obligation to increase its capacity by 15% by 2007, with no penalty imposed for lack of compliance, although there is a legal case initiated by the state of Sao Paulo requiring the investment to be performed.
Tietê, as well as other concessionaire generators, was not able to meet this requirement due to regulatory, environmental, hydrological and fuel constraints. Tietê is in the process of analyzing options to meet the obligation.

Uruguaiana is a 640 MW gas-fired combined cycle power plant commissioned in December 2000. AES manages and owns a 46%
economic interest and the remaining is held by BNDES. The facility is located in the town of Uruguaiana in the state of Rio Grande do Sul. The plant’s operations were suspended in April 2009 due to unavailability of gas. However the facility
resumed operations on February 8, 2013 and expects to continue for 60 days due to a recently secured short-term supply of LNG for the facility. At the first stage, the thermal plant will operate with capacity of approximately 164 MW. Uruguaiana
is working to secure gas on a long-term basis, to operate at the plant’s full capacity.

Distribution .Eletropaulo distributes electricity to 24 municipalities that compose the Greater São Paulo, including the capital of São Paulo State, Brazil’s main economic and financial center. The Company is the largest electric power
distributor in Latin America in terms of both revenues and volume of energy distribution.

AES owns 16% of the
economic interest of Eletropaulo, our partner, BNDES, owns 19% and the remaining shares are publicly held or held by government-related entities. AES is the controlling shareholder and manages and consolidates this business. Eletropaulo holds a
30-year concession that expires in 2028.

Sul distributes electricity in 118 municipalities in the metropolitan region of
Porto Alegre up to the frontier with Uruguay and Argentina, respectively, in the municipalities of Santana do Livramento and Uruguaiana/São Borja at the extreme west of the state of Rio Grande do Sul. AES owns 100% of the economic interest
and manages this business under a 30-year concession expiring in 2027.

Market Structure

Tietê is one of many generators in the 117,000 MW installed capacity system comprising approximately 75% of the market with
regulated customers and the remainder with free customers. Of this total system installed capacity, 78% is hydroelectric, 16% is thermoelectric and 6% is from renewable sources (biomass and wind).

Regulatory Framework

The Brazilian power sector has a number of different regulatory bodies, the most relevant of which are: (i) the Minister of Mines and Energy (“MME”), which is the government’s main
energy policy maker; (ii) the Energy Planning Enterprise (“EPE”), which is the government’s agency for the long-term planning of the







country’s generation and transmission systems expansion to ensure high reliability of supply at the lowest possible cost; (iii) ANEEL, which is the agency that runs the day-to-day
execution of the government’s policies, including tariff adjustments and periodic tariff resets for distribution; and (iv) the National System Operator (“ONS”), which is responsible for coordinating and controlling the operation
of the national grid.

Electricity
Regulation.In Brazil, MME determines the maximum amount of energy that a plant can sell “assured energy”, which represents the long-term average expected energy production of the plant. Under the current rules, the plant’s
assured energy can be sold to the distribution companies through long-term (regulated) auctions or under unregulated bilateral contracts with large consumers or energy trading companies.

Under the power sector model, a distribution company is obligated to contract 100% of the anticipated energy needs through the regulated
auction market. The regulated utilities can pass through the amounts contracted up to 103% of their load. If the company is contracted below 99% of its projected load, there is no pass-through mechanism for the energy purchased below that limit.

ANEEL sets the tariff for each distribution company, which is based on Return on Asset Base methodology that also benchmarks
operational costs against other distribution companies.

The tariff charged to regulated customers consists of two elements:
(i) full pass through of non-manageable costs (“Parcel A”), which includes energy purchase costs, sector charges and transmission and distribution system expenses; and (ii) a manageable cost component (“Parcel B”),
which includes operation and maintenance costs (defined by ANEEL), recovery of assets and a component for the value added by the distributor (calculated as the net asset base multiplied by the regulatory pre-tax weighted average cost of capital).

For distribution companies, a tariff reset occurs every four to five years, depending on the specific business.
Eletropaulo’s tariff reset occurs every four year and the next tariff reset will be in July 2015. Sul’s tariff resets every five years and the current rate will be set for another five years in April 2013.

In addition to tariff reset, Parcel A is reviewed and adjusted once a year. Parcel B is adjusted once every year reflecting inflation
offset by X-Factor to capture windfall gains from volume sales growth.

Distribution companies could also be entitled to
extraordinary tariff revisions, subject to ANEEL approval, in the event of significant and proven loss of the economic and financial equilibrium.







Eletropaulo has ongoing discussions with the regulator in the administrative level regarding
the parameters of the tariff reset applied in July 2012, retroactive to July 2011. The main discussions involve the shielded regulatory asset base and whether adjustments should be made to it, the amount of investments made by the company that were
not included in the tariff and the benchmark used for regulatory losses .

During 2012, Eletropaulo received two infraction
notices from ANEEL, relating to the financial audit of its fixed assets. The notices allege non-conformities in the regulatory accounting applied by Eletropaulo to the fixed assets and non-conformities in the regulatory asset base, both of which
impact the regulatory asset base used to calculate the tariff charged to customers. Management has filed appeals contesting the alleged non-conformities and fines imposed, and are awaiting responses. Management has recognized its best estimate of
the probable loss as of December 31, 2012. There can be no assurances that additional losses may be necessary which could have a material impact on our results of operations.

For Sul, the tariff reset for the next five years, will occur in April 2013. ANEEL opened a public hearing on February 5, 2013,
which is expected to run until March 8, 2013 to discuss the rates. Although we believe Sul should receive a fair and reasonable tariff, there can be no assurances made around the outcome of the process. In the event that the tariff reset is
below our expectations, there could be a material impact on our results of operations.

Key Financial Drivers

As the system is highly dependent on hydroelectric generation, Brazil SBU generation companies are affected by the
hydrology in the overall sector, as well as availability of Tiete’s plants and reliability of the Uruguaiana facility. The availability of gas for continued operations is a driver for Uruguaiana.

For Brazil SBU distribution companies, the demand for electricity is affected by economic activity, weather patterns and customers’
consumption behavior. Further, AES Sul is focused on working with stakeholders to determine a fair and reasonable outcome for the tariff reset scheduled to be implemented in April 2013. Finally, the distribution companies’ operating performance
is driven by the quality of service and ability to control non-technical losses.







MCAC SBU

Our MCAC SBU has a portfolio of distribution businesses and generation facilities, including renewable energy, in six countries, with a
total capacity of 3,860 MW and distribution networks serving more than 1.2 million customers as of December 31, 2012. MCAC operations accounted for 15%, 13% and 12% of consolidated AES gross margin and 18%, 17% and 17% of consolidated AES
adjusted PTC (a non-GAAP measure) in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The percentages shown are the contribution by each SBU to gross adjusted PTC, i.e. the total adjusted PTC by SBU, before deductions for Corporate.





The following table provides highlights of our MCAC SBU operations:



CountriesDominican Republic, El Salvador,
Mexico, Panama , Puerto Rico and TrinidadGeneration Capacity3,860 gross MW (2,585 proportional MW)Utilities Penetration1.2 million customers (3,642 GWh)Generation Facilities16Utilities Businesses4Key Generation BusinessesAndres, Panama and TEG TEPKey Distribution
BusinessesEl Salvador







The total operating installed capacity of our MCAC SBU is distributed 27%, 22%, 18% and 14%
in Mexico, Dominican Republic, Panama and Puerto Rico, respectively. The table below lists our MCAC SBU facilities:



BusinessLocationFuelGrossMWAES EquityInterest(Percent,Rounded)YearAcquiredor BeganOperationAndresDominican RepublicGas319100%2003Itabo(1)Dominican RepublicCoal/Gas29550%2000DPP (Los Mina)Dominican RepublicGas236100%1996Dominican Republic Subtotal850AES NejapaEl SalvadorLandfill Gas6100%2011El Salvador Subtotal6Merida IIIMexicoGas50555%2000Termoelectrica del Golfo (TEG)MexicoPet Coke27599%2007Termoelectrica del Penoles (TEP)MexicoPet Coke27599%2007Mexico Subtotal1,055BayanoPanamaHydro26049%1999ChanguinolaPanamaHydro223100%2011Chiriqui—EstiPanamaHydro12049%2003Chiriqui—Los VallesPanamaHydro5449%1999Chiriqui—La EstrellaPanamaHydro4849%1999Panama Subtotal705Puerto RicoUS—PRCoal524100%2002Puerto Rico Subtotal524TrinidadTrinidadGas72010%2011-2012Trinidad Subtotal720MCAC Total3,860



(1)Itabo plants: Itabo complex (two coal-fired steam turbines and one gas-fired steam turbine).

MCAC Utilities.The Company’s MCAC utilities in El Salvador are reported within “Corporate and Other” because they
do not require separate disclosure under segment reporting accounting guidance. See Item 7.—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operationsfor further discussion of the Company’s
segment structure used for financial reporting purposes.

Our distribution businesses are located in El Salvador and
distribute power to more than 1.2 million people in the country. This business consists of 4 companies, each of which operates in defined service areas as described in the table below:



BusinessLocationApproximateNumber ofCustomersServed as of12/31/2012GWhSold in2012AES EquityInterest(Percent,Rounded)YearAcquiredCAESSEl Salvador558,0002,16075%2000CLESAEl Salvador342,00085264%1998DEUSEMEl Salvador68,00011974%2000EEOEl Salvador260,00051189%20001,228,0003,642







The following map illustrates the location of our MCAC facilities:





MCAC Businesses

Mexico

Business Description.We have an installed capacity
of 1,055 MW, which consists of 550 MW from self-supply generation, a regulation that allows qualifying industrial entities to generate their own electricity for a lower cost and security of supply, and 505 MW as an Independent Power Producer
(“IPP”). All three units are baseload and run all year.

The 550 MW self-supply facility comprised of
Termoeléctrica del Golfo (“TEG”) and Termoeléctrica Peñoles (“TEP”), located in San Luis Potosi, Mexico. The plants supply power to their offtakers under long-term PPAs that have a 90% availability guarantee.
TEG and TEP secure their fuel (pet coke) under a long-term contract.

AES Merida III (“Merida”) is a 505 MW IPP
generation facility. The facility is a combined-cycle gas turbine (“CCGT”) with the ability to use dual fuel technology located in Merida, on Mexico’s Yucatan peninsula. Merida consists of two combustion turbines that can burn natural
gas or diesel fuel and two heat recovery steam generators and a single steam turbine. Under the Electric Public Service Law, Merida sells power exclusively to the Federal Commission of Electricity (“CFE”) as an IPP under a long-term PPA
with a contractual net 484 MW. Additionally, the plant purchases natural gas and diesel fuel under a long-term contract, the cost of which is then passed through to CFE under the terms of the PPA.

Market Structure

Mexico has a single national electricity grid, the National Power System (“SEN”), covering nearly all of Mexico’s territory. Mexico has an installed capacity totaling 53 GW with a
generation mix of 62% thermal, 22% hydroelectric and 16% other. Electricity consumption is split between the following end users: industrial (59%), residential (26%) and commercial and service (15%).







Regulatory Framework

The CFE, which is mandated by the Mexican Constitution, is the state-owned electric monopoly which operates the national grid and
generates electricity for the public. CFE regulates wholesale tariffs, which are largely set by the marginal production cost of oil and gas-fired generation. The Mexican energy system is fully integrated under the sole responsibility of CFE. The
Electrical Public Service Law allows privately owned projects to produce electricity for self-supply application and/or IPP structures.

Private parties are allowed to invest in certain activities in Mexico’s electrical power market, and obtain permits from the Ministry of Energy for: (i) generating power for self-supply;
(ii) generating power through co-generation processes; (iii) generating power through independent production; (iv) small-scale production; and (v) importing and exporting electrical power. Permit holders are required to enter
into PPAs with the CFE to sell all surplus power produced. Mérida provides power exclusively to CFE under a long-term contract. TEG/TEP provides the majority of its output to two offtakers under long-term contracts, and can sell any excess or
surplus energy produced to CFE at a predetermined day-ahead price.

Key Financial Drivers

Plant availability is the largest single performance driver of this business. Additionally, AES’ Mexican businesses benefit from the
wholesale price margin versus pet coke costs for any sales greater than the guaranteed output.

Panama

Business Description. AES represents 29% of the installed capacity and almost 30% of the firm capacity in
Panama. We own and operate a total of five hydroelectric plants, totaling 705 MW of installed capacity. The portfolio is a mix of run-of-river facilities and reservoir facilities. Changuinola is a wholly owned subsidiary. The other four plants are
owned jointly by AES (49%), the Republic of Panama (50.4%) and minority shareholders (0.6%).

In the short—to
medium-term, AES Panama has approximately 90% of its firm capacity contracted with distribution companies, while large customers account for sales volumes representing 7% of the portfolio. The balance of AES Panama’s contracts are with the
three distribution companies. Currently, there are no over-the-counter or forward products available to AES Panama for hedging electricity.

Market Structure.Panama’s current total installed capacity is 2,427 MW, of which 58% is hydroelectric and 42% is thermal. Thermal generation facilities in the country run on diesel, bunker
fuel, and coal. Panama’s total firm capacity is currently 1,632 MW. For hydroelectric plants, firm capacity is based upon the amount of energy that a unit can generate in the eight peak hours of the day, calculated on the basis of hydrological
flows.

The Panamanian electrical sector is composed of three distinct operating business units: generation, distribution and
transmission, all of which are governed by the Electric Law 6 enacted in 1997. Generators can enter into long-term PPAs with distributors or unregulated consumers. In addition, generators can enter into alternative supply contracts with each other.
The terms of PPAs are determined through a competitive bidding process and are governed by the Commercial Rules. Outside of the PPA market, generators may buy and sell energy in the short-term market. Energy sold in the short-term market corresponds
to the hourly difference between the actual dispatch of energy by each generator and its contractual commitments to supply energy. The National Dispatch Center (“CND”) merit order dispatch and water value and sets the energy short-term
price on an hourly basis according to this merit order.

Regulatory Framework.The National Secretary of Energy
(“SNE”) has the responsibilities of planning, supervising and controlling policies of the energy sector within Panama. With these responsibilities, the SNE proposes laws and regulations to the executive agencies that promote the
procurement of electrical energy, hydrocarbons and alternative energy for the country.







The regulator of public services, known as the National Authority of Public Services
(“ASEP”) is an autonomous agency of the government. ASEP is responsible for the control and oversight of public services including electricity and the transmission and distribution of natural gas utilities and the companies that provide
such services.

Generators can only contract their firm capacity. Physical generation of energy is determined by the CND
regardless of contractual arrangements.

Key Financial Drivers

The seasonal effect of the hydrologic inflows affects generation and therefore gross margin. During the low inflow period (January to May)
generation tends to be lower and AES Panama may purchase energy in the short-term market to cover contractual obligations. The rest of the year (June to December) their generation tends to be higher and they may sell energy in excess of their
contracts to the short-term market. Hydrology and commodity prices are a risk to the Panama business. Hydrology affects the amount of generation and commodity prices affect the opportunity cost of the hydroelectric generation facilities with a
reservoir. Both variables affect the short-term price, and during periods of low hydrology and high fuel price, the business can be negatively affected.

Dominican Republic

Business Description.AES Dominicana
consists of its operating subsidiaries Andres, Dominican Power Partners (“DPP”) and Itabo. Andres and DPP are both wholly-owned subsidiaries of AES, while Itabo is 50%-owned by AES, 49.97% owned by FONPER, a government-owned utility and
the remaining 0.03% is owned by employees. AES has 28% of the system capacity (850 MW) and supplies approximately 40% of energy demand through its three generation facilities.

Andres has a combined cycle gas turbine and generation capacity of 319 MW and the only LNG import facility in the country. DPP (Los Mina) has two open cycle natural gas turbines and generation capacity of
236 MW. Both companies have in aggregate 555 MW of installed capacity of which 450 MW is contracted until 2017 with the government-owned distribution companies and non-regulated users. Itabo owns and operates two thermal power generation units with
295 MW of installed capacity in total. Itabo’s PPAs are with the government-owned distribution companies and expire in 2016.

AES Dominicana has a long-term LNG purchase contract, which expires in 2023, with the price linked to NYMEX Henry Hub, which translates into a competitive advantage as we are currently purchasing LNG at
prices lower than those on the international market. In 2005, Andres entered into a contract to sell re-gasified LNG for further distribution to industrial users within the Dominican Republic, using compression technology to transport it within the
country. In January 2010, the first LNG truck tanker loading terminal started operations. With this investment, AES is capturing demand from industrial and commercial customers.

Market Structure

Electricity Market.The Dominican Republic has one main interconnected system with approximately 3,000 MW of installed capacity, composed primarily of thermal generation (85%), and hydroelectric
power plants (15%).

Natural Gas Market. The natural gas market in the Dominican Republic was developed in 2001 when
AES entered into a long-term contract for LNG and constructed AES Dominicana’s LNG regasification terminal.







Regulatory Framework

The regulatory framework in the Dominican Republic consists of a decentralized industry including generation, transmission and
distribution, with regulated prices in transmission and distribution, and a competitive wholesale generation market. All electric companies (generators, transmission and distributors), are subject to and regulated by the General Electricity Law
(“GEL”).

Two main agencies are responsible for monitoring and ensuring compliance with the GEL. The National Energy
Commission (“CNE”) is in charge of drafting and coordinating the legal framework and regulatory legislation; proposing and adopting policies and procedures to assure best practices; drafting plans to ensure the proper functioning and
development of the energy sector; and promoting investment. The Superintendence of Electricity’s (“SIE”) main responsibilities include monitoring and supervising compliance with legal provisions and rules and monitoring compliance
with the technical procedures governing generation, transmission, distribution and commercialization of electricity, and supervising electric market behavior in order to avoid monopolistic practices.

The electricity tariff applicable to regulated customers is subject to regulation within the concessions of the distribution companies.
Clients with demand above 1.2 MW are classified as unregulated customers and their tariffs are unregulated.

Fuels and
hydrocarbons are regulated by a specific law, which establishes prices to end customers and a tax on consumption of fossil fuels. For natural gas there are regulations related to the procedures to be followed to grant licenses and concession: i)
distribution, including transportation and loading and compression plant; ii) the installation and operation of natural gas stations, including consumers and potential modifications of existing facilities; and iii) conversion equipment suppliers for
vehicles. The regulation is administered by the Industrial and Commerce Ministry (“ICM”) who supervises commercial and industrial activities in the Dominican Republic as well as the fuels and natural gas commercialization to the end users.

Key Financial Drivers

The financial weakness of the three state-owned distribution companies is due to low collection rate and high levels of non-technical losses and the delay in payments for the electricity supplied by
generators. At times when outstanding balances have accumulated, AES Dominicana has accepted payment through other means, such as government bonds, in order to reduce their outstanding receiveables. There can be no guarantee that alternative
collection methodologies will always be an avenue available for payment options.

The supply and price of fuel is actively
managed to meet forecasted dispatch, comply with physical obligations to offtakers, and provide flexibility with negotiated contractual terms to redirect supply and cover proper credit requirements.

Other SBU Businesses

Puerto Rico

AES Puerto Rico is a coal-fired cogeneration plant utilizing
Circulating Fluidized Bed Boiler (“CFB”) technology. We have installed capacity that represents approximately 14% of the system capacity. The baseload plant is a Qualifying Facility under the U.S. PURPA. The Puerto Rico Electric Power
Authority (“PREPA”), a public corporation that operates as a state-owned monopoly, governs Puerto Rico’s electric market. PREPA supplies virtually all of the electric power consumed in the Commonwealth and generates, transmits and
distributes electricity to 1.5 million customers. PREPA is governed by the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act. PREPA purchases 454 MW of dependable generating capacity from our AES Puerto Rico coal-fired cogeneration facility located in
Guayama under a long-term PPA, which expires in 2027. AES Puerto Rico represents a low-cost energy alternative for PREPA and reduces its current dependency on oil for energy production with our CFB technology plant.







El Salvador

AES is the majority owner of four of the five distribution companies operating in El Salvador: CAESS, with about 40% market share; CLESA, with 16% market share; EEO, with 9% market share; and DEUSEM, with
2% market share. The distribution companies are operated by AES on an integrated basis under a single management team. AES El Salvador’s territory covers 80% of the country. AES El Salvador accounted for 3,888 GWh of market energy purchases
during 2012, or about 66% market share of the country’s total market energy purchases of 5,883 GWh.

The sector is
governed by the General Electricity Law, and the general and specific orders issued by Superintendencia General de Electricidad y Telecomunicacions (“SIGET” or “The Regulator”). The Regulator, jointly with the distribution
companies in El Salvador, completed the tariff reset process in December 2012 and defined the tariff calculation to be applicable for the next five years (2013-2017).

EMEA SBU

Our EMEA SBU has generation facilities in nine counties
and distribution utilities in three countries. Our EMEA operations accounted for 17%, 10% and 11% of AES consolidated gross margin and 20%, 16% and 15% of AES consolidated adjusted PTC (a non-GAAP measure) in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The
percentages shown are the contribution by each SBU to gross adjusted PTC, i.e. the total adjusted PTC by SBU, before deductions for Corporate.





The following table provides highlights of our EMEA operations:



CountriesBulgaria, Cameroon, Jordan,
Kazakhstan, Netherlands, Nigeria, Spain, Turkey, Ukraine and United KingdomGeneration Capacity9,396 gross MW (6,100 proportional MW)Utilities Penetration2.2 million customers (11,235 GWh)Generation Facilities25 (including 4 under construction)Utilities Businesses4Key Generation
BusinessesMaritza, Kazakhstan, Kilroot,
Ballylumford and Ebute







Operating installed capacity of our EMEA SBU totaled 9,396 MW, of which 29%, 21% and 11% is
located in Kazakhstan, United Kingdom and Cameroon, respectively. Set forth in the table below is a list of our EMEA SBU generation facilities:



BusinessLocationFuelGrossMWAES EquityInterest(Percent,Rounded)YearAcquiredor BeganOperationMaritzaBulgariaCoal690100%2011St. NikolaBulgariaWind15689%2010Bulgaria Subtotal846DibambaCameroonHeavy Fuel Oil8656%2009Cameroon Subtotal86Amman EastJordanGas38037%2009Jordan Subtotal380Ust—Kamenogorsk CHPKazakhstanCoal1,354100%1997Shulbinsk HPP(1)KazakhstanHydro7020%1997Ust—Kamenogorsk HPP(1)KazakhstanHydro3310%1997Sogrinsk CHPKazakhstanCoal301100%1997Kazakhstan Subtotal2,688Elsta(2)NetherlandsGas63050%1998Netherlands Subtotal630EbuteNigeriaGas29495%2001Nigeria Subtotal294Cartagena(2),(3)SpainGas1,19914%2006Spain Subtotal1,199Kocaeli(2),(4)TurkeyGas15850%2011Bursa(2),(4)TurkeyGas15650%2011Kepezkaya(2),(4)TurkeyHydro2850%2010Kumkoy(2),(4)TurkeyHydro1850%2011Damlapinar(2),(4)TurkeyHydro1650%2010Istanbul (Koc University)(2),(4)TurkeyGas250%2011Turkey Subtotal378BallylumfordUnited KingdomGas1,246100%2010Kilroot(5)United KingdomCoal/Oil66299%1992Drone HillUnited KingdomWind29100%2012North RhinsUnited KingdomWind22100%2010United Kingdom Subtotal1,959EMEA Total8,460



(1)AES operates these
facilities under concession agreements until 2017.

(2)Unconsolidated
entities, the results of operations of which are reflected in Equity in Earnings of Affiliates.

(3)In February 2012,
AES sold 80% of its interest in the business.

(4)Joint Venture with
Koc Holding.

(5)Includes Kilroot
Open Cycle Gas Turbine (“OCGT”).







Under construction



BusinessLocationFuelGrossMWAES EquityInterest(Percent,Rounded)ExpectedYear ofCommercialOperationKribiCameroonGas21656%2013Cameroon Subtotal216IPP4 JordanJordanHeavy Fuel Oil24760%2014Jordan Subtotal247Sixpenny WoodUnited KingdomWind20100%2013YelvertoftUnited KingdomWind16100%2013United Kingdom Subtotal36EMEA Total499

Set forth below is a list of our EMEA utility businesses:



BusinessLocationApproximateNumber ofCustomersServed as of12/31/2012GWhSold in2012AES EquityInterest(Percent,Rounded)YearAcquiredSonelCameroon816,0003,56956%2001Cameroon Subtotal816,0003,569Ust-Kamenogorsk Heat Nets(1)Kazakhstan96,000—0%Kazakhstan Subtotal96,000—KievoblenergoUkraine882,0005,24889%2001RivneenergoUkraine412,0002,41884%2001Ukraine Subtotal1,294,0007,666EMEA Total2,206,00011,235



(1)AES operates these businesses through management agreements and owns no equity interest in these businesses. These agreements are due to expire in the
middle of 2013 and we intend to enter into discussions for extension. Ust-Kamenogorsk Heat Nets provide transmission, and distribution of heat, with a total heat generating capacity of 224 Gcal.

Set forth below is information on the generation facilities of Sonel:



BusinessLocationFuelGrossMWAES EquityInterest(Percent,Rounded)YearAcquiredor BeganOperationSonel(1)CameroonHydro/Diesel/Heavy Fuel Oil93656%2001



(1)Sonel plants: Bafoussam, Bassa, Djamboutou, Edéa, Lagdo, Limbé, Logbaba I, Logbaba II, Oyomabang I, Oyomabang II, Song Loulou, and other
small remote network units.







The following map illustrates the location of our EMEA facilities:





EMEA Businesses

Bulgaria

Business Description. Our Maritza plant is a 690 MW
lignite-fuel plant that was commissioned in June 2011. Maritza is the only coal-fired power plant in Bulgaria that is fully compliant with the EU Industrial Emission Directive, which comes into force in 2016. Maritza’s entire power output is
contracted with Natsionala Elektricheska Kompania (“NEK”) under a 15-year PPA, capacity and energy based, with a fuel pass-though. The lignite is supplied under a 15-year fuel supply contract.

AES also owns an 89% interest in the St. Nikola wind farm with 156 MW of installed capacity. St. Nikola was commissioned in March 2010.
Its entire power output is contracted with NEK under a 15-year PPA.

Market Structure

The maximum market capacity in 2012 was approximately 13 GW. In 2012 capacity increased significantly with the addition of approximately 1
GW of renewable energy capacity. Thermal power plants, representing 48% of total generation capacity and 53% of the total output, and the nuclear plant representing 16% of the total generation capacity and 35% of the total output, are the dominant
suppliers in the Bulgarian electricity market. Hydroelectric accounts for 23% of total capacity and 9% of total output.

Regulatory Framework

Electricity Regulation.The electricity sector in Bulgaria operates under the Energy Act 2004 that allows the sale of electricity to take place freely at negotiated prices, at regulated prices
between parties or on the organized market. In practice an organized market for trading electricity has not yet evolved, which leaves the regulated transactions market, the bilateral contracts market and the balancing market as the principal means
for the wholesale electricity. The regulated component of the wholesale electricity market remains significant mainly







driven by the government’s objectives to ensure low prices for protected consumers and to support the generation from renewable energy sources and cogeneration that is sold at feed-in tariff
rates.

In order to aid the creation of a competitive environment, the Bulgarian energy market has undergone a long
liberalization process since 2000 by unbundling NEK, a state-owned vertically integrated utility that was responsible for generation, transmission and distribution in the entire country. Distribution and a majority of generation assets were
separated and most of them privatized while NEK retained responsibility for the hydroelectric power plant assets and the ownership and operation of the transmission system. However, all these structural changes were not accompanied by the
development of a trading market and hence, to date, NEK remains the main wholesale buyer for power generated in Bulgaria.

In
connection with Bulgaria’s entry into the EU, the European Commission (the “Commission”) has opened an investigation into alleged anticompetitive behavior and possible restrictions of competition in the Bulgarian electricity markets.
The current focus of the Commission’s investigation is NEK. As part of its investigation, the Commission is attempting to determine whether NEK’s long-term contracts are anticompetitive, and could pose a problem with respect to the
liberalization of Bulgaria’s electricity markets. The long-term PPAs in the Bulgarian market account for less than 20% of total generation capacity. If the Commission determines that the PPAs are anticompetitive, they could take actions up to
and including termination of Maritza’s PPA, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition.

NEK is undergoing a restructuring process in order to comply with EU’s Third Energy package. As part of the restructuring it is expected that transmission system assets will be transferred from NEK
to Electricity System Operator (“ESO”) and that is expected to negatively impact the financial creditworthiness of NEK. If NEK is unable to keep the same credit rating as when they entered into the PPA, it could have an adverse impact on
the business’ financing arrangement.

Key Financial Drivers

Plant availability is the largest single performance driver of this business. Another key driver is NEK, the offtaker’s, ability to
meet the terms of the existing long-term PPA.

Kazakhstan

Business Description.Our businesses account for approximately 4% of the total annual generation in Kazakhstan. Of the total
capacity of 2,688 MW, 1,033 MW is hydroelectric that operates under a concession agreement until the beginning of October 2017 and 1,655 MW of coal-fired capacity is owned outright. The thermal plants are designed to produce heat with electricity as
a co—or by-product.

The Kazakhstan businesses act as merchant plants for electricity sales by entering into bilateral
contracts directly with consumers for periods of generally no more than one year. There are no opportunities for the plants to be in contracted status, as there is no central offtaker, and the few businesses that could take a whole plant’s
generation tend to have in-house generation capacity. The 2012 amendments to the Electricity Law state that a centrally organized capacity market will be established by 2016, but the offtaker still only signs annual contracts.

The hydroelectric plants are run-of-river and rely on river flow and precipitation (particularly snow). Due to the presence of a large
multi-year storage dam upstream and a growing season minimum river flow rate agreement with Russia (downstream) the plants are protected against significant downside risk to their volume in years with low precipitation.

Ust Kamenogorsk CHP provides heat to the city of Ust Kamenogorsk through the city heat network company (Ust Kamenogorsk Heat Nets). These
sales could be considered as contracted, since Ust Kamenogorsk Heat Nets has no alternative suppliers.







Market Structure

The Kazakhstan electricity market totals approximately 19,000 MW, of which 14,500 MW is available. The bulk of the generating capacity in
Kazakhstan is thermal, with coal as the main fuel. As coal is abundantly available in Kazakhstan, most plants are designed to burn local coal. The geographical remoteness of Kazakhstan, in combination with its abundant resources, means that coal
prices are not reflective of world coal prices (current delivered cost is less than $20 per metric ton). In addition, the Government closely monitors coal prices, due to their impact on the price of socially necessary heating and on electricity
tariffs.

Regulatory Framework

All Kazakhstan generating companies sell electricity at or below their respective tariff-cap level. These tariff-cap levels have been fixed by the Kazakhstan Ministry of Industry and New Technology
(“MINT”) for the period 2009-2015 for each of the thirteen groups of generators. These groups were determined by the MINT based on a number of factors including type of plant and fuel used.

In July 2012, Kazakhstan enacted various amendments to its Electricity Law. Among the amendments was a requirement for all profits
generated by electricity producers during the years 2013-2015 to be reinvested. Accordingly, the business will be unable to pay dividends for the period 2013-2015. Under the amended Electricity Law, electricity producers must, on an annual basis,
enter into investment obligation agreements (“IOA’s”) with the MINT detailing their annual investment obligations. These annual IOAs must equal the sum of the upcoming year’s planned depreciation and profit. Selection of
investment projects for the IOAs is at the discretion of electricity producers, but the MINT has the right to reject submitted IOA proposals. An electricity producer without an IOA executed by the MINT may not charge tariffs exceeding its
incremental cost of production, excluding depreciation. On December 20, 2012, the MINT executed IOA with all four AES generators in Kazakhstan, which allow revenue at the tariff-cap level, but all generated cash will need to be reinvested.

Heat production in Kazakhstan is also regulated as a natural monopoly. The heat tariffs are set on a cost-plus basis by
making an application to the Regulator (DAREM). Tariffs can either be for one-year or multi-year periods.

Key Financial
Drivers

The main business drivers are plant availability, tariff caps set by MINT and weather conditions.

Nigeria

Business Description.Our Ebute business of 294 MW operates under a capacity-based PPA contract with the state-owned entity Power Holding Company of Nigeria (“PHCN”), which expires in a
few years. Earnings are driven primarily by capacity payments paid under the PPA. It sells power generated by a nine unit barge-mounted gas turbine system, with fuel currently supplied by the offtaker. However, due to the ongoing PHCN privatization
process, in the future, Ebute will have to source its own fuel, although with the ability to pass some or all of its cost through the tariff.

Ebute’s cash flow is supported by a $60 million letter of credit issued by a credit-worthy institution in order to secure timely payment of amounts due to Ebute under the PPA. The letter of credit
may be drawn upon at any time for any overdue payment of 15 days and can be fully drawn if not renewed timely.

Market
Structure

Nigeria is currently characterized by significant underinvestment in the electricity sector, with only 3.2 GW of
dependable capacity. Businesses and higher income residents depend primarily on privately owned diesel







generators. The state-owned entity PHCN holds a large majority of the electricity market share, with private power generating companies accounting for the rest. The private power generating
companies are represented by three IPPs, one of which is AES Nigeria.

Regulatory Framework

The Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (“NERC”) is an independent regulatory agency that was established under the 2005
Reform Act to undertake both the technical and economic regulation of the Nigerian electricity sector. It is responsible for general oversight functions, including the licensing of operators, setting of tariffs and establishing industry standards
for future electricity sector development.

Two of the NERC’s key regulatory functions are licensing and tariff
regulation. On the basis of the current reforms embodied in the Nigeria Power Sector Reform Roadmap, a number of new regulatory and/or other governing bodies will be established to regulate the industry.

Key Financial Drivers

Plant availability is the single largest driver of Ebute’s financial performance.

United Kingdom

Business Description

AES’ generation businesses in the United Kingdom operate in two different markets – the Irish Single Electricity Market
(“SEM”) for the businesses located in Northern Ireland (1,908 MW) and UK wholesale electricity market for the businesses located in Scotland and England (87 MW).

The Northern Ireland generation facilities consist of two plants within the Belfast region. Our Kilroot plant is a 662 MW coal-fired plant, and our Ballylumford plant is a 1,246 MW gas-fired plant. These
plants provide approximately 78% of the Northern Ireland power demand and 18% of the combined demand for the island of Ireland. One of the Ballylumford stations of 540 MW does not meet the standards of the EU Industrial Emission Directive discussed
below, which will most likely result in closing at the end of 2015, unless further investment is committed.

Kilroot is a
merchant plant that bids into the SEM market and derives its value from the capacity payments offered through the SEM Capacity Payment Mechanism, the variable margin when scheduled in merit and the margin from constrained dispatch (when dispatched
out of merit to support the system in relation to the wind generation, voltage and transmission constraints). In addition to the above, value is also secured from ancillary services.

Ballylumford is partially contracted (600 MW) under a PPA with Northern Ireland Electricity (“NIE”) that ends in 2018 with an
extension at offtaker’s option to 2023, with the remaining capacity bid into the SEM market. Ballylumford derives its value, with an almost equal contribution, from availability payments received under the PPA and capacity payments offered
through the SEM Capacity Payment Mechanism. Additionally, Ballylumford receives revenue from constrained dispatch.

The
Scotland and England businesses consist of four wind generation facilities totaling approximately 87 MW, two of which are already in operation and two are due to come on line by the end of May 2013. A further pipeline of approximately 250 MW has
been submitted for permitting consents. The wind projects sell their power to licensed suppliers in the United Kingdom market under long-term PPAs for the full output, generating half of the revenues from the United Kingdom wholesale electricity
market and half from green certificates.







Market Structure

The majority of the generation capacity in the SEM is represented by gas-fired power plants, which results in market sensitivity to gas
prices. Wind generation capacity represents approximately 20% of the total generation capacity. The governments of Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland plan further increases in renewables. Market availability and liquidity of hedging
products is weak, reflecting the limited size and immaturity of the market, the predominance of vertical integration and lack of forward pricing. There are essentially three products (baseload, mid-merit and peaking) which are traded between the two
largest generators and suppliers.

Regulatory Framework

Electricity Regulation.The SEM is an energy market, which was established in 2007 and is completely distinct from the United
Kingdom power market. It is based on a gross mandatory pool, within which all generators with a capacity higher than 10 MW must trade the physical delivery of power. Generators are dispatched based on merit order.

In addition, there is a capacity payment mechanism to ensure that sufficient generating capacity is offered to the market. The capacity
payment is derived from a regulated Euro-based capacity payment pool, established a year ahead by the Regulatory Authority. Capacity payments are based on the declared availability of a unit and have a degree of volatility to reflect seasonal
influences, demand and the actual out-turn of generation declared available over each trading period.

Environmental
Regulation

The European Commission adopted in 2011 the Industrial Emission Directive
(“IED”) that establishes the emission limit values (“ELVs”) for SO2, NOx and dust emissions to be complied with starting in 2016. This affects our Kilroot business which currently complies with the dust ELV, but for the SO2, and particularly NOx, significant investment will be required.

The IED provides for two options that may be implemented by the EU member states – Transitional National Plan
(“TNP”) or Limited Life Time Derogation. The TNP would allow the power plants to continue to operate between 2016-2020, being exempt from compliance with ELVs, but observing a ceiling set for maximum annual emissions that is established
looking at the last 10 years average emissions and operating hours. Under the TNP, power plants will have to implement investment plans that will ensure compliance by 2020. The Limited Life Time Derogation will allow plants to run between 2016 and
2023, being exempt from the compliance with ELVs, but for no more than 17,500 hours.

Key Financial Drivers

For our business in the SEM market the key drivers are availability and commodity prices (gas and coal), and regulatory changes. The
contracted plants’ financial results are influenced by availability.

In the United Kingdom, part of our revenue stream
is indexed to short-term electricity market prices, which are largely influenced by delivered gas prices.

The future value of
the Northern Ireland businesses will depend on gas price volatility and any alterations to the SEM market structure and payment mechanism.

Other Businesses

With regard to our other businesses, in 2012 we sold 80%
of our interest in Cartagena, a 1,199 MW gas-fired plant in Spain operating under a long-term contract, and as a result Cartagena is reported as equity in earnings of affiliates.







In Turkey, we currently own in partnership with Koc Holding, 378 MW of hydroelectric and gas
plants. During 2012, we finalized the split of the joint venture with I.C. Energy on the hydroelectric assets, and following that, three hydroelectric plants were transferred into the partnership with Koc Holding. The Turkey hydro businesses fall
under the renewable feed-in tariff, while the gas assets are dispatched in the market. Our businesses in Turkey are operated under a joint venture structure; they are reported as equity in earnings of affiliates.

In Jordan we have a partial ownership in a 380 MW oil/gas-fired plant, fully contracted with the national utility under a 25-year PPA. In
2012, we concluded the financing for a platform expansion project, a 247 MW oil fired peaker that will start construction in the first quarter of 2013. The project is similar in structure with Amman East and is fully contracted with the national
utility under a 25-year PPA.

In Netherlands, we own 50% of Elsta facility, a 630 MW gas fired plant that supplies steam and
electricity under the long-term contracts ending 2018. Elsta’s income is reported as equity in earnings.

In Ukraine we
are involved in the distribution and sale of electricity through Kievoblenergo in which AES has 89% equity interest and Rivneenergo in which AES has 84% equity interest. The distribution and supply tariffs for all distribution companies in Ukraine
are established by the National Energy Regulatory Commission on an annual basis. In January 2013, AES signed a Sale Purchase Agreement for the sale of both Ukrainian distribution entities.

In Cameroon we are involved in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity through AES Sonel, an integrated
utility, and two Independent Power Producers (IPP).

We own 56% of AES Sonel with the remaining 44% held by the Republic of
Cameroon. AES Sonel is the only electricity provider in Cameroon. It is regulated by the Agence de Régulation de Secteur d’Electricité (ARSEL). AES Sonel operates and maintains 936 MW of generation, two interconnected transmission
networks and distributes electricity to more than 800,000 primarily residential customers. AES Sonel operates under a 20-year concession agreement that was signed in July 2001. Electricity demand has increased at an average annual rate of 6%, since
2001, and 7.5%, since 2010. Growth will continue especially in the residential segment.

In addition, AES is part owner and
sole operator of two IPPs; Dibamba Power Development Company (“DPDC”), with a 86 MW heavy fuel oil plant, and Kribi Power Development Company (“KPDC”), with a 216 MW gas/light fuel oil plant, currently under commissioning. DPDC
and KPDC have the same ownership structure; 56% AES and 44% Republic of Cameroon. Contracts at KPDC and DPDC are primarily capacity-based with Government protections. DPDC has a 20-year tolling agreement with AES Sonel and KPDC has a 20-year PPA
with AES Sonel and a 20-year gas supply agreement with the Government-owned Societe Nationale des Hydrocarbures (“SNH”)

With the commissioning of Kribi, AES will have 1,238 MW of generation in Cameroon—almost 100% of the country’s total capacity; of which 58% is hydroelectric, 17% gas, 16% heavy fuel oil, and 9%
diesel.







Asia SBU

Our Asia SBU has generation facilities in four countries. Our Asia operations accounted for 7%, 4% and 6% of AES consolidated gross margin
and 10%, 6% and 9% of AES consolidated adjusted PTC (a non-GAAP measure) in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The percentages shown are the contribution by each SBU to gross adjusted PTC, i.e. the total adjusted PTC by SBU, before deductions for
Corporate.





The following table provides highlights of our Asia operations:



CountriesChina, India, Philippines, Sri Lanka
and VietnamGeneration Capacity1,337 gross MW (1,021 proportional MW)Generation Facilities6 (including 1 under construction)Key BusinessesMasinloc, OPGC, Saurashtra and Mong
Duong II

Operating installed capacity of our Asia SBU totals 1,337 MW, of which 51%, 36% and 13% located in
the Philippines, India and Sri Lanka respectively. Set forth below in the table is a list of our Asia SBU generation facilities:



BusinessLocationFuelGrossMWAES EquityInterest(Percent,Rounded)YearAcquiredor BeganOperationChengdu(1)ChinaGas5035%1997China Subtotal50OPGC(1)IndiaCoal42049%1998SaurashtraIndiaWind39100%2012India Subtotal459MasinlocPhilippinesCoal66092%2008Phillipines Subtotal660KelanitissaSri LankaDiesel16890%2003Sri Lanka Subtotal168Asia Total1,337



(1)Unconsolidated entities for which the results of operations are reflected in Equity in Earnings of Affiliates.







Under construction



BusinessLocationFuelGrossMWAES EquityInterest(Percent,Rounded)ExpectedYear ofCommercialOperationMong Duong IIVietnamCoal1,24051%2015

The following map illustrates the location of our Asia facilities:





Asia Businesses

Philippines

Business Description

In April 2008, AES acquired the 660 MW Masinloc coal-fired power plant, located in Luzon. Subsequent to the acquisition, AES performed a
substantial rehabilitation program that was completed in 2010, resulting in improvements in reliability, environmental emissions, and plant safety performance. Generating capacity was improved from 430 MW at acquisition to 630 MW, and plant
availability increased from 74% at acquisition to current 93%.

Approximately 90% of Masinloc’s peak capacity is
contracted through medium—to long-term bilateral contracts primarily with Meralco, several electric cooperatives and a large industrial customer.

Market Structure

The Philippine power market is divided into three grids
representing the country’s three major island groups—Luzon, Visayas and Mindanao. Luzon (which includes Manila and is the country’s largest island) is interconnected with Visayas and represents 84% of the total demand of both regions.
Luzon and Visayas together have an installed capacity of 12,704 MW.

There is diversity in the mix of the Luzon-Visayas
generation, with coal accounting for 28%, natural gas for 20%, hydroelectric for 19%, geothermal generation for 13%, and the remaining 20% from oil-based generating plants which are either dispatched by the system operator only during system
emergencies or dispatched by the market during peak demand.

The primary customers for electricity are private distribution
utilities, electric cooperatives, and to a lesser extent large industrial customers. Approximately 90%-95% of the system’s total energy requirement is being







sold/purchased through medium to long term bilateral contracts (3-5 years, with renewal extensions). The remaining 5%-10% of energy is sold through the Wholesale Electricity Spot Market
(“WESM”), which is the real time, bid-based and hourly market for energy where the sellers and the buyers adjust their differences between their production/demand and their contractual commitments.

Regulatory Framework

Electricity Regulation.The Philippines has divided its power sector into generation, transmission, distribution and supply under the Electric Power Industry Reform Act of 2001 (“EPIRA”).
The EPIRA primarily aims to increase private sector participation in the power sector and to privatize the Government’s generation and transmission assets. Generation and supply are open and competitive sectors, while transmission and
distribution are regulated sectors. Sale of power is conducted primarily through medium-term bilateral contracts between generation companies and customers specifying the volume, price and conditions for the sale of energy and capacity, which are
approved by the Energy Regulatory Commission (“ERC”). Power is traded in the WESM which operates under a gross pool, central dispatch and net settlement protocols. Parties to bilateral contracts settle their transactions outside of the
WESM and distribution companies or electricity cooperatives buy their imbalance (i.e., power requirements not covered by bilateral contracts) from the WESM. Distribution utilities and electric cooperatives are allowed to pass on to their end-users
the ERC-approved bilateral contract rates, including WESM purchases.

Other Regulatory Considerations.EPIRA
established the Retail Competition and Open Access (“RC&OA”) under which Retail Electricity Suppliers, who are duly licensed by the ERC, may supply directly to Contestable Customers (end-users with an average demand of at least 1,000
kW), with distribution companies or electricity cooperatives providing non-discriminatory wire services. The ERC has issued a joint statement with DOE declaring December 26, 2012 as the commencement date of the Retail Competition and Open
Access. The period from December 26, 2012 to June 25, 2013 is a transition period with full implementation scheduled for June 26, 2013. There is no expected material adverse impact expected and we may purchase additional capacity from
the market in 2013 to take advantage of this regulatory opportunity.

Environmental Regulation

The Renewable Energy Act of 2008 was enacted in December 2008 to promote non-conventional renewable energy sources, such as solar, wind,
small hydroelectric and biomass energies. The law requires electric power participants to initially source 10% of their supply from eligible renewable energy resources. The initial requirement of 10% is preliminary, as the National Renewable Energy
Board has not set the final figure. If the regulations are implemented, our businesses in the Philippines could be affected by requirements requiring all generators to supply a portion of their generation from renewable energy resources.

Key Financial Drivers

The key drivers of the business are Masinloc’s availability, system reliability, demand growth, and reserve margins.

Other Businesses

India

Business Description

Our generation business in India consists of two plants: the Odisha Power Generation Corporation (“OPGC”) coal-fired plant and Saurashtra wind plant. OPGC is a 420 MW coal plant located in the
state of Odisha. AES acquired 49% of OPGC in 1998, with the remaining 51% owned by the state of Odisha. Saurashtra is a 100% owned 39 MW wind plant located in the state of Gujarat, which commenced operations in early 2012.







Our generation businesses have long-term PPAs with state utilities. OPGC has a 30-year PPA
with GRIDCO Limited expiring in 2026. The PPA is comprised of a capacity payment based on fixed parameters and a variable component comprised of fuel costs, where actual fuel costs are a pass-through. Saurashtra has a 25-year PPA with the Gujarat
State Utility.

Vietnam

Business Description

The Mong Duong II power project is a 1,240 MW plant
being constructed under a Build, Operate, and Transfer (“BOT”) agreement in Quang Ninh province of Vietnam. The project is currently the largest private sector power project in the country. AES-VCM Mong Duong Power Company Limited
(“the BOT Company”), a limited liability joint venture established by the affiliates of AES (51%), Posco Energy Corporation (30%) and China Investment Corporation (19%). The BOT Company has a PPA term of 25 years with Vietnam
Electricity (“EVN”). At the end of the term of the PPA, the company will be transferred to the Government in accordance with the BOT contract. Upon reaching commercial operations, EVN will have exclusive rights on the facility’s
entire capacity and energy. Vietnam National Coal-Mineral Industries Group (“Vinacomin”), the stated-owned entity, is the project’s coal supplier under a 25-year coal supply agreement.

The tariff has two components: Capacity charge and the foreign component of Operation and Maintenance Charge (“O&M”), which
are paid in U.S. Dollars and the local component of O&M and fuel charge are paid in Vietnam Dong. In addition, the U.S. Dollar and Vietnam Dong component of O&M are linked to a published Consumer Price Index of the U.S. and Vietnam
respectively. Fuel costs in general are pass-through elements in the fuel charge.

The project is currently under construction
and is scheduled to commence operations in the second half of 2015.







Financial Data by Country

The table below presents information, by country, about our consolidated operations for each of the three years ended December 31,
2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and property, plant and equipment as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Revenue is recognized in the country in which it is earned and assets are reflected in the country in which they are located.



RevenueProperty, Plant & Equipment, net20122011201020122011(in millions)United States(1)$3,764$2,113$1,952$7,663$7,730Non-U.S.:Brazil(2)5,7886,6406,3555,7565,896Chile1,6791,6081,3552,9932,781Argentina(3)857979771278293El Salvador850752648267268Dominican Republic761674535670662Philippines559480501800766United Kingdom(4)505587364579523Ukraine49141835611294Cameroon457386422989901Colombia453365393383384Mexico397404409759779Bulgaria(5)369251441,6111,624Puerto Rico293298253570581Panama2661891941,0691,040Sri Lanka169140100822Kazakhstan15114513814186Jordan121124120222216Spain(6)119258411——Hungary(7)——10——Qatar(8)—————Pakistan(9)—————Oman(10)—————Vietnam———887138Other Non-U.S.(11)92112112156217Total Non-U.S.14,37714,81013,49118,25017,271Total$18,141$16,923$15,443$25,913$25,001



(1)Excludes revenue of $39 million, $374 million and $662 million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and property,
plant and equipment of $619 million as of December 31, 2011, related to Eastern Energy, Thames, Ironwood, and Red Oak which were reflected as discontinued operations and assets held for sale in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of
Operations and Consolidated Balance Sheets. Additionally property, plant and equipment excludes $25 million and $45 million as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, related to wind turbines which were reflected as assets held for sale in
the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets.

(2)Excludes revenue of $124 million and $118 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, related to Brazil Telecom, which
was reflected as discontinued operations in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations.







(3)Excludes revenue of $102 million and $116 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, related to our Argentina
distribution businesses, which were reflected as discontinued operations in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations.

(4)Excludes revenue
of $5 million, $17 million and $21 million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, related to carbon reduction projects, which were reflected as discontinued operations in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of
Operations.

(5)Our wind project in Bulgaria started operations in 2010 and Maritza started operations in June 2011.

(6)Excludes property, plant and equipment of $620 million as of December 31, 2011, related to Cartagena, which was reflected as assets held for sale
in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet.

(7)Excludes revenue of $18 million, $219 million and $287 million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and property,
plant and equipment of $5 million as of December 31, 2011, related to Borsod, Tiszapalkonya and Tisza II, which were reflected as discontinued operations and assets held for sale in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations and
Consolidated Balance Sheets.

(8)Excludes revenue of $129 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, related to Ras Laffan, which was reflected as discontinued operations in
the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations.

(9)Excludes revenue of $299 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, related to Lal Pir and Pak Gen, which were reflected as discontinued
operations in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations.

(10)Excludes revenue of $62 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, related to Barka, which was reflected as discontinued operations in the
accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations.

(11)Excludes revenue of $1 million for each of the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, related to alternative energy and carbon reduction
projects, which were reflected as discontinued operations in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations.

Environmental and Land Use Regulations

The
Company faces certain risks and uncertainties related to numerous environmental laws and regulations, including existing and potential greenhouse gas (“GHG”) legislation or regulations, and actual or potential laws and regulations
pertaining to water discharges, waste management (including disposal of coal combustion byproducts), and certain air emissions, such as SO


, NO

X

, particulate matter, mercury and other hazardous air pollutants. Such risks and uncertainties could result in increased
capital expenditures or other compliance costs which could have a material adverse effect on certain of our United States or international subsidiaries, and our consolidated results of operations. For further information about these risks, see
Item 1A.—Risk Factors, “Our businesses are subject to stringent environmental laws and regulations,” “Our businesses are subject to enforcement initiatives from environmental regulatory agencies,” and
“Regulators, politicians, non-governmental organizations and other private parties have expressed concern about greenhouse gas, or GHG, emissions and the potential risks associated with climate change and are taking actions which could have
a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows” in this Form 10-K. For a discussion of the laws and regulations of individual countries within each SBU where our subsidiaries operate,
see discussion within Item 1. of this Form 10-K under the applicable SBUs.

Many of the countries in which the Company
does business also have laws and regulations relating to the siting, construction, permitting, ownership, operation, modification, repair and decommissioning of, and power sales from, electric power generation or distribution assets. In addition,
international projects funded by the International Finance Corporation, the private sector lending arm of the World Bank, or many other international lenders are subject to World Bank environmental standards or similar standards, which tend to be
more stringent than local country standards. The Company often has used advanced environmental technologies in order to minimize environmental impacts, including circulating fluidized bed (“CFB”) coal technologies, flue gas
desulphurization technologies, selective catalytic reduction technologies and advanced gas turbines.

Environmental laws and
regulations affecting electric power generation and distribution facilities are complex, change frequently and have become more stringent over time. The Company has incurred and will







continue to incur capital costs and other expenditures to comply with these environmental laws and regulations. See Item 7.—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations—Environmental Capital Expendituresin this Form 10-K for more detail. The Company and its subsidiaries may be required to make significant capital or other expenditures to comply with these
regulations. There can be no assurance that the businesses operated by the subsidiaries of the Company will be able to recover any of these compliance costs from their counterparties or customers such that the Company’s consolidated results of
operations, financial condition and cash flows would not be materially affected.

Various licenses, permits and approvals are
required for our operations. Failure to comply with permits or approvals, or with environmental laws, can result in fines, penalties, capital expenditures, interruptions or changes to our operations. Certain subsidiaries of the Company are subject
to litigation or regulatory action relating to environmental permits or approvals. See Item 3.—Legal Proceedings in this Form 10-K for more detail with respect to environmental litigation and regulatory action, including a Notice of
Violation (“NOV”) issued by the United States Environmental Protection Agency against IPL concerning new source review and prevention of significant deterioration issues under the United States Clean Air Act.

Greenhouse Gas Laws, Regulations and Protocols

In 2012, the Company’s subsidiaries operated electric power generation businesses which had total approximate
direct CO2emissions of 78.9 million metric tonnes,
approximately 39.9 million metric tonnes of which were emitted in the United States (both figures ownership adjusted). The Company uses CO2emission estimation methodologies supported by the “The Greenhouse Gas Protocol” reporting standard on GHG
emissions. For existing power generation plants, CO2emissions are either obtained directly from plant continuous emission monitoring systems or calculated from actual fuel heat inputs and fuel type CO2emission factors. Although the Company does not currently believe that the laws and regulations pertaining to GHG
emissions that have been adopted to date in countries in which the Company’s subsidiaries operate will have a material impact on the Company, the Company cannot predict with any certainty if future laws and regulations in these countries
regarding CO2emissions will have a material effect on the
Company’s consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

United States—Federal
Greenhouse Gas Legislation and Regulation

Currently, in the United States there is no Federal
legislation establishing mandatory GHG emissions reduction programs (including for CO2) affecting the electric power generation facilities of the Company’s subsidiaries. There are numerous state programs regulating GHG emissions from electric power generation facilities and there is a
possibility that federal GHG legislation will be enacted within the next several years. Further, the United States Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) has adopted regulations pertaining to GHG emissions and has announced its intention
to propose new regulations for electric generating units under Section 111 of the United States Clean Air Act (“CAA”).

Potential United States Federal GHG Legislation. Federal legislation passed the United States House of Representatives in 2009 that, if adopted, would have imposed a nationwide cap-and-trade
program to reduce GHG emissions. This legislation was never signed into law and is no longer under consideration. In the U.S. Senate, several different draft bills pertaining to GHG legislation have been considered, including comprehensive GHG
legislation similar to the legislation that passed the U.S. House of Representatives and more limited legislation focusing only on the utility and electric generation industry. It is uncertain if any GHG emissions legislation will be voted on and
passed by the U.S. Congress in 2013 or in subsequent years. If any such legislation is enacted into law, the impact could be material to the Company.

EPA GHG Regulation. The EPA made a finding that GHG emissions from mobile sources represent an “endangerment” to human health and the environment (the “Endangerment Finding”)
following the Supreme Court’s decision in Massachusetts v. EPA, that the EPA has the authority under the CAA to regulate GHG







emissions. The EPA then subsequently promulgated regulations governing GHG emissions from automobiles under the CAA (“Motor Vehicle Rule”). The effect of the EPA’s regulation of
GHG emissions from mobile sources is that certain provisions of the CAA now also apply to GHG emissions from existing stationary sources, including many United States power plants. In particular, since January 2, 2011, owners or operators
who plan construction of new stationary sources and/or modifications to existing stationary sources, which would result in increased GHG emissions, are required to obtain prevention of significant deterioration (“PSD”) permits prior to
commencement of such construction or modifications. In addition, major sources of GHG emissions may be required to amend, or obtain new, Title V air permits under the CAA to reflect any new applicable GHG emissions requirements for new
construction or for modifications to existing facilities.

A consortium of industry petitioners has challenged the Endangerment Finding, Tailoring
Rule and the Motor Vehicle Rule in the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit (the “D.C. Circuit”). On June 26, 2012, a three-judge panel of the D.C. Circuit upheld the Endangerment Finding, Tailoring Rule
and the Motor Vehicle Rule, and on December 20, 2012, the D.C. Circuit denied the industry petitioners’ motion for a rehearing. The industry petitioners may petition the U.S. Supreme Court for appeal, which petition the Court may accept or
deny.

In December 2010, the EPA entered into a settlement agreement with several states and
environmental groups to resolve a petition for review challenging the EPA’s new source performance standards (“NSPS”) rulemaking for electric utility steam generating units (“EUSGUs”) based on the NSPS’s failure to
address GHG emissions. Under the settlement agreement, the EPA committed to propose GHG emissions standards for EUSGUs and on March 27, 2012, the EPA proposed a rule that would establish NSPS for CO2emissions for new fossil-fueled EUSGUs larger than 25 megawatts
(“MW”). The proposed rule was published in the Federal Register on April 13, 2012, and the period for public comments expired on June 12, 2012. The EPA is considering the public comments. The proposed rule would not apply to
modified or existing EUSGUs, including the Company’s subsidiaries’ existing power plants. The EPA may propose regulations that would apply to modified or existing EUSGUs at a later date. However, the EPA has not yet announced a timetable
for such regulations. It is impossible to estimate the impact and compliance costs associated with any future EPA regulations applicable to modified or existing EUSGUs until such regulations are finalized; however, the impact, including the
compliance costs, could be material to our consolidated financial condition or results of operations.

United
States—State Greenhouse Gas Legislation and Regulation

Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative. The primary
regulation of GHG emissions affecting the United States plants of the Company’s subsidiaries has previously been through the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative







(“RGGI”). Under RGGI, nine Northeastern States have coordinated to establish rules that require reductions in CO2emissions from power plant operations within those states through a cap-and-trade program. Maryland is now the only state
currently participating in RGGI in which our subsidiaries have a relevant generating facility. Under RGGI, power plants must acquire one carbon allowance through auction or in the emission trading markets for each ton of CO2emitted. We have estimated that the costs to the Company of compliance
with RGGI could be approximately $3.0 million for 2013. Under the current three-year compliance period (2012 through 2014), the cap on aggregate CO2emissions per year for RGGI states is 165 million short tons of CO2, and the affected states are conducting a program wide review that could
result in changes to the 2012 through 2014 compliance period, including a lower emissions cap.

The
Company’s Warrior Run business is located in Maryland. In April 2006, the Maryland General Assembly passed the Maryland Healthy Air Act which, among other things, required the State of Maryland to join RGGI. The Maryland Department of
Environment (“MDE”) adopted regulations that require 100% of the allowances the State receives to be auctioned except for several small allowance set-aside accounts. The MDE regulations include a safety valve to control the economic impact
of the CO2cap-and-trade program. If the auction closing
price reaches $7, up to 50% of a year’s allowances will be reserved for purchase by electric power generation facilities located within Maryland at $7 per allowance, regardless of auction prices. Warrior Run continues to secure its allowance
requirements through the RGGI allowance auction.

In 2012, of the approximately 39.9 million metric
tonnes of CO


emitted in the United States by the businesses
operated by our subsidiaries (ownership adjusted), approximately 1.4 million metric tonnes were emitted by the Warrior Run business, our only business located in a state participating in RGGI. While CO


emissions from businesses operated by subsidiaries of the Company are
calculated globally in metric tonnes, RGGI allowances are denominated in short tons. (1 metric tonne equals 2,200 pounds and 1 short ton equals 2,000 pounds.) For forecasting purposes, the Company has modeled the impact of CO


compliance based on a three-year average of CO


emissions for its business that is subject to RGGI to the extent that it
may not be able to pass through compliance costs. The model includes a conversion from metric tonnes to short tons, as well as the impact of some market recovery by merchant plants and contractual and regulatory provisions. The model also utilizes a
price of $1.93 per allowance under RGGI. The source of this allowance price estimate was the clearing price in the most recent RGGI allowance auction held in December 2012. Based on these assumptions, the Company estimates that the RGGI compliance
costs could be approximately $3.0 million for 2013. Given the fact that the assumptions utilized in the model may prove to be incorrect, there is a risk that our actual compliance costs under RGGI will differ from our estimates and that our
model could underestimate our costs of compliance.

California.The Company’s Southland
business is located in California. On September 27, 2006, the Governor of California signed the Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006, also called Assembly Bill 32 (“A.B. 32”). A.B. 32 directs the California Air Resources Board
(“CARB”) to promulgate regulations that will require the reduction of CO


and other GHG emissions to 1990 levels by 2020. On October 20, 2011, CARB approved a set of regulations to implement a state-wide cap-and-trade program to regulate GHG emissions. The first
compliance period began on January 1, 2013, and initially covers emissions from electricity generating facilities, large industrial sources with annual emissions greater than 25,000 metric tons of CO


equivalent, and imported electricity. Emitters are required to hold
enough allowances or offsets to match their GHG emissions, and can comply by reducing their emissions or by purchasing tradable allowances from other emitters or at state-run auctions. Companies that reduce their emissions below the allowances they
hold have the opportunity to sell unused allowances. Initially, retail utilities are issued free allowances and merchant facilities are required to bid for allowances at auctions. The initial auction of GHG allowances resulted in the sale of all
offered allowances at a price slightly above the floor price of $10. The percentage of free allowances will decline in Phase II and will further decline when Phase III begins in 2018. The program will continue through 2020. Offset credits may be
issued for certain verified reductions of GHG emissions or sequestration projects not required by these regulations. The offset credits may be used to satisfy up to eight percent of an entity’s compliance obligation or they may be sold.







Midwestern Greenhouse Gas Reduction Accord (MGGRA). The Company owns the utility IPL, located in Indiana, and the utility DP&L, located in Ohio. On November 15, 2007, six Midwestern state
governors and the premier of Manitoba signed the Midwestern Greenhouse Gas Reduction Accord (“MGGRA”), committing the participating states and province to reduce GHG emissions through the implementation of a cap-and-trade program. Three
states (including Indiana and Ohio) and the province of Ontario have signed as observers. In May of 2010, the MGGRA Advisory Group finalized a set of recommendations for the establishment of targets for emissions reductions in the region and for the
design of a regional cap-and-trade program. These include a recommended reduction in GHG emissions of 20% below 2005 emission levels by 2025. The recommendations are from the advisory group only, and have not been endorsed or approved by individual
governors, including the Governors of Indiana and Ohio. Though MGGRA has not been formally suspended, participating states are no longer pursuing it. If Indiana or Ohio were to implement the recommended reduction targets, the impact on the
Company’s consolidated results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows could be material.

Hawaii. The
Company owns a power generation facility in Hawaii. On June 30, 2007, the Governor of Hawaii signed Act 234 which sets a goal of reducing GHG emissions to 1990 levels or less by January 1, 2020. Act 234 also established the Greenhouse Gas
Emissions Reduction Task Force, which is tasked with developing measures to meet Hawaii’s GHG emissions reduction goal. The Task Force filed a report to the Hawaii Legislature on December 30, 2009, strongly supporting the Hawaii Clean
Energy Initiative, which calls for additional renewable energy development, increased energy efficiency, and incorporates already-enacted renewable portfolio standards. The Task Force also evaluated other mechanisms and concluded that a state-level
cap-and-trade program is inappropriate due to the small size of Hawaii’s economy. Act 234 also required the Hawaii Department of Health to adopt rules to achieve reductions of GHG emissions based upon the recommendations and findings of the
Task Force. Pursuant to Act 234, the Hawaii Department of Health published for public comment proposed rules that would initiate the regulation of GHGs in Hawaii. To achieve the stated goal of reducing and maintaining statewide GHG levels
at 1990 levels by 2020, such proposed rules:



•require 25% reductions of facility-wide 2010 GHG levels by 2020 from Hawaii’s largest existing emitters, which includes AES Hawaii;



•require each affected source to prepare a GHG reduction plan within nine months after the adoption of the proposed rule; and



•initiate the collection of annual GHG fees (initially $0.12 per ton of CO2equivalent emitted).







We have estimated that AES Hawaii’s initial GHG fee under the proposed rules with
respect to 2012 emissions would be approximately $170,000. The period for public comment expired on January 13, 2013. The Hawaii Department of Health is considering the public comments.

At this time, other than the estimated impact of CO2compliance noted above for its businesses that are subject to RGGI or the proposed Hawaii Department of Health rules, the
Company has not estimated the costs of compliance with other actual or potential United States federal, state or regional
CO2emissions reduction legislation or initiatives, such as
WCI and MGGRA. This is due to the fact that most of these proposals are not being actively pursued or are in the early stages of development and any final regulations or laws, if adopted, could vary drastically from current proposals. We have not
estimated the costs of compliance with A.B. 32 due to the fact that we anticipate such costs to be passed through to our offtakers under the terms of existing tolling agreements. Although complete specific implementation measures for any federal
regulations of existing sources or MGGRA have yet to be proposed or finalized, if these GHG-related initiatives are proposed and finalized they may affect a number of the Company’s United States subsidiaries unless they are preempted by federal
GHG legislation. Any federal, state or regional legislation or regulations adopted in the United States that would require the reduction of GHG emissions or the payment for GHG emissions allowances could have a material effect on the Company’s
consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

The possible impact of any future federal GHG
legislation or regulations or any regional or state proposal will depend on various factors, including but not limited to:



•the geographic scope of legislation and/or regulation (e.g., federal, regional, state), which entities are subject to the legislation and/or
regulation (e.g., electricity generators, load-serving entities, electricity deliverers, etc.), the enactment date of the legislation and/or regulation and the compliance deadlines set forth therein;



•the level of reductions of
CO2being sought by the regulation and/or legislation
(e.g., 10%, 20%, 50%, etc.) and the year selected as a baseline for determining the amount or percentage of mandated
CO2reduction (e.g., 10% reduction from 1990 CO2emission levels, 20% reduction from 2000 CO2emission levels, etc.);



•the legislative and/or regulatory structure (e.g., a CO2cap-and-trade program, a carbon tax, CO2emission limits, etc.);



•in any cap-and-trade program, the mechanism used to determine the price of emission allowances or offsets to be auctioned by designated governmental
authorities or representatives;



•the price of offsets and emission allowances in the secondary market, including any price floors or price caps on the costs of offsets and emission
allowances;



•the applicability of any emission rate limits imposed on existing or modified EUSGUs and the impacts of such limits on the operation of fossil
fuel-fired electric generating units;



•the operation of and emissions from regulated units;



•the permissibility of using offsets to meet reduction requirements and the requirements of such offsets (e.g., type of offset projects allowed,
the amount of offsets that can be used for compliance purposes, any geographic limitations regarding the origin or location of creditable offset projects), as well as the methods required to determine whether the offsets have resulted in reductions
in GHG emissions and that those reductions are permanent (i.e., the verification method);



•whether the use of proceeds of any auction conducted by responsible governmental authorities is reinvested in developing new energy technologies, is
used to offset any cost impact on certain energy consumers or is used to address issues unrelated to power;



•how the price of electricity is determined at the affected businesses, including whether the price includes any costs resulting from any new CO2legislation and the potential to transfer compliance costs pursuant to
legislation, market or contract to other parties;







•any impact on fuel demand and volatility that may affect the market clearing price for power;



•the effects of any legislation or regulation on the operation of power generation facilities that may in turn affect reliability;



•the availability and cost of carbon control technology;



•the extent to which existing contractual arrangements transfer compliance costs to power offtakers or other contractual counterparties of our
subsidiaries;



•whether legislation regulating GHG emissions will preclude the EPA from regulating GHG emissions under the Clean Air Act or preempt private nuisance
suits or other litigation by third parties; and



•any opportunities to change the use of fuel at the generation facilities of our subsidiaries or opportunities to increase efficiency.

International Greenhouse Gas Regulations and Protocols

On February 16, 2005, the Kyoto Protocol became effective. The Kyoto Protocol requires the industrialized
countries that have ratified it to significantly reduce their GHG emissions, including CO


. The vast majority of developing countries which have ratified the Kyoto Protocol have no GHG reduction requirements, including many of the countries in which the Company’s subsidiaries operate. Of
the 27 countries in which the Company’s subsidiaries currently operate, all but one—the United States (including Puerto Rico)—have ratified the Kyoto Protocol. To date, compliance with the Kyoto Protocol and the European Union
Emissions Trading System (“EU ETS”) has not had a material effect on the Company’s consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The first commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol expired at the end of
2012. In December 2012, the annual United Nations conference of the parties to the Kyoto Protocol was held in Doha, Qatar (“COP 18”). COP 18 resulted in the publication of the Doha Amendment that provides for a second commitment period,
running for eight years from January 1, 2013 to December 31, 2020, and an overall commitment to reduce GHG emissions during that period by 18% from 1990 levels. The Doha Amendment will be effective, for the parties who ratify it, on the

th

day after three-quarters of the parties to the Kyoto
Protocol have ratified it. COP 18 also resulted in commitments to work toward a universal climate change agreement on GHG emissions reductions, to be adopted by 2015. At present, the Company cannot predict whether compliance with the second
commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol or any successor agreements will have a material effect on the Company’s consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows in future periods.

Since January 2005, large combustion plants and other large industrial installations located in the EU have been
subject to the EU ETS. Established by Directive 2003/87/EC, the EU ETS requires EU member states (“Member States”) to limit emissions of CO2from large industrial sources within their countries. During the first and second trading periods of EU ETS, which
commenced in January 2005 and terminated at the end of 2012, Member States were required to implement EC-approved national allocation plans (“NAPs”). Under the NAPs, Member States were responsible for allocating limited CO2allowances within their borders. Directive 2003/87/EC did not dictate
how these allocations were to be made, and the approved NAPs varied in their allocation methodologies.

Pursuant to
“Directive 2009/29/EC amending European Directive 2003/87/EC so as to improve and extend the greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme of the Community” (the “2009 Amending Directive”), the European Union will keep the EU
ETS in place through the third trading period, which ends in 2020, even if the Kyoto Protocol is not replaced by another agreement. NAPs were required during the first and second trading periods. However, for the third trading period, which began in
2013, there will no longer be any national allocation plans. Instead, the allocations will be determined directly by the EU.

The Company’s subsidiaries operate four thermal electric power generation facilities within three Member States which are subject to
the EU ETS. During the first and second trading periods, achieving and maintaining compliance with the requirements of the EU ETS did not have a material impact on the consolidated operations or results of the Company.







The 2009 Amending Directive was adopted by the EU in April 2009 as part of
the EU’s “Climate Change Package,” which also included a Carbon Capture & Storage Directive and a revised Renewables Directive. The 2009 Amending Directive provides for the third trading period of the EU ETS, which will apply
from the beginning of 2013 until 2020. The key characteristics of the third trading period relevant to the Company are as follows:



•The EU is aiming to reduce EU-wide CO2emissions by 21% from 2005 levels by 2020.



•A single, EU-wide cap on annual CO2allowances will be imposed by the European Commission, rather than Member States. This cap will decrease annually.



•Significantly fewer free
CO2allowances will be allocated than during the first and
second trading periods, with an increasing number being made available for purchase by auction (50% of all allowances will be auctioned in 2013, compared to 3% in the second trading period).



•Free allocations will be set using a benchmark based on the most efficient installations for each type of product, with very limited allocations for
electricity production. In 2013, each installation will receive free allowances equivalent to 80% of the benchmark, with the proportion decreasing each year, to 0% by 2027.



•NAPs will be replaced by National Implementing Measures (“NIMs”), which set out the levels of free allocation of allowances to installations
in accordance with harmonized EU rules. Member States are required to submit proposed NIMs to the EU; these were intended to be assessed and approved during 2012.

In addition to the 2009 Amending Directive for the EU ETS, the Renewables Directive was also adopted by the EU in April 2009, and will
enter into force in each individual EU Member State upon the adoption by each country of implementing legislation or regulations. The key requirement of the Renewables Directive is a minimum overall target of 20% of all energy generation in the EU
to be from renewable sources by 2020.

AES generation businesses in each Member State will be required to comply with the
relevant measures taken to implement the directives, including each of the relevant NIMs.

There remains significant
uncertainty with respect to the third trading period and the implementation of NIMs post-2012. Although many Member States have submitted draft NIMs to the EU for approval, these NIMs could undergo changes and there is no certainty as to their final
form. At this time, the Company cannot determine whether achieving and maintaining compliance with the EU allocation plan for the third trading period, to which its subsidiaries are subject, will have a material impact on its consolidated operations
or financial results.







Other United States Environmental and Land Use Legislation and Regulations

In the United States the CAA and various state laws and regulations regulate emissions of air
pollutants, including SO2, NOX, particulate matter (“PM”), mercury and other hazardous air
pollutants (“HAPs”). Certain applicable rules are discussed in further detail below.

The EPA
promulgated the “Clean Air Interstate Rule” (“CAIR”) on March 10, 2005, which required allowance surrender for SO2and NOXemissions from existing power plants located in 28 eastern states and the District of Columbia. CAIR contemplated two
implementation phases. The first phase was to begin in 2009 and 2010 for NOXand SO2,
respectively. A second phase with additional allowance surrender obligations for both air emissions was to begin in 2015. To implement the required emission reductions for this rule, the states were to establish emission allowance based
“cap-and-trade” programs. CAIR was subsequently challenged in federal court, and on July 11, 2008, the United States Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit issued an opinion striking down much of CAIR and remanding it to the EPA.

In response to the D.C. Circuit’s opinion, on July 7, 2011, the EPA issued a final rule titled
“Federal Implementation Plans to Reduce Interstate Transport of Fine Particulate Matter and Ozone in 27 States,” which is now referred to as the Cross-State Air Pollution Rule (“CSAPR”). The CSAPR would have required significant
reductions in SO2and NOXemissions from covered sources, such as power plants, in many states in
which subsidiaries of the Company operate. Once fully implemented, the rule would have required additional SO2emission reductions of 73% and additional NOXreductions of 54% from 2005 levels.

Many states, utilities and other affected
parties filed petitions for review, challenging the CSAPR before the D.C. Circuit. On August 21, 2012, a three-judge panel of the D.C. Circuit vacated the CSAPR and required EPA to continue administering CAIR pending the promulgation of a valid
replacement to the CSAPR. The Company’s subsidiaries will continue to meet their CAIR requirements by virtue of existing pollution control equipment combined with the purchase of emission allowances, when needed. On October 5, 2012, EPA,
several states and cities, as well as environmental and health organizations, filed petitions with the D.C. Circuit requesting a rehearing of the case by all of the judges of the D.C. Circuit. On January 24, 2013, the D.C. Circuit issued orders
denying all of the outstanding petitions for rehearing and rehearing en banc of the CSAPR decision. The EPA has 90 days from the issuance of the D.C. Circuit’s mandate to file a petition for certiorari with the Supreme Court.

If EPA does not seek Supreme Court review, the Agency must begin developing a replacement rule. At this time, we cannot predict the
impact that such a replacement transport rule would have on the Company. However, such replacement rule could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations.


and which also remove some acid gases. However,
there are other improvements to such control







technologies that may be needed even at these plants to assure compliance with the MATS standards. Older coal-fired facilities that do not currently have a SO


Several lawsuits challenging the MATS rule have been filed and consolidated into a
single proceeding before the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. We cannot predict the outcome of this litigation. The aggregate capital costs, other expenditures or operational restrictions necessary to comply with
the rule cannot be specified at this time. The Company anticipates that the rule may have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations.

New Source Review. The new source review (“NSR”) requirements under the CAA impose certain requirements on
major emission sources, such as electric generating stations, if changes are made to the sources that result in a significant increase in air emissions. Certain projects, including power plant modifications, are excluded from these NSR requirements,
if they meet the routine maintenance, repair and replacement (“RMRR”) exclusion of the CAA. There is ongoing uncertainty, and significant litigation, regarding which projects fall within the RMRR exclusion. The EPA has pursued a
coordinated compliance and enforcement strategy to address NSR compliance issues at the nation’s coal-fired power plants. The strategy has included both the filing of suits against power plant owners and the issuance of Notices of Violation
(“NOVs”) to a number of power plant owners alleging NSR violations. See Item 3.—Legal Proceedings in this Form 10-K for more detail with respect to environmental litigation and regulatory action, including a NOV issued by
the EPA against IPL concerning NSR and prevention of significant deterioration issues under the United States Clean Air Act.

DP&L’s Stuart Station and Hutchings Station have received NOVs from the EPA alleging that certain activities undertaken in the past are outside the scope of the RMRR exclusion. Additionally,
generation units partially owned by DP&L but operated by other utilities have received such NOVs relating to equipment repairs or replacements alleged to be outside the RMRR exclusion. The NOVs issued to DP&L-operated plants have not been
pursued through litigation by the EPA.







If NSR requirements were imposed on any of the power plants owned by subsidiaries of the
Company, the results could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. In connection with the imposition of any such NSR requirements on our U.S. utilities, DP&L and IPL, the
utilities would seek recovery of any operating or capital expenditures related to air pollution control technology to reduce regulated air emissions; however, there can be no assurances that they would be successful in that regard.

Regional Haze Rule.

Water Discharges.The Company’s facilities are subject to a variety of rules governing water discharges. In particular, the Company’s U.S. facilities are subject to the U.S. Clean Water
Act Section 316(b) rule issued by the EPA which seeks to protect fish and other aquatic organisms by requiring existing steam electric generating facilities to utilize the “Best Technology Available” (“BTA”) for cooling
water intake structures. The EPA published a proposed rule establishing requirements under 316(b) regulations on April 20, 2011. The proposal, based on Section 316(b) of the U.S. Clean Water Act, establishes BTA requirements regarding
impingement standards with respect to aquatic organisms for all facilities that withdraw above 2 million gallons per day of water from certain bodies of water and utilize at least 25% of the withdrawn water for cooling purposes. To meet these
BTA requirements, as currently proposed, cooling water intake structures associated with once through cooling processes will need modifications of existing traveling screens that protect aquatic organisms and will need to add a fish return and
handling system for each cooling system. Existing closed cycle cooling facilities may require upgrades to water intake structure systems. The proposal would also require comprehensive site-specific studies during the permitting process and may
require closed-cycle cooling systems in order to meet BTA entrainment standards.

On July 17, 2012, the EPA announced
that it would delay issuance of the final rule until no later than June 27, 2013. Until such regulations are final, the EPA has instructed state regulatory agencies to use their best professional judgment in determining how to evaluate what
constitutes “best technology available” for protecting fish and other aquatic organisms from cooling water intake structures. Certain states in which the Company operates power generation facilities have been delegated authority and are
moving forward to issue National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (“NPDES”) permits with best technology available determinations in the absence of any final rule from the EPA. On September 27, 2010, the California Office of
Administrative Law approved a policy adopted by the California State Water Resources Control Board with respect to power plant cooling water intake structures that withdraw from coastal and estuarine waters. This policy became effective on
October 1, 2010, and establishes technology-based standards to implement Section 316(b) of the U.S. Clean







Water Act in NPDES permits that withdraw from coastal and estuarine waters in California. At this time, it is contemplated that the Company’s Redondo Beach, Huntington Beach and Alamitos
power plants in California (collectively, “AES Southland”) will need to have in place best technology available by December 31, 2020, or repower the facilities. On April 1, 2011, AES Southland filed an Implementation Plan with
the State Water Resources Control Board that indicated its intent to repower the facilities in a phased approach, with the final units being in compliance by 2024. The State Water Resources Board is currently reviewing the implementation plans and
has requested additional information to assist with its evaluation. Power plants will be required to comply with the more stringent of state or federal requirements. At present, the Company cannot predict the final requirements under the EPA
Section 316(b) regulation, but the Company anticipates compliance costs could have a material impact on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations.

Waste Management.In the course of operations, the Company’s facilities generate solid and liquid waste materials requiring
eventual disposal or processing. With the exception of coal combustion byproducts (“CCB”), the wastes are not usually physically disposed of on our property, but are shipped off site for final disposal, treatment or recycling. CCB, which
consists of bottom ash, fly ash and air pollution control wastes, is disposed of at some of our coal-fired power generation plant sites using engineered, permitted landfills. Waste materials generated at our electric power and distribution
facilities include CCB, oil, scrap metal, rubbish, small quantities







Although
the public comment period for this proposed regulation has expired, the EPA issued a Notice of Data Availability (“NODA”) on October 12, 2011, which allowed the public to submit additional information until November 14, 2011,
which the EPA is considering prior to promulgating a final rule. The EPA is also conducting a coal ash reuse risk analysis that the EPA has stated it will complete before issuing a final rule. The EPA is likely to retain its five-year deadline for
meeting the final rule’s surface impoundment requirements. While the exact impact and compliance cost associated with future regulations of CCB cannot be established until such regulations are finalized, there can be no assurance that the
Company’s businesses, financial condition or results of operations would not be materially and adversely affected by such regulations.

Senate Bill 251.In May 2011, Senate Bill 251 became a law in the State of Indiana. Senate Bill 251 is a comprehensive bill which, among other things, provides Indiana utilities, including IPL,
with a means for recovering 80% of costs incurred to comply with federal mandates through a periodic retail rate adjustment mechanism. This includes costs to comply with regulations from the EPA, FERC, the North American Electric Reliability
Corporation (“NERC”), Department of Energy, etc., including capital intensive requirements and/or proposals described herein, such as cooling water intake regulations, waste management and coal combustion byproducts, wastewater effluent,
MISO transmission expansion costs and polychlorinated biphenyls. It does not change existing legislation that allows for 100% recovery of clean coal technology designed to reduce air pollutants (“Indiana Senate Bill 29”).







CERCLA. The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of
1980 (“CERCLA” aka “Superfund”) may be the source of claims against certain of the Company’s U.S. subsidiaries from time to time. There is ongoing litigation at a site known as the South Dayton Landfill where a group of
companies already recognized as Potentially Responsible Parties (“PRP”) have sued DP&L and other unrelated entities seeking a contribution towards the costs of assessment and remediation. DP&L is actively opposing such
claims. In 2003, DP&L received notice that the EPA considers DP&L to be a PRP at the Tremont City landfill Superfund site. No actions have taken place since 2003 regarding the Tremont City landfill. The Company is unable to
determine whether there will be any liability, or the size of any liability that may ultimately be assessed against DP&L at these two sites, but any such liability could be material to DP&L.

Indiana Tree Trimming Regulation. In July 2012, the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission (“IURC”) issued a final order
regarding the tree trimming practices, which was later approved by the Indiana governor and attorney general and became law in October 2012. IPL is implementing procedures to ensure it appropriately complies with the requirements of the new rule
that addresses notification, dispute resolution and other activities associated with its vegetation management practices. The requirements of the new ruling are similar to current practices. However, the actual cost impact of the rule will not be
known until IPL has experience operating under its terms.

Other International Environmental Regulations

In Europe, the Company is, and will continue to be, required to reduce air emissions from our facilities to comply
with applicable EU Directives, including the new IED, which incorporates Directive 2001/80/EC (referred to as the Large Combustion Plant Directive, or the “LCPD”). The Company’s coal plants in Europe are either exempt from the
LCPD/IED due to their size or possess the abatement technology required to be in compliance with the LCPD/IED, except for AES Ballylumford’s ‘B Station,’ with respect to which AES Ballylumford has elected under the LCPD/IED to retire
from operations by 2015 rather than invest in the abatement technology required to comply with the LCPD/IED.

Progress in
implementation of the IED varies from Member State to Member State—the deadline for implementation having passed on January 7, 2013. The scope of the IED is wider than the LCPD. It aims to reduce emissions of pollutants that are alleged to
be harmful to the environment and associated with cancer, asthma and acid rain, and it seeks to prevent and control air, water and soil pollution by industrial installations. It regulates emissions of a wide range of pollutants, including sulfur and
nitrogen compounds, dust particles, asbestos and heavy metals.

The IED provides for a more harmonized and rigorous
implementation of permit requirements for large industrial plants, seeking to optimize environmental performance by requiring adoption of the cleanest available technology, so-called Best Available Techniques (“BAT”). Guidance as to BATs
applicable to various types of installations will be set out in BAT reference documents (“BREFs”), which the EU will publish based on information and emerging practices from across the EU. Regulators in all Member States will be required
to take the BREFs into consideration when assessing permit requirements at each facility. Deviations from these standards will only be permitted where local and technical characteristics would make it disproportionately costly to comply.

In addition to general BAT requirements, the IED also imposes tighter, prescribed minimum emission limits for
NOX, SO2and dust from power plants. Some of these limits are significantly lower
than under the LCPD. Existing power plants have to comply with these standards from January 1, 2016 subject to the provisions of “Transitional National Plans,” which Member States may adopt to allow for existing plants to emit above
the prescribed limits, in accordance with declining annual caps on NOX, SO2and/or
dust emissions. The annual caps for NOX, SO2and/or dust emissions must align with the prescribed limits by
June 30, 2020. These transitional arrangements are only available to plants which:



•received their first permit (or submitted a permit application) before November 27, 2002; and







•started operating before November 27, 2003.

Where installations are already scheduled to close by the end of 2023 or operate less than 17,500 hours after 2016, they may be permitted to operate without an upgrade, provided that they are not already
exempt, pursuant to a “limited lifetime derogation plan.” Each operator has until January 1, 2014 to submit a declaration to the relevant permitting authority indicating whether it intends to take advantage of a limited lifetime
derogation plan. AES generation businesses in each Member State will be required to comply with the relevant measures taken to implement the IED. At this time, the Company cannot yet determine the costs associated with the implementation of the IED
in Member States that regulate the Company’s subsidiaries, but it could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s consolidated operations or results.

Customers

We sell to a wide variety of
customers. No individual customer accounted for 10% or more of our 2012 total revenue. In our generation business, we own and/or operate power plants to generate and sell power to wholesale customers such as utilities and other intermediaries. Our
utilities sell to end-user customers in the residential, commercial, industrial and governmental sectors in a defined service area.

Employees

As of December 31, 2012, we
employed approximately 25,000 people.

Executive Officers

The following individuals are our executive officers:

Andrés R. Gluski,

Elizabeth Hackenson, 52 years old, was named Chief Information Officer (“CIO”) and Senior Vice President of AES
in October 2008. Prior to assuming her current position, Ms. Hackenson was the Senior Vice President and CIO at Alcatel-Lucent from 2006 to 2008, where she managed the development of technology programs for Applications, Operations and
Infrastructure. Previously, she also served as the Executive Vice President and CIO for MCI from 2004 to 2006. MCI was a Fortune 50 company, with a diversified telecom portfolio employing 55,000 employees worldwide. Her corporate tenure has spanned
several Fortune 100 companies including, British Telecom (Concert), AOL (UUNET) and EDS. She served in a variety of senior management positions, working on the management and delivery of information technology services to support business needs
across a corporate-wide enterprise. Ms. Hackenson serves on the Boards of Dayton Power & Light and its parent company DPL, Inc. Indianapolis Power & Light and its parent company IPALCO, AES Sul and AES Chivor. She also
serves on several Boards outside of AES, including Serena (a privately held company owned by Silver Lake Partners), HP Board of Advisors and is a Strategic Advisor to the Paladin Group.







Brian A. Miller,47 years old, is an Executive Vice President of the
Company, General Counsel, and Corporate Secretary. Mr. Miller joined the Company in 2001 and has served in various positions including Vice President, Deputy General Counsel, Corporate Secretary, General Counsel for North America and Assistant
General Counsel. In March of 2008, Mr. Miller joined the Board of AES Solar Energy, Ltd., AES Solar Power, LLC, and AES Solar Power PR, LLC, joint ventures between AES and Riverstone Holdings LLC. In 2010, Mr. Miller joined the Board of
AES Entek, a joint venture that will develop and operate power projects in Turkey, between AES and Koc Holdings. In November of 2011, Mr. Miller joined the Board of Dayton Power & Light Company and its parent company, DPL, Inc. He is
also a member of the Board of AES Chivor. Prior to joining AES, he was an attorney with the law firm Chadbourne & Parke, LLP. Mr. Miller received a bachelor’s degree in History and Economics from Boston College and holds a
Juris Doctorate from the University of Connecticut School Of Law.

Thomas M. O’Flynn

Andrew Vesey







How to Contact AES and Sources of Other Information

Our principal offices are located at 4300 Wilson Boulevard, Arlington, Virginia 22203. Our telephone number is
(703) 522-1315. Our website address ishttp://www.aes.com. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to such reports filed pursuant to
Section 13(a) or Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) are posted on our website. After the reports are filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”),
they are available from us free of charge. Material contained on our website is not part of and is not incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K. You may also read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference
Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. You may obtain information about the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an internet website that contains the reports, proxy and
information statements and other information that we file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov.

Our CEO and our CFO
have provided certifications to the SEC as required by Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. These certifications are included as exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Our CEO provided a certification pursuant to Section 303A of the New York Stock Exchange Listed Company Manual on May 21, 2012.

Our Code of Business Conduct (“Code of Conduct”) and Corporate Governance Guidelines have been adopted by our Board
of Directors. The Code of Conduct is intended to govern, as a requirement of employment, the actions of everyone who works at AES, including employees of our subsidiaries and affiliates. Our Ethics and Compliance Department provides training,
information, and certification programs for AES employees related to the Code of Conduct. The Ethics and Compliance Department also has programs in place to prevent and detect criminal conduct, promote an organizational culture that encourages
ethical behavior and a commitment to compliance with the law, and to monitor and enforce AES policies on corruption, bribery, money laundering and associations with terrorists groups. The Code of Conduct and the Corporate Governance Guidelines are
located in their entirety on our website. Any person may obtain a copy of the Code of Conduct or the Corporate Governance Guidelines without charge by making a written request to: Corporate Secretary, The AES Corporation, 4300 Wilson Boulevard,
Arlington, VA 22203. If any amendments to, or waivers from, the Code of Conduct or the Corporate Governance Guidelines are made, we will disclose such amendments or waivers on our website.



