Item 1.Business



General
    Business Description



U.S. Bancorp (“U.S. Bancorp” or the
    “Company”) is a multi-state financial services holding
    company headquartered in Minneapolis, Minnesota.
    U.S. Bancorp was incorporated in Delaware in 1929 and
    operates as a financial holding company and a bank holding
    company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956.
    U.S. Bancorp provides a full range of financial services,
    including lending and depository services, cash management,
    foreign exchange and trust and investment management services.
    It also engages in credit card services, merchant and ATM
    processing, mortgage banking, insurance, brokerage and leasing.



U.S. Bancorp’s banking subsidiaries are engaged in the
    general banking business, principally in domestic markets. The
    subsidiaries range in size from $53 million to
    $211 billion in deposits and provide a wide range of
    products and services to individuals, businesses, institutional
    organizations, governmental entities and other financial
    institutions. Commercial and consumer lending services are
    principally offered to customers within the Company’s
    domestic markets, to domestic customers with foreign operations
    and within certain niche national venues. Lending services
    include traditional credit products as well as credit card
    services, financing and import/export trade, asset-backed
    lending, agricultural finance and other products. Leasing
    products are offered through bank leasing subsidiaries.
    Depository services include checking accounts, savings accounts
    and time certificate contracts. Ancillary services such as
    foreign exchange, treasury management and receivable lock-box
    collection are provided to corporate customers.
    U.S. Bancorp’s bank and trust subsidiaries provide a
    full range of asset management and fiduciary services for
    individuals, estates, foundations, business corporations and
    charitable organizations.



U.S. Bancorp’s non-banking subsidiaries primarily
    offer investment and insurance products to the Company’s
    customers principally within its markets, and mutual fund
    processing services to a broad range of mutual funds.



Banking and investment services are provided through a network
    of 3,031 banking offices principally operating in the Midwest
    and West regions of the United States. The Company operates a
    network of 5,310 ATMs and provides24-hour,seven day a week telephone customer service. Mortgage banking
    services are provided through banking offices and loan
    production offices throughout the Company’s markets.
    Consumer lending products may be originated through banking
    offices, indirect correspondents, brokers or other lending
    sources, and a consumer finance division. The Company is also
    one of the largest providers of
    Visa®corporate and purchasing card services and corporate trust
    services in the United States. A wholly-owned subsidiary,
    Elavon, Inc. (“Elavon”), provides merchant processing
    services directly to merchants and through a network of banking
    affiliations. Affiliates of Elavon provide similar merchant
    services in Canada and segments of Europe. These foreign
    operations are not significant to the Company.



On a full-time equivalent basis, as of December 31, 2010,
    U.S. Bancorp employed 60,584 people.



Competition



The commercial banking business is highly competitive.
    Subsidiary banks compete with other commercial banks and with
    other financial institutions, including savings and loan
    associations, mutual savings banks, finance companies, mortgage
    banking companies, credit unions and investment companies. In
    recent years, competition has increased from institutions not
    subject to the same regulatory restrictions as domestic banks
    and bank holding companies.



Government
    Policies



The operations of the Company’s various operating units are
    affected by federal and state legislative changes and by
    policies of various regulatory authorities, including those of
    the numerous states in which they operate, the United States and
    foreign governments. These policies include, for example,
    statutory maximum legal lending rates, domestic monetary
    policies of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
    System, United States fiscal





policy, international currency regulations and monetary
    policies, U.S. Patriot Act and capital adequacy and
    liquidity constraints imposed by bank regulatory agencies.



Supervision
    and Regulation



U.S. Bancorp and its subsidiaries are subject to the
    extensive regulatory framework applicable to bank holding
    companies and their subsidiaries. This regulatory framework is
    intended primarily for the protection of depositors, the deposit
    insurance fund of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the
    “FDIC”), consumers and the banking system as a whole,
    and not necessarily for investors in bank holding companies such
    as the Company.



This section summarizes certain provisions of the principal laws
    and regulations applicable to the Company and its subsidiaries.
    The descriptions are not intended to be complete and are
    qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of the
    statutes and regulations described below.



Substantial changes to the regulation of bank holding companies
    and their subsidiaries will also be forthcoming from the bank
    regulatory agencies as a result of the enactment in 2010 of the
    Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the
    “Dodd-Frank Act”). Changes in applicable law or
    regulation, and in their application by regulatory agencies,
    cannot be predicted, but they may have a material effect on the
    business and results of the Company and its subsidiaries.



Dodd-Frank ActThe Dodd-Frank Act was enacted
    into law on July 21, 2010. The Dodd-Frank Act significantly
    changes the regulatory framework for financial services
    companies, and requires significant rulemaking and numerous
    studies and reports over the next several years. Among other
    things, it creates a new Financial Stability Oversight Council
    with broad authority to make recommendations or require enhanced
    prudential standards and more stringent supervision for large
    bank holding companies and certain non-bank financial services
    companies. The Dodd-Frank Act provides regulators with the power
    to require a company to sell or transfer assets and terminate
    activities, if they determine that the size or scope of the
    company’s activities pose a threat to the safety and
    soundness of the company or the financial stability of the
    United States.



The Dodd-Frank Act establishes the Bureau of Consumer Financial
    Protection, which has broad authority to regulate providers of
    credit, savings, payment and other consumer financial products
    and services. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act does the
    following: creates a new structure for resolving troubled or
    failed financial institutions; requires certainover-the-counterderivative transactions to be cleared in a central clearinghouseand/oreffected on an exchange; revises the assessment base for the
    calculation of the FDIC insurance assessments; restricts the
    amount of interchange fees on debit card transactions; restricts
    securities trading activities and support for and investments in
    private funds; increases capital requirements; and enhances the
    regulation of consumer mortgage banking and predatory lending
    activities. The Dodd-Frank Act also limits the pre-emption of
    local laws applicable to national banks.



In addition to the Dodd-Frank Act, other legislative proposals
    have been made both domestically and internationally. Among
    other things, these proposals include additional capital and
    liquidity requirements and limitations on size or types of
    activity in which banks may engage.



Federal Reserve RegulationThe Company elected
    to become a financial holding company as of March 13, 2000,
    pursuant to the provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (the
    “GLBA”). Under the GLBA’s system of
    “functional regulation,” the Board of Governors of the
    Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve”) acts as
    an “umbrella regulator” for the Company, and certain
    of the Company’s subsidiaries are regulated directly by
    additional agencies based on the particular activities of those
    subsidiaries. The Company’s banking subsidiaries are
    regulated by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the
    “OCC”) and also by the Federal Reserve and the FDIC in
    certain areas. Supervision and regulation by the responsible
    regulatory agency generally includes comprehensive annual
    reviews of all major aspects of a bank’s business and
    condition, and imposition of periodic reporting requirements and
    limitations on investments and certain types of activities.



If a financial holding company or a depository institution
    controlled by a financial holding company ceases to meet certain
    capital or management standards, the Federal Reserve may impose
    corrective capital and managerial requirements on the financial
    holding company, and place limitations on its ability to conduct
    all of the business activities that financial holding companies
    are generally permitted to conduct. See “Permissible
    Business





Activities” below. If the failure to meet these standards
    persists, a financial holding company may be required to divest
    its depository institution subsidiaries, or cease all activities
    other than those activities that may be conducted by bank
    holding companies that are not financial holding companies.



Federal Reserve regulations also provide that, if any depository
    institution controlled by a financial holding company fails to
    maintain a satisfactory rating under the Community Reinvestment
    Act (“CRA”), the Federal Reserve must prohibit the
    financial holding company and its subsidiaries from engaging in
    the additional activities in which only financial holding
    companies may engage. See “Community Reinvestment Act”
    below. At December 31, 2010, the Company’s
    depository-institution subsidiaries met the capital, management
    and CRA requirements necessary to permit the Company to conduct
    the broader activities permitted for financial holding companies
    under the GLBA.



The Dodd-Frank Act codified existing Federal Reserve policy
    requiring the Company to act as a source of financial strength
    to its bank subsidiaries, and to commit resources to support
    these subsidiaries in circumstances where it might not otherwise
    do so. However, because the GLBA provides for functional
    regulation of financial holding company activities by various
    regulators, the GLBA prohibits the Federal Reserve from
    requiring payment by a holding company to a depository
    institution if the functional regulator of the depository
    institution objects to the payment. In those cases, the Federal
    Reserve could instead require the divestiture of the depository
    institution and impose operating restrictions pending the
    divestiture. As a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, non-bank
    subsidiaries of a holding company that engage in activities
    permissible for an insured depository institution must be
    examined and regulated in a manner that is at least as stringent
    as if the activities were conducted by the lead depository
    institution of the holding company.



Permissible Business ActivitiesAs a financial
    holding company, the Company may affiliate with securities firms
    and insurance companies and engage in other activities that are
    financial in nature or incidental or complementary to activities
    that are financial in nature. “Financial in nature”
    activities include the following: securities underwriting,
    dealing and market making; sponsoring mutual funds and
    investment companies; insurance underwriting and agency;
    merchant banking; and activities that the Federal Reserve, in
    consultation with the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury,
    determines to be financial in nature or incidental to such
    financial activity. “Complementary activities” are
    activities that the Federal Reserve determines upon application
    to be complementary to a financial activity and that do not pose
    a safety and soundness risk.



The Company generally does not need Federal Reserve approval to
    acquire a company (other than a bank holding company, bank or
    savings association) engaged in activities that are financial in
    nature or incidental to activities that are financial in nature,
    as determined by the Federal Reserve. However, the Dodd-Frank
    Act added a provision requiring that approval if the total
    consolidated assets to be acquired exceed $10 billion.
    Financial holding companies are also required to obtain the
    approval of the Federal Reserve before they may acquire more
    than 5 percent of the voting shares or substantially all of
    the assets of an unaffiliated bank holding company, bank or
    savings association.



Interstate BankingUnder the Riegle-Neal
    Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994 (the
    “Riegle-Neal Act”), a bank holding company may acquire
    banks in states other than its home state, subject to any state
    requirement that the bank has been organized and operating for a
    minimum period of time (not to exceed five years). Also, such an
    acquisition is not permitted if the bank holding company
    controls, prior to or following the proposed acquisition, more
    than 10 percent of the total amount of deposits of insured
    depository institutions nationwide, or, if the acquisition is
    the bank holding company’s initial entry into the state,
    more than 30 percent of the deposits of insured depository
    institutions in the state (or any lesser or greater amount set
    by the state).



The Riegle-Neal Act also authorizes banks to merge across state
    lines to create interstate branches. Under the Dodd-Frank Act,
    banks are permitted to establish new branches in another state
    to the same extent as banks chartered in the other state.



Regulatory Approval for AcquisitionsIn
    determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition,
    federal bank regulators will consider a number of factors,
    including the following: the effect of the acquisition on
    competition, financial condition and future prospects (including
    current and projected capital ratios and levels); the
    competence, experience and integrity of management and its
    record of compliance with laws and regulations; the





convenience and needs of the communities to be served (including
    the acquiring institution’s record of compliance under the
    CRA); and the effectiveness of the acquiring institution in
    combating money laundering activities. In addition, under the
    Dodd-Frank Act, approval of interstate transactions requires
    that the acquiror satisfy regulatory standards for well
    capitalized and well managed institutions.



Dividend RestrictionsThe Company is a legal
    entity separate and distinct from its subsidiaries. Typically,
    the majority of the Company’s operating funds are received
    in the form of dividends paid to the Company by U.S. Bank
    National Association, its principal banking subsidiary. Federal
    law imposes limitations on the payment of dividends by national
    banks.



Dividends payable by U.S. Bank National Association,
    U.S. Bank National Association ND and the Company’s
    trust bank subsidiaries, as national banking associations, are
    limited to the lesser of the amounts calculated under a
    “recent earnings” test and an “undivided
    profits” test. Under the recent earnings test, a dividend
    may not be paid if the total of all dividends declared by a bank
    in any calendar year is in excess of the current year’s net
    income combined with the retained net income of the two
    preceding years, unless the bank obtains the approval of the
    OCC. Under the undivided profits test, a dividend may not be
    paid in excess of a bank’s “undivided profits.”
    See Note 23 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements included in the Company’s 2010 Annual Report for
    the amount of dividends that the Company’s principal
    banking subsidiaries could pay to the Company at
    December 31, 2010, without the approval of their banking
    regulators.



In addition to the dividend restrictions described above, the
    OCC, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC have authority to prohibit
    or limit the payment of dividends by the banking organizations
    they supervise (including the Company and its bank
    subsidiaries), if, in the banking regulator’s opinion,
    payment of a dividend would constitute an unsafe or unsound
    practice in light of the financial condition of the banking
    organization. Subject to exceptions for well capitalized and
    well managed holding companies, Federal Reserve regulations also
    require approval of holding company purchases and redemptions of
    its securities if the gross consideration paid exceeds
    10 percent of consolidated net worth for any12-monthperiod.



In addition, Federal Reserve policy on the payment of dividends,
    stock redemptions and stock repurchases requires that bank
    holding companies consult with and inform the Federal Reserve in
    advance of doing any of the following: declaring and paying
    dividends that could raise safety and soundness concerns
    (e.g., declaring and paying dividends that exceed
    earnings for the period for which dividends are being paid);
    redeeming or repurchasing capital instruments when experiencing
    financial weakness; and redeeming or repurchasing common stock
    and perpetual preferred stock, if the result will be a net
    reduction in the amount of such capital instruments outstanding
    for the quarter in which the reduction occurs.



In November 2010, the Federal Reserve issued an addendum to its
    policy on dividends, stock redemptions and stock repurchases
    that is specifically applicable to the 19 largest bank holding
    companies (including the Company) that are covered by the
    Supervisory Capital Assessment Program (“SCAP”). The
    addendum provides for Federal Reserve review of dividend
    increases, implementation of capital repurchase programs and
    other capital repurchases or redemptions. The addendum also
    requires that holding companies subject to SCAP prepare and file
    a comprehensive capital plan that includes a stress testing
    framework. These plans will be evaluated by the Federal Reserve
    based on the holding company’s risk profile, currently
    applicable capital standards and the reasonableness of plans to
    address future capital standards, including Basel III
    (discussed below) and relevant requirements under the Dodd-Frank
    Act.



Capital RequirementsFederal banking
    regulators have adopted risk-based capital and leverage
    guidelines that require thecapital-to-assetsratios of financial institutions to meet certain minimum
    standards. The risk-based capital ratio is calculated by
    allocating assets and specified off-balance sheet financial
    instruments into risk weighted categories (with higher levels of
    capital being required for the categories perceived as
    representing greater risk), and is used to determine the amount
    of a financial institution’s total risk-weighted assets
    (“RWA”).



Under the guidelines, capital is divided into two tiers:
    Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital. The amount of
    Tier 2 capital may not exceed the amount of Tier 1
    capital. Total capital is the sum of Tier 1 capital and
    Tier 2 capital. Under the guidelines, banking organizations
    are required to maintain a total capital ratio (total capital to
    RWA) of 8 percent and a Tier 1 capital ratio
    (Tier 1 capital to RWA) of 4 percent. At
    December 31, 2010, the Company’s





consolidated total capital ratio was 13.3 percent and its
    Tier 1 capital ratio was 10.5 percent. For a further
    description of these guidelines, see Note 15 of the Notes
    to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Company’s 2010
    Annual Report.



The federal banking regulators also have established minimum
    leverage ratio guidelines. The leverage ratio is defined as
    Tier 1 capital divided by adjusted average total assets.
    The minimum leverage ratio is 3 percent for bank holding
    companies that are considered “strong” under Federal
    Reserve guidelines or which have implemented the Federal
    Reserve’s risk-based capital measure for market risk. Other
    bank holding companies must have a minimum leverage ratio of
    4 percent. Bank holding companies may be expected to
    maintain ratios well above the minimum levels, depending upon
    their particular condition, risk profile and growth plans. At
    December 31, 2010, the Company’s leverage ratio was
    9.1 percent.



The minimum risk-based capital requirements adopted by the
    federal banking agencies follow the Capital Accord of the Basel
    Committee on Banking Supervision. In 2004, the Basel Committee
    published a revision to the accord (“Basel II”).
    U.S. banking regulators published a final Basel II
    rule in December 2007, which requires the Company to implement
    Basel II at the holding company level, as well as at its
    key U.S. bank subsidiaries. A further revision to the
    accord was published in December 2010 (“Basel III”),
    with implementation to be phased in beginning in 2013. Although
    banking regulators have not yet issued regulations implementing
    Basel III, the domestic implementation of Basel III will
    increase the Company’s capital requirements.



The Dodd-Frank Act contained amendments to holding company
    capital requirements. These amendments effectively eliminated
    differences between the minimum capital requirements applicable
    to insured depository institutions and their holding companies
    by phasing out the use of hybrid debt instruments (such as trust
    preferred securities) in determining holding company regulatory
    capital.



For additional information regarding the Company’s
    regulatory capital, see Capital Management in the Company’s
    2010 Annual Report on pages 53 to 54.



Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement
    ActThe Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
    Improvement Act of 1991 (the “FDICIA”) provides a
    framework for regulation of depository institutions and their
    affiliates (including parent holding companies) by federal
    banking regulators. As part of that framework, the FDICIA
    requires the relevant federal banking regulator to take
    “prompt corrective action” with respect to a
    depository institution, if that institution does not meet
    certain capital adequacy standards.



Supervisory actions by the appropriate federal banking regulator
    under the “prompt corrective action” rules generally
    depend upon an institution’s classification within five
    capital categories. The regulations apply only to banks and not
    to bank holding companies such as the Company; however, subject
    to limitations that may be imposed pursuant to the GLBA, the
    Federal Reserve is authorized to take appropriate action at the
    holding company level, based on the undercapitalized status of
    the holding company’s subsidiary banking institutions. In
    certain instances relating to an undercapitalized banking
    institution, the bank holding company would be required to
    guarantee the performance of the undercapitalized
    subsidiary’s capital restoration plan, and could be liable
    for civil money damages for failure to fulfill those guarantee
    commitments.



Deposit InsuranceUnder current FDIC
    regulations, each depository institution is assigned to a risk
    category based on capital and supervisory measures. In 2009, the
    FDIC revised the method for calculating the assessment rate for
    depository institutions by introducing several adjustments to an
    institution’s initial base assessment rate. A depository
    institution is assessed premiums by the FDIC based on its risk
    category and the amount of deposits held. Higher levels of banks
    failures have dramatically increased FDIC resolution costs and
    depleted the deposit insurance fund. In addition, in 2008, the
    amount of FDIC insurance coverage for insured deposits was
    generally increased from $100,000 per depositor account
    ownership type to $250,000.



In light of the increased stress on the deposit insurance fund
    caused by these developments, and in order to maintain a strong
    funding position and restore the reserve ratios of the deposit
    insurance fund, the FDIC (a) imposed a special assessment
    in June 2009, (b) has increased assessment rates of insured
    institutions generally, and (c) required insured
    institutions to prepay on December 30, 2009 the premiums
    that were expected to become due for 2010, 2011 and 2012. In
    addition, the Dodd-Frank Act alters the assessment base for
    deposit insurance assessments from a deposit to an asset base,
    and seeks to fund part of the cost of the Dodd-Frank Act by
    increasing





the deposit insurance reserve fund to 1.35 percent of
    estimated insured deposits. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires
    that FDIC assessments be set in a manner that offsets the cost
    of the assessment increases for institutions with consolidated
    assets of less than $10 billion. This provision effectively
    places the increased assessment costs on larger financial
    institutions such as the Company.



The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently increased deposit insurance
    coverage from $100,000 per account ownership type to $250,000,
    and extended the unlimited insurance of non-interest bearing
    transaction accounts under the FDIC Transaction Account Guaranty
    program to January 1, 2013.



Powers of the FDIC Upon Insolvency of an Insured
    InstitutionIf the FDIC is appointed the
    conservator or receiver of an insured depository institution
    upon its insolvency or in certain other events, the FDIC has the
    power to (a) transfer any of the depository
    institution’s assets and liabilities to a new obligor
    without the approval of the depository institution’s
    creditors; (b) enforce the terms of the depository
    institution’s contracts pursuant to their terms; or
    (c) repudiate or disaffirm any contracts (if the FDIC
    determines that performance of the contract is burdensome and
    that the repudiation or disaffirmation is necessary to promote
    the orderly administration of the depository institution). These
    provisions would be applicable to obligations and liabilities of
    the Company’s subsidiaries that are insured depository
    institutions, such as U.S. Bank National Association.



Depositor PreferenceUnder federal law, in the
    event of the liquidation or other resolution of an insured
    depository institution, the claims of a receiver of the
    institution for administrative expense and the claims of holders
    of U.S. deposit liabilities (including the FDIC, as
    subrogee of the depositors) have priority over the claims of
    other unsecured creditors of the institution, including holders
    of publicly issued senior or subordinated debt and depositors innon-U.S. offices.As a result, those noteholders and depositors would be treated
    differently from, and could receive, if anything, substantially
    less than, the depositors in U.S. offices of the depository.



Orderly Liquidation of Bank Holding
    CompaniesThe Dodd-Frank Act provides for the
    orderly liquidation of certain financial services companies
    (including bank holding companies) through the appointment of
    the FDIC as receiver upon insolvency and the occurrence of
    certain other events. Although these provisions became effective
    upon enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, only some of the
    regulations have been proposed, and none have been adopted, to
    date.



In preparation for the potential exercise of this authority, the
    FDIC created the Office of Complex Financial Institutions. Its
    duties include the continuous review and oversight of bank
    holding companies with assets of more than $100 billion.
    The Dodd-Frank Act also requires each bank holding company with
    $50 billion or more in assets to prepare a “living
    will” to facilitate the company’s rapid and orderly
    liquidation in the event of material financial distress or
    failure.



Liability of Commonly Controlled
    InstitutionsAn FDIC-insured depository
    institution can be held liable for any loss incurred or expected
    to be incurred by the FDIC in connection with another
    FDIC-insured institution under common control with that
    institution being “in default” or “in danger of
    default” (commonly referred to as“cross-guarantee”liability). An FDIC claim for cross-guarantee liability against
    a depository institution is generally superior in right of
    payment to claims of the holding company and its affiliates
    against the depository institution.



Transactions with AffiliatesThere are various
    legal restrictions on the extent to which the Company and its
    non-bank subsidiaries may borrow or otherwise obtain funding
    from the Company’s banking subsidiaries, including
    U.S. Bank National Association and U.S. Bank National
    Association ND. Under the Federal Reserve Act and
    Regulation W of the Federal Reserve, the Company’s
    banking subsidiaries (and their subsidiaries) may only engage in
    lending and other “covered transactions” with non-bank
    and non-savings bank affiliates to the following extent:
    (a) in the case of any single affiliate, the aggregate
    amount of covered transactions may not exceed 10 percent of
    the capital stock and surplus of the banking subsidiary; and
    (b) in the case of all affiliates, the aggregate amount of
    covered transactions may not exceed 20 percent of the
    capital stock and surplus of the banking subsidiary.



Covered transactions between the Company’s banking
    subsidiaries and their affiliates are also subject to certain
    collateralization requirements. All covered transactions,
    including transactions with a third party in which an affiliate
    of the banking subsidiary has a financial interest, must be
    conducted on market terms. “Covered transactions” are
    defined to include (a) a loan or extension of credit by a
    bank subsidiary to an affiliate, (b) a purchase of
    securities issued to a banking subsidiary by an affiliate,
    (c) a purchase of assets (unless otherwise





exempted by the Federal Reserve) by the banking subsidiary from
    an affiliate, (d) the acceptance of securities issued by an
    affiliate to the banking subsidiary as collateral for a loan,
    and (e) the issuance of a guarantee, acceptance or letter
    of credit by the banking subsidiary on behalf of an affiliate.



Anti-Money Laundering and Suspicious
    ActivitySeveral federal laws, including the Bank
    Secrecy Act, the Money Laundering Control Act and the Uniting
    and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools
    Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (the
    “Patriot Act”) require all financial institutions
    (including banks and securities broker-dealers) to, among other
    things, implement policies and procedures relating to anti-money
    laundering, compliance, suspicious activities, and currency
    transaction reporting and due diligence on customers. The
    Patriot Act also requires federal bank regulators to evaluate
    the effectiveness of an applicant in combating money laundering
    when determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition.



Community Reinvestment ActThe Company’s
    banking subsidiaries are subject to the provisions of the CRA.
    Under the terms of the CRA, the banks have a continuing and
    affirmative obligation, consistent with safe and sound
    operation, to help meet the credit needs of their communities,
    including providing credit to individuals residing in low- and
    moderate-income neighborhoods. The CRA does not establish
    specific lending requirements or programs for financial
    institutions, and does not limit an institution’s
    discretion to develop the types of products and services that it
    believes are best suited to its particular community in a manner
    consistent with the CRA.



The OCC regularly assesses each of the Company’s banking
    subsidiaries on its record in meeting the credit needs of the
    community served by that institution, including low-income and
    moderate-income neighborhoods. The assessment also is considered
    when the Federal Reserve reviews applications by banking
    institutions to acquire, merge or consolidate with another
    banking institution or its holding company, to establish a new
    branch office that will accept deposits or to relocate an
    office. In the case of a bank holding company applying for
    approval to acquire a bank or other bank holding company, the
    Federal Reserve will assess the records of each subsidiary
    depository institution of the applicant bank holding company,
    and those records may be the basis for denying the application.



U.S. Bank National Association received an
    “outstanding” CRA rating and U.S. Bank National
    Association ND received a “satisfactory” CRA rating in
    their most recent examinations, covering the periods from
    January 1, 2006 through December 31, 2008.



Regulation of Brokerage, Investment Advisory and Insurance
    ActivitiesThe Company conducts securities
    underwriting, dealing and brokerage activities in the United
    States through U.S. Bancorp Investments, Inc.
    (“USBII”) and other subsidiaries. These activities are
    subject to regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission
    (the “SEC”), the Financial Industry Regulatory
    Authority and other authorities, including state regulators.
    These regulations generally include licensing of securities
    personnel, interactions with customers, trading operations and
    periodic examinations.



Securities regulators impose capital requirements on USBII and
    monitor its financial operations with periodical financial
    reviews. In addition, USBII is a member of the Securities
    Investor Protection Corporation.



The operations of First American Funds mutual funds also are
    subject to regulation by the SEC. The Company’s operations
    in the areas of insurance brokerage and reinsurance of credit
    life insurance are subject to regulation and supervision by
    various state insurance regulatory authorities, including the
    licensing of insurance brokers and agents.



Financial PrivacyUnder the requirements
    imposed by the GLBA, the Company and its subsidiaries are
    required periodically to disclose to their retail customers the
    Company’s policies and practices with respect to the
    sharing of nonpublic customer information with its affiliates
    and others, and the confidentiality and security of that
    information. Under the GLBA, retail customers also must be given
    the opportunity to “opt out” of information-sharing
    arrangements with nonaffiliates, subject to certain exceptions
    set forth in the GLBA.



Other Supervision and RegulationThe
    activities of U.S. Bank National Association and
    U.S. Bank National Association ND as consumer lenders also
    are subject to regulation under various U.S. federal laws,
    including theTruth-in-Lending,Equal Credit Opportunity, Fair Credit Reporting, Fair Debt
    Collection Practice and Electronic Funds Transfer acts, as well
    as various state laws. These statutes impose requirements on
    consumer loan origination and collection practices.





The Company is subject to the disclosure and regulatory
    requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, both as
    administered by the SEC, by virtue of the Company’s status
    as a public company. As a listed company on the New York Stock
    Exchange (the “NYSE”), the Company is subject to the
    rules of the NYSE for listed companies.



Website
    Access to SEC Reports



U.S. Bancorp’s internet website can be found atusbank.com. U.S. Bancorp makes available free of
    charge on its website its annual reports onForm 10-K,quarterly reports onForm 10-Q,current reports onForm 8-K,and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
    Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as well as all
    other reports filed by U.S. Bancorp with the SEC as soon as
    reasonably practicable after electronically filed with, or
    furnished to, the United States Securities and Exchange
    Commission.



Additional
    Information



Additional information in response to this Item 1 can be
    found in the Company’s 2010 Annual Report on page 20
    under the heading “Acquisitions”; and on pages 55 to
    60 under the heading “Line of Business Financial
    Review.” That information is incorporated into this report
    by reference.



