Item 1.Business

General
Business Description

U.S. Bancorp (“U.S. Bancorp” or the “Company”) is a multi-state
financial services holding company headquartered in Minneapolis, Minnesota. U.S. Bancorp was incorporated in Delaware in 1929 and operates as a financial holding company and a bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956.
U.S. Bancorp provides a full range of financial services, including lending and depository services, cash management, foreign exchange and trust and investment management services. It also engages in credit card services, merchant and ATM
processing, mortgage banking, insurance, brokerage and leasing.

U.S. Bancorp’s banking subsidiaries are engaged in
the general banking business, principally in domestic markets. The subsidiaries range in size from $53 million to $236 billion in deposits and provide a wide range of products and services to individuals, businesses, institutional
organizations, governmental entities and other financial institutions. Commercial and consumer lending services are principally offered to customers within the Company’s domestic markets, to domestic customers with foreign operations and to
large national customers focusing on specific targeted industries. Lending services include traditional credit products as well as credit card services, leasing, financing and import/export trade, asset-backed lending, agricultural finance and other
products. Depository services include checking accounts, savings accounts and time certificate contracts. Ancillary services such as foreign exchange, treasury management and receivable lock-box collection are provided to corporate customers.
U.S. Bancorp’s bank and trust subsidiaries provide a full range of asset management and fiduciary services for individuals, estates, foundations, business corporations and charitable organizations.

U.S. Bancorp’s non-banking subsidiaries primarily offer investment and insurance products to the Company’s customers
principally within its markets, and mutual fund processing services to a broad range of mutual funds.

Banking and investment services are provided through a network of 3,085 banking offices principally operating in the
Midwest and West regions of the United States. The Company operates a network of 5,053 ATMs and provides 24-hour, seven day a week telephone customer service. Mortgage banking services are provided through banking offices and loan production offices
throughout the Company’s markets. Consumer lending products may be originated through banking offices, indirect correspondents, brokers and other lending sources. The Company is also one of the largest providers of Visa®corporate and purchasing card services and corporate trust services in the United States. A wholly-owned subsidiary,
Elavon, Inc. (“Elavon”), provides merchant processing services directly to merchants and through a network of banking affiliations. Affiliates of Elavon provide similar merchant services in Canada, Mexico, Brazil and segments of Europe.
These foreign operations are not significant to the Company.

On a full-time equivalent basis, as of December 31, 2011,
U.S. Bancorp employed 62,529 people.

Competition

The commercial banking business is highly competitive. The Company’s subsidiary banks compete with other commercial banks and with other financial institutions, including savings and loan
associations, mutual savings banks, finance companies, mortgage banking companies, credit unions and investment companies. In recent years, competition has increased from institutions not subject to the same regulatory restrictions as domestic banks
and bank holding companies. Competition is based on a number of factors including, among others, customer service, quality and range of products and services offered, price, reputation, interest rates on loans and deposits, lending limits and
customer convenience. The Company’s ability to continue to compete effectively also depends in large part on its ability to attract new employees and retain and motivate existing employees, while managing compensation and other costs.

Government Policies

The operations of the Company’s various operating units are affected by federal and state legislative changes and by policies of various regulatory authorities, including those of the numerous states
in which they operate, the United States and foreign governments. These policies include, for example, statutory maximum






legal lending rates, domestic monetary policies of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, United States fiscal policy, international currency regulations and monetary policies, the
U.S. Patriot Act and capital adequacy and liquidity constraints imposed by bank regulatory agencies.

Supervision and Regulation

U.S. Bancorp and its subsidiaries are subject to the extensive regulatory framework applicable to bank holding
companies and their subsidiaries. This regulatory framework is intended primarily for the protection of depositors, the deposit insurance fund of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the “FDIC”), consumers and the stability of the
financial system in the United States and the health of the national economy, and not for investors in bank holding companies such as the Company.

This section summarizes certain provisions of the principal laws and regulations applicable to the Company and its subsidiaries. The descriptions are not intended to be complete and are qualified in their
entirety by reference to the full text of the statutes and regulations described below.

Substantial changes to the regulation
of bank holding companies and their subsidiaries have occurred and will continue to occur as a result of the enactment in 2010 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”). Changes in applicable
law or regulation, and in their application by regulatory agencies, have had and will continue to have a material effect on the business and results of the Company and its subsidiaries.

Dodd-Frank ActThe Dodd-Frank Act, which was enacted into law on July 21, 2010, significantly changed the regulatory
framework for financial services companies, and requires significant rulemaking and numerous studies and reports over the next several years. Among other things, it created a new Financial Stability Oversight Council (the “Council”) with
broad authority to make recommendations covering enhanced prudential standards and more stringent supervision for large bank holding companies and certain non-bank financial services companies. The Dodd-Frank Act significantly reduced interchange
fees on debit card transactions, limits the preemption of state laws applicable to national banks, increases the regulation of consumer mortgage banking and makes numerous other changes discussed below.

In addition to the Dodd-Frank Act, other legislative proposals affecting banks have been made both domestically and internationally.
Among other things, these proposals include additional capital and liquidity requirements and limitations on size or types of activity in which banks may engage.

Federal Reserve RegulationThe Company elected to become a financial holding company as of March 13, 2000, pursuant to the provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (the “GLBA”).
Under the GLBA’s system of “functional regulation,” the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve”) acts as an “umbrella regulator” for the Company, and certain of the Company’s
subsidiaries are regulated directly by additional agencies based on the particular activities of those subsidiaries. The Company’s banking subsidiaries are regulated by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the “OCC”) and
also by the Federal Reserve and the FDIC in certain areas. Supervision and regulation by the responsible regulatory agency generally includes comprehensive annual reviews of all major aspects of a bank’s business and condition, and imposition
of periodic reporting requirements and limitations on investments and certain types of activities.

If a financial holding
company or a depository institution controlled by a financial holding company ceases to meet certain capital or management standards, the Federal Reserve may impose corrective capital and managerial requirements on the financial holding company, and
may place limitations on its ability to conduct all of the business activities that financial holding companies are generally permitted to conduct. See “Permissible Business Activities” below. If the failure to meet these standards
persists, a financial holding company may be required to divest its depository institution subsidiaries, or cease all activities other than those activities that may be conducted by bank holding companies that are not financial holding companies.






Federal Reserve regulations also provide that, if any depository institution controlled by a
financial holding company fails to maintain a satisfactory rating under the Community Reinvestment Act (“CRA”), the Federal Reserve must prohibit the financial holding company and its subsidiaries from engaging in the additional activities
in which only financial holding companies may engage. See “Community Reinvestment Act” below. At December 31, 2011, the Company’s depository-institution subsidiaries met the capital, management and CRA requirements necessary to
permit the Company to conduct the broader activities permitted for financial holding companies under the GLBA.

The Dodd-Frank
Act codified existing Federal Reserve policy requiring the Company to act as a source of financial strength to its bank subsidiaries, and to commit resources to support these subsidiaries in circumstances where it might not otherwise do so. However,
because the GLBA provides for functional regulation of financial holding company activities by various regulators, the GLBA prohibits the Federal Reserve from requiring payment by a holding company to a depository institution if the functional
regulator of the depository institution objects to the payment. In those cases, the Federal Reserve could instead require the divestiture of the depository institution and impose operating restrictions pending the divestiture. As a result of the
Dodd-Frank Act, non-bank subsidiaries of a holding company that engage in activities permissible for an insured depository institution must be examined and regulated in a manner that is at least as stringent as if the activities were conducted by
the lead depository institution of the holding company.

Enhanced Prudential Standards/Early RemediationIn December
2011, the Federal Reserve issued a proposed rule relating to enhanced prudential standards required under the Dodd-Frank Act for bank holding companies with over $50 billion in consolidated assets. The prudential standards include enhanced
risk-based capital and leverage requirements, enhanced liquidity requirements, enhanced risk management and risk committee requirements, a requirement to submit a resolution plan, single-counterparty credit limits and stress tests. The proposal
requires the Federal Reserve to conduct annual supervisory capital adequacy stress tests of covered companies under baseline, adverse and severely adverse scenarios, and requires covered companies to conduct their own capital adequacy stress tests.
The proposal would provide for notification to a covered company as to which the Council has determined to impose a debt-to-equity ratio of no more than 15-to-1, based upon the determination by the Council that (a) such company poses a grave
threat to the financial stability of the United States and (b) the imposition of such a requirement is necessary to mitigate the risk that the company poses to the financial stability of the United States.

The proposed rule also provides, as required by the Dodd-Frank Act, for the early remediation of financial distress at covered companies
so as to minimize the probability that the company will become insolvent and to reduce the potential harm of the insolvency of a covered company to the financial stability of the United States. Remedies include, in the initial stages of financial
decline of the covered company, limits on capital distributions, acquisitions and asset growth. Remedies in the later stages of financial decline of the covered company include a capital restoration plan and capital-raising requirements, limits on
transactions with affiliates, management changes and asset sales. In addition to regulatory capital triggers, the proposed rule includes triggers based on supervisory stress test results, market indicators and weaknesses in enterprise-wide and
liquidity risk management.

Permissible Business ActivitiesAs a financial holding company, the Company may
affiliate with securities firms and insurance companies and engage in other activities that are financial in nature or incidental or complementary to activities that are financial in nature. “Financial in nature” activities include the
following: securities underwriting, dealing and market making; sponsoring mutual funds and investment companies; insurance underwriting and agency; merchant banking; and activities that the Federal Reserve, in consultation with the Secretary of the
United States Treasury, determines to be financial in nature or incidental to such financial activity. “Complementary activities” are activities that the Federal Reserve determines upon application to be complementary to a financial
activity and that do not pose a safety and soundness risk.

The Company generally does not need Federal Reserve approval to
acquire a company (other than a bank holding company, bank or savings association) engaged in activities that are financial in nature or incidental to






activities that are financial in nature, as determined by the Federal Reserve. However, the Dodd-Frank Act added a provision requiring that approval if the total consolidated assets to be
acquired exceed $10 billion. Financial holding companies are also required to obtain the approval of the Federal Reserve before they may acquire more than 5 percent of the voting shares or substantially all of the assets of an unaffiliated
bank holding company, bank or savings association.

Interstate BankingUnder the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking
and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994 (the “Riegle-Neal Act”), a bank holding company may acquire banks in states other than its home state, subject to any state requirement that the bank has been organized and operating for a minimum
period of time (not to exceed five years). Also, such an acquisition is not permitted if the bank holding company controls, prior to or following the proposed acquisition, more than 10 percent of the total amount of deposits of insured
depository institutions nationwide, or, if the acquisition is the bank holding company’s initial entry into the state, more than 30 percent of the deposits of insured depository institutions in the state (or any lesser or greater amount
set by the state).

The Riegle-Neal Act also authorizes banks to merge across state lines to create interstate branches. Under
the Dodd-Frank Act, banks are permitted to establish new branches in another state to the same extent as banks chartered in the other state.

Regulatory Approval for AcquisitionsIn determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition, federal bank regulators will consider a number of factors, including the following: the
effect of the acquisition on competition, financial condition and future prospects (including current and projected capital ratios and levels); the competence, experience and integrity of management and its record of compliance with laws and
regulations; the convenience and needs of the communities to be served (including the acquiring institution’s record of compliance under the CRA); and the effectiveness of the acquiring institution in combating money laundering activities. In
addition, under the Dodd-Frank Act, approval of interstate transactions requires that the acquiror satisfy regulatory standards for well capitalized and well managed institutions.

Dividend RestrictionsThe Company is a legal entity separate and distinct from its subsidiaries. Typically, the majority of
the Company’s operating funds are received in the form of dividends paid to the Company by U.S. Bank National Association, its principal banking subsidiary. Federal law imposes limitations on the payment of dividends by national banks.

Dividends payable by U.S. Bank National Association, U.S. Bank National Association ND and the Company’s trust
bank subsidiaries, as national banking associations, are limited to the lesser of the amounts calculated under a “recent earnings” test and an “undivided profits” test. Under the recent earnings test, a dividend may not be paid
if the total of all dividends declared by a bank in any calendar year is in excess of the current year’s net income combined with the retained net income of the two preceding years, unless the bank obtains the approval of the OCC. Under the
undivided profits test, a dividend may not be paid in excess of a bank’s “undivided profits.” See Note 23 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Company’s 2011 Annual Report for the amount of
dividends that the Company’s principal banking subsidiaries could pay to the Company at December 31, 2011, without the approval of their banking regulators.

In addition to the dividend restrictions described above, the OCC, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC have authority to prohibit or limit the payment of dividends by the banking organizations they supervise
(including the Company and its bank subsidiaries), if, in the banking regulator’s opinion, payment of a dividend would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice in light of the financial condition of the banking organization. Subject to
exceptions for well capitalized and well managed holding companies, Federal Reserve regulations also require approval of holding company purchases and redemptions of its securities if the gross consideration paid exceeds 10 percent of
consolidated net worth for any 12-month period.

In addition, Federal Reserve policy on the payment of dividends, stock
redemptions and stock repurchases requires that bank holding companies consult with and inform the Federal Reserve in advance of doing any of the following: declaring and paying dividends that could raise safety and soundness concerns (e.g.,
declaring and paying dividends that exceed earnings for the period for which dividends are being paid); redeeming or






repurchasing capital instruments when experiencing financial weakness; and redeeming or repurchasing common stock and perpetual preferred stock, if the result will be a net reduction in the
amount of such capital instruments outstanding for the quarter in which the reduction occurs.

In 2010, the Federal Reserve
issued an addendum to its policy on dividends, stock redemptions and stock repurchases that is specifically applicable to the 19 largest bank holding companies (including the Company) that are covered by the Supervisory Capital Assessment Program.
The addendum provides for Federal Reserve review of dividend increases, implementation of capital repurchase programs and other capital repurchases or redemptions.

Capital RequirementsFederal banking regulators have adopted risk-based capital and leverage guidelines that require the capital-to-assets ratios of financial institutions to meet certain
minimum standards. The risk-based capital ratio is calculated by allocating assets and specified off-balance sheet financial instruments into risk weighted categories (with higher levels of capital being required for the categories perceived as
representing greater risk), and is used to determine the amount of a financial institution’s total risk-weighted assets (“RWAs”).

Under the guidelines, capital is divided into two tiers: Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital. The amount of Tier 2 capital may not exceed the amount of Tier 1 capital. Total capital is
the sum of Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital. Under the guidelines, banking organizations are required to maintain a total capital ratio (total capital to RWA) of 8 percent and a Tier 1 capital ratio (Tier 1 capital to RWA)
of 4 percent. At December 31, 2011, the Company’s consolidated total capital ratio was 13.3 percent and its Tier 1 capital ratio was 10.8 percent. For a further description of these guidelines, see Note 15 of the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Company’s 2011 Annual Report.

The federal banking regulators also have
established minimum leverage ratio guidelines. The leverage ratio is defined as Tier 1 capital divided by adjusted average total assets. The minimum leverage ratio is 3 percent for bank holding companies that are considered
“strong” under Federal Reserve guidelines or which have implemented the Federal Reserve’s risk-based capital measure for market risk. Other bank holding companies must have a minimum leverage ratio of 4 percent. Bank holding
companies may be expected to maintain ratios well above the minimum levels, depending upon their particular condition, risk profile and growth plans. At December 31, 2011, the Company’s leverage ratio was 9.1 percent.

The Dodd-Frank Act effectively eliminated differences between the minimum capital requirements applicable to insured depository
institutions and their holding companies by phasing out the use of hybrid debt instruments (such as trust preferred securities) in determining holding company regulatory capital.

For additional information regarding the Company’s regulatory capital, see Capital Management in the Company’s 2011 Annual
Report on pages 55 to 56.

Capital Plan Requirement/Minimum Capital LevelIn 2011, the Federal Reserve issued a
final rule amending Regulation Y to require bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more to submit capital plans to the Federal Reserve on an annual basis. The Company submitted its first capital plan in January
2012. The Federal Reserve must object or provide notice of non-objection to the plan by March 31, 2012.

Companies
must demonstrate in their capital plans how they will maintain a minimum Tier 1 common ratio above 5 percent under stressful conditions using the Federal Reserve’s existing supervisory definition of Tier 1 common capital. If the
Federal Reserve objects to a capital plan and until such time as the Federal Reserve issues a non-objection to the bank holding company’s capital plan, the bank holding company may not make any capital distribution, other than those capital
distributions with respect to which the Federal Reserve has indicated its non-objection.

Basel III Capital
Requirements/Capital Surcharge/Additional Loss Absorbency Requirement/LiquidityIn June 2011, the Basel Committee revised the new capital and liquidity standards issued in October 2010, known






as Basel III. As of January 1, 2013, banks will be required to meet new minimum requirements in relation to RWAs. Minimum common equity and Tier 1 capital requirements will be phased in
between January 1, 2013 and January 1, 2015. A “capital conservation buffer” will be phased in between January 1, 2016 and December 31, 2018, becoming fully effective on January 1, 2019.

In early 2012, the Federal Reserve is expected to promulgate proposed rules implementing the new market risk capital requirements from
the Basel accords, to include book securitization and resecuritization elements and to adopt the Basel III framework. The Federal Reserve is expected to approve capital distributions only when they are consistent with a bank holding company
“readily and without difficulty” meeting the new capital requirements as they come into effect.

The Basel III
liquidity component sets out two minimum standards for funding liquidity: the Liquidity Coverage Ratio (“LCR”), which is designed to promote the short-term resilience of a bank’s liquidity risk profile by ensuring that it has
sufficient high-quality liquid assets to survive a significant stress scenario lasting for 30 calendar days; and the Net Stable Funding Ratio (“NSFR”), which is designed to promote longer-term resilience by requiring banks to have capital
or longer term high-quality funding so that the banks can survive over a one-year period of less severe stress. The LCR will be introduced on January 1, 2015. The NSFR will move to a minimum standard by January 1, 2018. The Federal Reserve
in its proposed rule for enhanced prudential standards has stated that it intends to implement these liquidity standards in the United States through one or more separate rules.

Stress TestingIn November 2011, the Federal Reserve launched its Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review process. The Federal
Reserve issued the macroeconomic and financial market scenarios it is requiring institutions to use to support the stress testing used in their capital plans. Institutions were required to submit their capital plans by January 9, 2012, and the
Company did so. The Federal Reserve will conduct a supervisory stress test for the 19 largest bank holding companies (including the Company) to help assess the capital plans and the appropriateness of capital levels for those companies. In January
2012, the OCC issued a proposed rule requiring national banks with more than $10 billion in total consolidated assets to conduct a separate annual stress test to help identify potential impact of adverse outcomes on the bank’s capital adequacy.

Risk-Based Capital Standards: Establishment of a Risk-Based Capital FloorIn June 2011, the OCC, the Federal Reserve
and the FDIC adopted a final rule to implement certain requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act, which require these agencies to establish minimum risk-based capital requirements on a consolidated basis for insured depository institutions. Under the rule,
banks and bank holding companies must maintain a minimum total risk-based capital ratio of 8.0 percent and a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 4.0 percent.

Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement ActThe Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (the “FDICIA”) provides a framework for regulation of
depository institutions and their affiliates (including parent holding companies) by federal banking regulators. As part of that framework, the FDICIA requires the relevant federal banking regulator to take “prompt corrective action” with
respect to a depository institution if that institution does not meet certain capital adequacy standards.

Supervisory actions
by the appropriate federal banking regulator under the “prompt corrective action” rules generally depend upon an institution’s classification within five capital categories. The regulations apply only to banks and not to bank holding
companies such as the Company; however, subject to limitations that may be imposed pursuant to the GLBA, the Federal Reserve is authorized to take appropriate action at the holding company level, based on the undercapitalized status of the holding
company’s subsidiary banking institutions. In certain instances relating to an undercapitalized banking institution, the bank holding company would be required to guarantee the performance of the undercapitalized subsidiary’s capital
restoration plan and could be liable for civil money damages for failure to fulfill those guarantee commitments.

Deposit
InsuranceUnder current FDIC regulations, each depository institution is assigned to a risk category based on capital and supervisory measures. In 2009, the FDIC revised the method for calculating the assessment rate for depository
institutions by introducing several adjustments to an institution’s initial base assessment rate.






A depository institution is assessed premiums by the FDIC based on its risk category and the amount of deposits held. Higher levels of bank failures have dramatically increased FDIC resolution
costs and depleted the deposit insurance fund. In addition, in 2008, the amount of FDIC insurance coverage for insured deposits was generally increased from $100,000 per depositor account ownership type to $250,000.

In light of the increased stress on the deposit insurance fund caused by these developments, and in order to maintain a strong funding
position and restore the reserve ratios of the deposit insurance fund, the FDIC (a) imposed a special assessment in June 2009, (b) increased assessment rates of insured institutions generally, and (c) required insured institutions to
prepay on December 30, 2009 the premiums that were expected to become due for 2010, 2011 and 2012. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act altered the assessment base for deposit insurance assessments from a deposit to an asset base, and seeks to fund
part of the cost of the Dodd-Frank Act by increasing the deposit insurance reserve fund to 1.35 percent of estimated insured deposits. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires that FDIC assessments be set in a manner that offsets the cost of the
assessment increases for institutions with consolidated assets of less than $10 billion. This provision effectively places the increased assessment costs on larger financial institutions such as the Company.

The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently increased deposit insurance coverage from $100,000 per account ownership type to $250,000, and
extended the unlimited insurance of non-interest bearing transaction accounts under the FDIC Transaction Account Guaranty program to January 1, 2013.

Deposit Insurance AssessmentsIn February 2011, the FDIC adopted a final rule implementing revisions to the Federal Deposit Insurance Act made by the Dodd-Frank Act, including a revision which
changes the assessment base for deposit insurance premiums, and which provides for use of a risk scorecard to determine deposit premiums. The effect of the rule was first reflected in the invoices for assessments due September 30, 2011, and
substantially increased the FDIC premiums paid by the Company’s banking subsidiaries.

Powers of the FDIC Upon
Insolvency of an Insured InstitutionIf the FDIC is appointed the conservator or receiver of an insured depository institution upon its insolvency or in certain other events, the FDIC has the power to (a) transfer any of the depository
institution’s assets and liabilities to a new obligor without the approval of the depository institution’s creditors; (b) enforce the terms of the depository institution’s contracts pursuant to their terms; or (c) repudiate
or disaffirm any contracts (if the FDIC determines that performance of the contract is burdensome and that the repudiation or disaffirmation is necessary to promote the orderly administration of the depository institution). These provisions would be
applicable to obligations and liabilities of the Company’s subsidiaries that are insured depository institutions, such as U.S. Bank National Association.

Depositor PreferenceUnder federal law, in the event of the liquidation or other resolution of an insured depository institution, the claims of a receiver of the institution for administrative
expense and the claims of holders of domestic deposit liabilities (including the FDIC, as subrogee of the depositors) have priority over the claims of other unsecured creditors of the institution, including holders of publicly issued senior or
subordinated debt and depositors in non-domestic offices. As a result, those noteholders and depositors would be treated differently from, and could receive, if anything, substantially less than, the depositors in domestic offices of the
depository.

Orderly Liquidation AuthorityThe FDIC issued a final rule effective August 15, 2011 to implement the
liquidation provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. The rule provides a comprehensive framework for the orderly liquidation of a covered financial company. A covered financial company is a financial company (including a bank holding company, but not an
insured depository), in situations where the Secretary of the Treasury determines (upon the written recommendation of the FDIC and the Federal Reserve and after consultation with the President) that the conditions set forth in the Dodd-Frank Act
regarding the impact of the financial company’s failure have been met. The rule sets forth a comprehensive method for the receivership of a covered financial company. The Company is a financial company and therefore is potentially subject to
the orderly liquidation authority of the FDIC. In preparation for the potential exercise of this authority, the FDIC created the Office of Complex Financial Institutions. Its duties include the continuous review and oversight of bank holding
companies with assets of more than $100 billion.






Resolution Plans

In
January 2012, the FDIC adopted a final rule requiring an insured depository institution with $50 billion or more in total assets to submit periodically to the FDIC a contingency plan for the resolution of such institution in the event of its
failure. The rule requires a covered depository institution to submit a resolution plan that should enable the FDIC, as receiver, to resolve the institution under applicable receivership provisions of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act in a manner
that ensures that depositors receive access to their insured deposits within one business day of the institution’s failure, maximizes the net present value return from the sale or disposition of its assets and minimizes the amount of any loss
to be realized by the institution’s creditors. The Company will be required to file both resolution plans in 2013.

Liability of Commonly Controlled InstitutionsAn FDIC-insured depository institution can be held liable for any loss incurred
or expected to be incurred by the FDIC in connection with another FDIC-insured institution under common control with that institution being “in default” or “in danger of default” (commonly referred to as
“cross-guarantee” liability). An FDIC claim for cross-guarantee liability against a depository institution is generally superior in right of payment to claims of the holding company and its affiliates against the depository institution.

Transactions with AffiliatesThere are various legal restrictions on the extent to which the Company and its
non-bank subsidiaries may borrow or otherwise obtain funding from the Company’s banking subsidiaries, including U.S. Bank National Association and U.S. Bank National Association ND. Under the Federal Reserve Act and Regulation W
of the Federal Reserve, the Company’s banking subsidiaries (and their subsidiaries) may only engage in lending and other “covered transactions” with non-bank and non-savings bank affiliates to the following extent: (a) in the
case of any single affiliate, the aggregate amount of covered transactions may not exceed 10 percent of the capital stock and surplus of the banking subsidiary; and (b) in the case of all affiliates, the aggregate amount of covered
transactions may not exceed 20 percent of the capital stock and surplus of the banking subsidiary.

Covered transactions
between the Company’s banking subsidiaries and their affiliates are also subject to certain collateralization requirements. All covered transactions, including transactions with a third party in which an affiliate of the banking subsidiary has
a financial interest, must be conducted on market terms. “Covered transactions” are defined to include (a) a loan or extension of credit by a bank subsidiary to an affiliate, (b) a purchase of securities issued to a banking
subsidiary by an affiliate, (c) a purchase of assets (unless otherwise exempted by the Federal Reserve) by the banking subsidiary from an affiliate, (d) the acceptance of securities issued by an affiliate to the banking subsidiary as
collateral for a loan, and (e) the issuance of a guarantee, acceptance or letter of credit by the banking subsidiary on behalf of an affiliate. The Dodd-Frank Act eliminated the special treatment for transactions with financial subsidiaries.






Anti-Money Laundering and Suspicious ActivitySeveral federal laws, including
the Bank Secrecy Act, the Money Laundering Control Act and the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (the “Patriot Act”) require all financial institutions
(including banks and securities broker-dealers) to, among other things, implement policies and procedures relating to anti-money laundering, compliance, suspicious activities, and currency transaction reporting and due diligence on customers. The
Patriot Act also requires federal bank regulators to evaluate the effectiveness of an applicant in combating money laundering when determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition.

Community Reinvestment ActThe Company’s banking subsidiaries are subject to the provisions of the CRA. Under the terms
of the CRA, the banks have a continuing and affirmative obligation, consistent with safe and sound operation, to help meet the credit needs of their communities, including providing credit to individuals residing in low- and moderate-income
neighborhoods. The CRA does not establish specific lending requirements or programs for financial institutions, and does not limit an institution’s discretion to develop the types of products and services that it believes are best suited to its
particular community in a manner consistent with the CRA.

The OCC regularly assesses each of the Company’s banking
subsidiaries on its record in meeting the credit needs of the community served by that institution, including low-income and moderate-income neighborhoods. The assessment also is considered when the Federal Reserve reviews applications by banking
institutions to acquire, merge or consolidate with another banking institution or its holding company, to establish a new branch office that will accept deposits or to relocate an office. In the case of a bank holding company applying for approval
to acquire a bank or other bank holding company, the Federal Reserve will assess the records of each subsidiary depository institution of the applicant bank holding company, and those records may be the basis for denying the application.

U.S. Bank National Association received an “outstanding” CRA rating and U.S. Bank National Association ND received a
“satisfactory” CRA rating in their most recent examinations, covering the periods from January 1, 2006 through December 31, 2008.

Regulation of Brokerage, Investment Advisory and Insurance ActivitiesThe Company conducts securities underwriting, dealing and brokerage activities in the United States through
U.S. Bancorp Investments, Inc. (“USBII”) and other subsidiaries. These activities are subject to regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority and other
authorities, including state regulators. These regulations generally include licensing of securities personnel, interactions with customers, trading operations and periodic examinations.

Securities regulators impose capital requirements on USBII and monitor its financial operations with periodical financial reviews. In
addition, USBII is a member of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation.

The operations of First American Funds money
market funds also are subject to regulation by the SEC. The Company’s operations in the areas of insurance brokerage and reinsurance of credit life insurance are subject to regulation and supervision by various state insurance regulatory
authorities, including the licensing of insurance brokers and agents.

Credit Risk RetentionThe Dodd-Frank Act
requires credit retention of 5 percent of any asset included in a securitization, or less than 5 percent if the assets meet underwriting standards established by regulation. Federal banking regulators are expected to issue final rules in 2012, which
could affect the Company’s assets generation and securitization strategies, especially for residential mortgages.

The
Volcker Rule — Proprietary Trading of Securities, Derivatives, and Certain other Financial InstrumentsIn October 2011, the SEC, the Federal Reserve, the OCC and the FDIC proposed a rule to implement the so called “Volcker Rule”
under the Dodd-Frank Act. The Volcker Rule prohibits banking entities from engaging in proprietary trading of securities, derivatives and certain other financial instruments for the entity’s own accord, and prohibits certain interests in, or
relationships with, a hedge fund or private equity fund. This rule will apply to the Company, its banking subsidiaries and their affiliates.

Financial PrivacyUnder the requirements imposed by the GLBA, the Company and its subsidiaries are required periodically to disclose to their retail customers the Company’s policies and
practices with respect to the






sharing of nonpublic customer information with its affiliates and others, and the confidentiality and security of that information. Under the GLBA, retail customers also must be given the
opportunity to “opt out” of information-sharing arrangements with nonaffiliates, subject to certain exceptions set forth in the GLBA.

Incentive-Based Compensation ArrangementsIn April 2011, the Federal Reserve, the OCC, the FDIC, the SEC, the National Credit Union Administration and the Federal Housing Finance Agency issued a
proposed rule under the Dodd-Frank Act that would require the reporting of incentive-based compensation arrangements by a covered financial institution, and prohibit incentive-based compensation arrangements at a covered financial institution that
provide excessive compensation or that could expose the institution to inappropriate risks that could lead to material financial loss.

The Bureau of Consumer Financial ProtectionIn July 2011, all consumer financial protection functions of the Federal Reserve, the OCC and the FDIC were transferred to the Bureau of Consumer
Financial Protection (the “Bureau”). All consumer protection functions of the Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development relating to the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the Secure and Fair Enforcement for Mortgage
Licensing Act, and the Interstate Land Sales Full Disclosure Act were also transferred to the Bureau at such time. In addition, the authority of the Federal Trade Commission to prescribe rules, issue guidelines or conduct a study or issue a report
mandated under such laws transferred to the Bureau. The Bureau has assumed all authority to prescribe rules or issue orders or guidelines pursuant to any federal consumer financial law. On July 21, 2011, the Bureau began an examination process
for insured depository financial institutions with assets over $10 billion, which includes the Company’s bank subsidiaries. The Bureau has authority to regulate the offering and provision of consumer financial products or services under the
federal consumer financial laws, and the Bureau is expected to undertake a number of rule-making and enforcement initiatives in 2012 under this authority.

Other Supervision and RegulationThe activities of U.S. Bank National Association and U.S. Bank National Association ND as consumer lenders also are subject to regulation under
various United States federal laws, including the Truth-in-Lending, Equal Credit Opportunity, Fair Credit Reporting, Fair Debt Collection Practice and Electronic Funds Transfer acts, as well as various state laws. These statutes impose
requirements on consumer loan origination and collection practices.

The Company is subject to the disclosure and regulatory
requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), both as administered by the SEC, by virtue of the Company’s status as a public company. As a listed
company on the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”), the Company is subject to the rules of the NYSE for listed companies.

Website Access to SEC Reports

U.S. Bancorp’s internet website can be found atusbank.com. U.S. Bancorp makes available free of charge on its website its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on
Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as well as all other reports filed by U.S. Bancorp with the SEC as soon as reasonably
practicable after electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC.

Additional Information

Additional information in response to this Item 1 can be found in the Company’s 2011 Annual Report on page 20 under the
heading “Acquisitions”; and on pages 57 to 62 under the heading “Line of Business Financial Review.” That information is incorporated into this report by reference.



