Item 1.Business

General Business Description

U.S. Bancorp (“U.S. Bancorp” or the “Company”) is a multi-state financial services holding company headquartered in Minneapolis, Minnesota. U.S. Bancorp was incorporated
in Delaware in 1929 and operates as a financial holding company and a bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956. U.S. Bancorp provides a full range of financial services, including lending and depository services, cash
management, capital markets, and trust and investment management services. It also engages in credit card services, merchant and ATM processing, mortgage banking, insurance, brokerage and leasing.

U.S. Bancorp’s banking subsidiaries are engaged in the general banking business, principally in domestic markets. The
subsidiaries range in size from $51 million to $254 billion in deposits and provide a wide range of products and services to individuals, businesses, institutional organizations, governmental entities and other financial institutions.
Commercial and consumer lending services are principally offered to customers within the Company’s domestic markets, to domestic customers with foreign operations and to large national customers focusing on specific targeted industries. Lending
services include traditional credit products as well as credit card services, leasing, financing and import/export trade, asset-backed lending, agricultural finance and other products. Depository services include checking accounts, savings accounts
and time certificate contracts. Ancillary services such as capital markets, treasury management and receivable lock-box collection are provided to corporate customers. U.S. Bancorp’s bank and trust subsidiaries provide a full range of
asset management and fiduciary services for individuals, estates, foundations, business corporations and charitable organizations.

U.S. Bancorp’s non-banking subsidiaries primarily offer investment and insurance products to the Company’s customers principally within its markets, and fund processing services to a broad
range of mutual and other funds.

Banking and investment services are provided through a network of 3,084
banking offices principally operating in the Midwest and West regions of the United States. The Company operates a network of 5,065 ATMs and provides 24-hour, seven day a week telephone customer service. Mortgage banking services are provided
through banking offices and loan production offices throughout the Company’s markets. Lending products may be originated through banking offices, indirect correspondents, brokers and other lending sources. The Company is also one of the largest
providers of Visa®corporate and purchasing card services and corporate trust services in the United States. A
wholly-owned subsidiary, Elavon, Inc. (“Elavon”), provides merchant processing services directly to merchants and through a network of banking affiliations. Affiliates of Elavon provide similar merchant services in Canada, Mexico, Brazil
and segments of Europe. These foreign operations are not significant to the Company.

On a full-time equivalent basis, as of
December 31, 2012, U.S. Bancorp employed 64,486 people.

Competition

The commercial banking business is highly competitive. The Company’s subsidiary banks compete with other commercial banks and with
other financial institutions, including savings and loan associations, mutual savings banks, finance companies, mortgage banking companies, credit unions and investment companies. In recent years, competition has increased from institutions not
subject to the same regulatory restrictions as domestic banks and bank holding companies. Competition is based on a number of factors including, among others, customer service, quality and range of products and services offered, price, reputation,
interest rates on loans and deposits, lending limits and customer convenience. The Company’s ability to continue to compete effectively also depends in large part on its ability to attract new employees and retain and motivate existing
employees, while managing compensation and other costs.






Government Policies

The operations of the Company’s various operating units are affected by federal and state legislative changes and by policies of various regulatory authorities, including those of the numerous states
in which they operate, the United States and foreign governments. These policies include, for example, statutory maximum legal lending rates, domestic monetary policies of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal
Reserve”), United States fiscal policy, international currency regulations and monetary policies and capital adequacy and liquidity constraints imposed by bank regulatory agencies.

Supervision and Regulation

U.S. Bancorp and its subsidiaries are subject
to the extensive regulatory framework applicable to bank holding companies and their subsidiaries. This regulatory framework is intended primarily for the protection of depositors, the deposit insurance fund of the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation (the “FDIC”), consumers and the stability of the financial system in the United States and the health of the national economy, and not for investors in bank holding companies such as the Company.

This section summarizes certain provisions of the principal laws and regulations applicable to the Company and its subsidiaries. The
descriptions are not intended to be complete and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of the statutes and regulations described below.

Substantial changes to the regulation of bank holding companies and their subsidiaries have occurred and will continue to occur as a result of the enactment in 2010 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform
and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”). Changes in applicable law or regulation, and in their application by regulatory agencies, have had and will continue to have a material effect on the business and results of the Company
and its subsidiaries.

Dodd-Frank ActThe Dodd-Frank Act significantly changed the regulatory framework for financial
services companies, and requires significant rulemaking and numerous studies and reports over the next several years. Among other things, it created a new Financial Stability Oversight Council (the “Council”) with broad authority to make
recommendations covering enhanced prudential standards and more stringent supervision for large bank holding companies and certain non-bank financial services companies. The Dodd-Frank Act significantly reduced interchange fees on debit card
transactions, changed the preemption of state laws applicable to national banks, increased the regulation of consumer mortgage banking and made numerous other changes, some of which are discussed below.

In addition to the Dodd-Frank Act, other legislative and regulatory proposals affecting banks have been made both domestically and
internationally. Among other things, these proposals include significant additional capital and liquidity requirements and limitations on size or types of activity in which banks may engage.

Federal Reserve RegulationThe Company elected to become a financial holding company as of March 13, 2000, pursuant to the
provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (the “GLBA”). Under the GLBA’s system of functional regulation, the Federal Reserve acts as an umbrella regulator for the Company, and certain of the Company’s subsidiaries are regulated
directly by additional agencies based on the particular activities of those subsidiaries. The Company’s banking subsidiaries are regulated by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the “OCC”) and also by the Federal Reserve
and the FDIC in certain areas. Supervision and regulation by the responsible regulatory agency generally includes comprehensive annual reviews of all major aspects of a bank’s business and condition, and imposition of periodic reporting
requirements and limitations on investments and certain types of activities.

If a financial holding company or a depository
institution controlled by a financial holding company ceases to meet certain capital or management standards, the Federal Reserve may impose corrective capital and






managerial requirements on the financial holding company, and may place limitations on its ability to conduct all of the business activities that financial holding companies are generally
permitted to conduct. See “Permissible Business Activities” below. If the failure to meet these standards persists, a financial holding company may be required to divest its depository institution subsidiaries, or cease all activities
other than those activities that may be conducted by bank holding companies that are not financial holding companies.

Federal
Reserve regulations also provide that, if any depository institution controlled by a financial holding company fails to maintain a satisfactory rating under the Community Reinvestment Act (“CRA”), the Federal Reserve must prohibit the
financial holding company and its subsidiaries from engaging in the additional activities in which only financial holding companies may engage. See “Community Reinvestment Act” below. At December 31, 2012, the Company’s
depository-institution subsidiaries met the capital, management and CRA requirements necessary to permit the Company to conduct the broader activities permitted for financial holding companies under the GLBA.

The Dodd-Frank Act codified existing Federal Reserve policy requiring the Company to act as a source of financial strength to its bank
subsidiaries, and to commit resources to support these subsidiaries in circumstances where it might not otherwise do so. However, because the GLBA provides for functional regulation of financial holding company activities by various regulators, the
GLBA prohibits the Federal Reserve from requiring payment by a holding company to a depository institution if the functional regulator of the depository institution objects to the payment. In those cases, the Federal Reserve could instead require
the divestiture of the depository institution and impose operating restrictions pending the divestiture. As a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, non-bank subsidiaries of a holding company that engage in activities permissible for an insured depository
institution must be examined and regulated in a manner that is at least as stringent as if the activities were conducted by the lead depository institution of the holding company.

Enhanced Prudential Standards/Early RemediationIn 2011, the Federal Reserve issued a proposed rule relating to enhanced
prudential standards required under the Dodd-Frank Act for bank holding companies with over $50 billion in consolidated assets. The prudential standards include enhanced risk-based capital and leverage requirements, enhanced liquidity requirements,
enhanced risk management and risk committee requirements, a requirement to submit a resolution plan, single-counterparty credit limits and stress tests. The proposal requires the Federal Reserve to conduct annual supervisory capital adequacy stress
tests of covered companies under baseline, adverse and severely adverse scenarios, and requires covered companies to conduct their own capital adequacy stress tests. The proposal would provide for notification to a covered company as to which the
Council has determined to impose a debt-to-equity ratio of no more than 15-to-1, based upon the determination by the Council that (a) such company poses a grave threat to the financial stability of the United States and (b) the imposition
of such a requirement is necessary to mitigate the risk that the company poses to the financial stability of the United States.

The proposed rule also provides, as required by the Dodd-Frank Act, for the early remediation of financial distress at covered companies
so as to minimize the probability that the company will become insolvent and to reduce the potential harm of the insolvency of a covered company to the financial stability of the United States. Remedies include, in the initial stages of financial
decline of the covered company, limits on capital distributions, acquisitions and asset growth. Remedies in the later stages of financial decline of the covered company include a capital restoration plan and capital-raising requirements, limits on
transactions with affiliates, management changes and asset sales. In addition to regulatory capital triggers, the proposed rule includes triggers based on supervisory stress test results, market indicators and weaknesses in enterprise-wide and
liquidity risk management.

Permissible Business ActivitiesAs a financial holding company, the Company may affiliate
with securities firms and insurance companies and engage in other activities that are financial in nature or incidental or complementary to activities that are financial in nature. “Financial in nature” activities include the following:
securities underwriting, dealing and market making; sponsoring mutual funds and investment companies;






insurance underwriting and agency; merchant banking; and activities that the Federal Reserve, in consultation with the Secretary of the United States Treasury, determines to be financial in
nature or incidental to such financial activity. “Complementary activities” are activities that the Federal Reserve determines upon application to be complementary to a financial activity and that do not pose a safety and soundness risk.

The Company generally is not required to obtain Federal Reserve approval to acquire a company (other than a bank holding
company, bank or savings association) engaged in activities that are financial in nature or incidental to activities that are financial in nature, as determined by the Federal Reserve. However, the Dodd-Frank Act added a provision requiring approval
if the total consolidated assets to be acquired exceed $10 billion. Financial holding companies are also required to obtain the approval of the Federal Reserve before they may acquire more than 5 percent of the voting shares or substantially all of
the assets of an unaffiliated bank holding company, bank or savings association.

Interstate BankingUnder the
Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994 (the “Riegle-Neal Act”), a bank holding company may acquire banks in states other than its home state, subject to any state requirement that the bank has been organized
and operating for a minimum period of time (not to exceed five years). Also, such an acquisition is not permitted if the bank holding company controls, prior to or following the proposed acquisition, more than 10 percent of the total amount of
deposits of insured depository institutions nationwide, or, if the acquisition is the bank holding company’s initial entry into the state, more than 30 percent of the deposits of insured depository institutions in the state (or any lesser or
greater amount set by the state).

The Riegle-Neal Act also authorizes banks to merge across state lines to create interstate
branches. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, banks are permitted to establish new branches in another state to the same extent as banks chartered in that state.

Regulatory Approval for AcquisitionsIn determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition, federal bank regulators will consider a number of factors, including the following: the effect of
the acquisition on competition, financial condition and future prospects (including current and projected capital ratios and levels); the competence, experience and integrity of management and its record of compliance with laws and regulations; the
convenience and needs of the communities to be served (including the acquiring institution’s record of compliance under the CRA); and the effectiveness of the acquiring institution in combating money laundering activities. In addition, under
the Dodd-Frank Act, approval of interstate transactions requires that the acquiror satisfy regulatory standards for well capitalized and well managed institutions.

Dividend RestrictionsThe Company is a legal entity separate and distinct from its subsidiaries. Typically, the majority of the Company’s operating funds are received in the form of dividends
paid to the Company by U.S. Bank National Association, its principal banking subsidiary. Federal law imposes limitations on the payment of dividends by national banks.

Dividends payable by U.S. Bank National Association, U.S. Bank National Association ND and the Company’s trust bank subsidiaries, as national banking associations, are limited to the lesser of the
amounts calculated under a “recent earnings” test and an “undivided profits” test. Under the recent earnings test, a dividend may not be paid if the total of all dividends declared by a bank in any calendar year is in excess of
the current year’s net income combined with the retained net income of the two preceding years, unless the bank obtains the approval of the OCC. Under the undivided profits test, a dividend may not be paid in excess of a bank’s
“undivided profits.” See Note 22 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Company’s 2012 Annual Report for the amount of dividends that the Company’s principal banking subsidiaries could pay to the
Company at December 31, 2012, without the approval of their banking regulators.

In addition to the dividend restrictions
described above, the OCC, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC have authority to prohibit or limit the payment of dividends by the banking organizations they supervise (including the Company and its bank subsidiaries), if, in the banking
regulator’s opinion, payment of a dividend would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice in light of the financial condition of the banking organization. Subject to






exceptions for well capitalized and well managed holding companies, Federal Reserve regulations also require approval of holding company purchases and redemptions of its securities if the gross
consideration paid exceeds 10 percent of consolidated net worth for any 12-month period.

In addition, Federal Reserve policy
on the payment of dividends, stock redemptions and stock repurchases requires that bank holding companies consult with and inform the Federal Reserve in advance of doing any of the following: declaring and paying dividends that could raise safety
and soundness concerns (e.g., declaring and paying dividends that exceed earnings for the period for which dividends are being paid); redeeming or repurchasing capital instruments when experiencing financial weakness; and redeeming or repurchasing
common stock and perpetual preferred stock, if the result will be a net reduction in the amount of such capital instruments outstanding for the quarter in which the reduction occurs.

In 2010, the Federal Reserve issued an addendum to its policy on dividends, stock redemptions and stock repurchases that is specifically
applicable to the 19 largest bank holding companies (including the Company) that are covered by the Supervisory Capital Assessment Program. The addendum provides for Federal Reserve review of dividend increases, implementation of capital repurchase
programs and other capital repurchases or redemptions.

Capital RequirementsThe Company is subject to regulatory
capital requirements (the Basel I or general risk-based capital rules) established by the Federal Reserve, and the Company’s subsidiary banks are subject to substantially similar rules established by the OCC. These requirements are currently
the subject of significant changes as a result of the Basel capital proposals and the implementation of these proposals by banking regulators in the United States. Regulatory capital requirements will also change due to implementation of the
provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. Minimum regulatory capital levels are expected to significantly increase as these requirements are adopted and implemented.

Federal banking regulators have adopted risk-based capital and leverage guidelines that require the capital-to-assets ratios of financial institutions to meet certain minimum standards. The risk-based
capital ratio is calculated by allocating assets and specified off-balance sheet financial instruments into risk weighted categories (with higher levels of capital being required for the categories perceived as representing greater risk), and is
used to determine the amount of a financial institution’s total risk-weighted assets (“RWAs”).

Under the
guidelines, capital is divided into two tiers: Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital. The amount of Tier 2 capital may not exceed the amount of Tier 1 capital. Total capital is the sum of Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital.
Under the guidelines, banking organizations are required to maintain a total capital ratio (total capital to RWA) of 8 percent and a Tier 1 capital ratio (Tier 1 capital to RWA) of 4 percent. At December 31, 2012, the Company’s
consolidated total capital ratio was 13.1 percent and its Tier 1 capital ratio was 10.8 percent. For a further description of these guidelines, see Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Company’s 2012 Annual
Report.

The federal banking regulators also have established minimum leverage ratio guidelines. The leverage ratio is defined
as Tier 1 capital divided by adjusted average total assets. The minimum leverage ratio is 3 percent for bank holding companies that are considered “strong” under Federal Reserve guidelines or which have implemented the Federal
Reserve’s risk-based capital measure for market risk. Other bank holding companies must have a minimum leverage ratio of 4 percent. Bank holding companies may be expected to maintain ratios well above the minimum levels, depending upon their
particular condition, risk profile and growth plans. At December 31, 2012, the Company’s leverage ratio was 9.2 percent.

The Dodd-Frank Act effectively eliminated differences between the minimum capital requirements applicable to insured depository institutions and their holding companies by phasing out the use of hybrid
debt instruments (such as trust preferred securities) in determining holding company regulatory capital.






For additional information regarding the Company’s regulatory capital, see Capital
Management in the Company’s 2012 Annual Report on pages 58 to 59.

Basel II and IIIThe Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision (the “BCBS”) is an international organization which has the goal of creating international standards for banking regulation. The Federal Reserve and the OCC approved a final rule in 2007 adopting international guidelines
established by the BCBS known as “Basel II.” Basel II established three guiding principles: (a) capital adequacy, (b) supervisory review (including the computation of capital and internal assessment processes), and
(c) market discipline (including increased disclosure requirements). The Company began the parallel run phase of its Basel II implementation process in 2011. The Company must complete the parallel run to the satisfaction of the Federal Reserve
and the OCC before it may use the Basel II advanced approaches to calculate its risk-based capital requirements.

In December
2010, the BCBS issued a new set of international guidelines for determining regulatory capital known as “Basel III.” These guidelines were revised in June 2011. The Basel III capital guidelines increase minimum capital
requirements, and when fully implemented, will require bank holding companies to maintain a minimum ratio of Tier 1 common equity to risk-weighted assets of at least 4.5 percent plus a 2.5 percent capital conservation buffer.

The Federal Reserve and the OCC issued three notices of proposed rulemaking in June 2012 (the “Basel III NPRs”) that would
revise the regulatory risk-based capital and leverage requirements for banks in the United States consistent with the BCBS proposals. The proposed revisions include the implementation of a more conservative definition of capital, a new common equity
Tier 1 minimum capital requirement, a higher minimum Tier 1 capital requirement, and a supplementary leverage ratio. Also, consistent with Basel III, the Federal Reserve and the OCC have proposed limiting capital distributions and certain
discretionary bonus payments to executives if banks do not maintain specified capital buffers in addition to meeting minimum risk-based capital requirements. In addition, the regulators have proposed to revise the calculation of risk-weighted assets
under the general risk-based capital rule applicable to all banks and the calculation of the Basel II advanced approach risk-based capital rules, both of which apply to the Company.

The Basel III NPRs provided for an implementation date of January 1, 2013 and a transition period extending to 2019. However, the
regulators have delayed the finalization of the proposals. At present, there is no indication from the Federal Reserve and the OCC as to when the final rules will be published or the implications that this delay will have on implementation or the
transition period.

Comprehensive Capital Analysis and ReviewThe Federal Reserve’s Capital Plans rule requires
large bank holding companies with assets in excess of $50 billion to submit capital plans to the Federal Reserve on an annual basis and to obtain approval from the Federal Reserve for capital distributions projected in the capital plan. The
Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (“CCAR”) of the Company’s capital plan consists of a number of mandatory elements, including an assessment of the Company’s sources and uses of capital over a nine-quarter planning
horizon assuming both expected and stressful conditions; a detailed description of the Company’s process for assessing capital adequacy; a demonstration of the Company’s ability to maintain capital above each minimum regulatory capital
ratio and above a Tier 1 common ratio of 5 percent under expected and stressful conditions; and a demonstration of the Company’s ability to achieve, readily and without difficulty, the capital ratios required by the Basel III framework as it
comes into effect in the United States.

The Company submitted its 2013 capital plan to the Federal Reserve on January 6,
2013, in accordance with instructions from the Federal Reserve. Applicable stress testing rules require the Federal Reserve to publish the results of its assessment of the Company’s capital plan, including its planned capital distributions, no
later than March 31, 2013.

Stress TestingThe stress testing required as part of the CCAR process includes
company-run stress tests employing stress scenarios developed by the Company as well as stress scenarios provided by the Federal






Reserve. The Company also submits stress tests incorporating the Dodd-Frank Act capital actions, which are intended to normalize capital distributions across bank holding companies. The Federal
Reserve also conducts a supervisory stress test employing its severely adverse stress scenario and its internal supervisory models, which incorporates both the Company’s planned capital actions and the Dodd-Frank Act capital actions. The
Federal Reserve and the Company are required to publish the results of the annual supervisory and annual company-run stress tests (for severely adverse scenarios only), respectively, no later than March 31 of each year. In addition to the
stress tests produced in connection with the CCAR, all large bank holding companies are also required to submit a mid-cycle company-run stress test based on stress scenarios developed by the Company. The results of this stress test must be submitted
to the Federal Reserve for review in early July of each year. The Company is required to publish its results of this stress test no later than the end of September of each year.

Depository institutions with assets in excess of $50 billion are required to submit an annual company-run stress test which runs
concurrently with, and is submitted at the same time as, the CCAR. The stress test is based on the OCC’s stress scenario assumptions and capital actions that are appropriate for the economic conditions assumed in each scenario. The
Company’s principal banking subsidiary, U.S. Bank National Association, submitted its stress test in accordance with regulatory requirements in January 2013. The Company is required to publish the results of this stress test no later than
March 31, 2013.

Basel III Liquidity ProposalsThe BCBS proposed in 2009 two minimum standards for limiting
liquidity risk: The Liquidity Coverage Ratio (“LCR”) and the Net Stable Funding Ratio (“NSFR”). The LCR is designed to ensure that bank holding companies have sufficient high-quality liquid assets to survive a significant
liquidity stress event lasting for 30 calendar days. The NSFR is designed to promote stable, longer-term funding of assets and business activities over a one-year time horizon. In January 2012, the BCBS further revised the proposals and delayed the
implementation date to January 1, 2015; the requirements would be phased in over the next four succeeding years. Domestic regulators are expected to issue a notice of proposed rulemaking defining the LCR and NSFR for United States implementation
sometime in the future.

Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement ActThe Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (the “FDICIA”) provides a framework for regulation of depository institutions and their affiliates (including parent holding companies) by federal banking regulators. As part of that framework, the
FDICIA requires the relevant federal banking regulator to take “prompt corrective action” with respect to a depository institution if that institution does not meet certain capital adequacy standards.

Supervisory actions by the appropriate federal banking regulator under the “prompt corrective action” rules generally depend
upon an institution’s classification within five capital categories. The regulations apply only to banks and not to bank holding companies such as the Company; however, subject to limitations that may be imposed pursuant to the GLBA, the
Federal Reserve is authorized to take appropriate action at the holding company level, based on the undercapitalized status of the holding company’s subsidiary banking institutions. In certain instances relating to an undercapitalized banking
institution, the bank holding company would be required to guarantee the performance of the undercapitalized subsidiary’s capital restoration plan and could be liable for civil money damages for failure to fulfill those guarantee commitments.

Deposit InsuranceUnder current FDIC regulations, each depository institution is assigned to a risk category based on
capital and supervisory measures. A depository institution is assessed premiums by the FDIC based on its risk category and the amount of deposits held. In 2009, the FDIC revised the method for calculating the assessment rate for depository
institutions by introducing several adjustments to an institution’s initial base assessment rate. The Dodd-Frank Act altered the assessment base for deposit insurance assessments from a deposit to an asset base, and seeks to fund part of the
cost of the Dodd-Frank Act by increasing the deposit insurance reserve fund to 1.35 percent of estimated insured deposits. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires that FDIC assessments be set in a manner that offsets the cost of the assessment increases
for institutions with consolidated assets of less than $10 billion. This provision effectively places the increased assessment costs on larger financial institutions such as the Company.






The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently increased deposit insurance coverage from $100,000 per
account ownership type to $250,000, and extended the unlimited insurance of non-interest bearing transaction accounts under the FDIC Transaction Account Guaranty program to January 1, 2013. In February 2011, the FDIC adopted a final rule
implementing the Dodd-Frank Act provisions, which provides for use of a risk scorecard to determine deposit premiums. The effect of the rule was to increase the FDIC premiums paid by the Company’s banking subsidiaries.

Powers of the FDIC Upon Insolvency of an Insured InstitutionIf the FDIC is appointed the conservator or receiver of an insured
depository institution upon its insolvency or in certain other events, the FDIC has the power to (a) transfer any of the depository institution’s assets and liabilities to a new obligor without the approval of the depository
institution’s creditors; (b) enforce the terms of the depository institution’s contracts pursuant to their terms; or (c) repudiate or disaffirm any contracts (if the FDIC determines that performance of the contract is burdensome
and that the repudiation or disaffirmation is necessary to promote the orderly administration of the depository institution). These provisions would be applicable to obligations and liabilities of the Company’s subsidiaries that are insured
depository institutions, such as U.S. Bank National Association.

Depositor PreferenceUnder federal law, in the event
of the liquidation or other resolution of an insured depository institution, the claims of a receiver of the institution for administrative expense and the claims of holders of domestic deposit liabilities (including the FDIC, as subrogee of the
depositors) have priority over the claims of other unsecured creditors of the institution, including holders of publicly issued senior or subordinated debt and depositors in non-domestic offices. As a result, those noteholders and depositors would
be treated differently from, and could receive, if anything, substantially less than, the depositors in domestic offices of the depository.

Orderly Liquidation AuthorityIn 2011, under the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC adopted a rule providing for a comprehensive framework for the orderly liquidation of a covered financial company. A
covered financial company is a financial company (including a bank holding company, but not an insured depository), in situations where the Secretary of the Treasury determines (upon the written recommendation of the FDIC and the Federal Reserve and
after consultation with the President) that the conditions set forth in the Dodd-Frank Act regarding the impact of the financial company’s failure have been met. The rule sets forth a comprehensive method for the receivership of a covered
financial company. The Company is a financial company and therefore is potentially subject to the orderly liquidation authority of the FDIC. In preparation for the potential exercise of this authority, the FDIC created the Office of Complex
Financial Institutions. Its duties include the continuous review and oversight of bank holding companies with assets of more than $100 billion.

Resolution Plans

In January 2012, the FDIC adopted a final rule requiring an insured depository institution with $50 billion or more in
total assets to submit periodically to the FDIC a contingency plan for the resolution of such institution in






the event of its failure. The rule requires a covered depository institution to submit a resolution plan that should enable the FDIC, as receiver, to resolve the institution under applicable
receivership provisions of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act in a manner that ensures that depositors receive access to their insured deposits within one business day of the institution’s failure, maximizes the net present value return from the
sale or disposition of its assets and minimizes the amount of any loss to be realized by the institution’s creditors. The Company will be required to file both resolution plans in December 2013.

Liability of Commonly Controlled InstitutionsAn FDIC-insured depository institution can be held liable for any loss incurred or
expected to be incurred by the FDIC in connection with another FDIC-insured institution under common control with that institution being “in default” or “in danger of default” (commonly referred to as “cross-guarantee”
liability). An FDIC claim for cross-guarantee liability against a depository institution is generally superior in right of payment to claims of the holding company and its affiliates against the depository institution.

Transactions with AffiliatesThere are various legal restrictions on the extent to which the Company and its non-bank subsidiaries
may borrow or otherwise obtain funding from the Company’s banking subsidiaries, including U.S. Bank National Association and U.S. Bank National Association ND. Under the Federal Reserve Act and Regulation W of the Federal Reserve, the
Company’s banking subsidiaries (and their subsidiaries) may only engage in lending and other “covered transactions” with non-bank and non-savings bank affiliates to the following extent: (a) in the case of any single affiliate,
the aggregate amount of covered transactions may not exceed 10 percent of the capital stock and surplus of the banking subsidiary; and (b) in the case of all affiliates, the aggregate amount of covered transactions may not exceed 20 percent of
the capital stock and surplus of the banking subsidiary.

Covered transactions between the Company’s banking subsidiaries
and their affiliates are also subject to certain collateralization requirements. All covered transactions, including transactions with a third party in which an affiliate of the banking subsidiary has a financial interest, must be conducted on
market terms. “Covered transactions” are defined to include (a) a loan or extension of credit by a bank subsidiary to an affiliate, (b) a purchase of securities issued to a banking subsidiary by an affiliate, (c) a purchase
of assets (unless otherwise exempted by the Federal Reserve) by the banking subsidiary from an affiliate, (d) the acceptance of securities issued by an affiliate to the banking subsidiary as collateral for a loan, and (e) the issuance of a
guarantee, acceptance or letter of credit by the banking subsidiary on behalf of an affiliate. The Dodd-Frank Act eliminated the special treatment for transactions with financial subsidiaries and added derivative and securities lending transactions
to the definition of “covered transactions.”

Anti-Money Laundering and Suspicious ActivitySeveral federal
laws, including the Bank Secrecy Act, the Money Laundering Control Act and the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (the “Patriot Act”) require all
financial institutions (including banks and securities broker-dealers) to, among other things, implement policies and procedures relating to anti-money laundering, compliance, suspicious activities, and currency transaction reporting and due
diligence on customers. The Patriot Act also requires federal bank regulators to evaluate the effectiveness of an applicant in combating money laundering when determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition.

Community Reinvestment ActThe Company’s banking subsidiaries are subject to the provisions of the CRA. Under the terms of
the CRA, the banks have a continuing and affirmative obligation, consistent with safe and sound operation, to help meet the credit needs of their communities, including providing credit to individuals residing in low- and moderate-income
neighborhoods. The CRA does not establish specific lending requirements or programs for financial institutions, and does not limit an institution’s discretion to develop the types of products and services that it believes are best suited to its
particular community in a manner consistent with the CRA.

The OCC regularly assesses each of the Company’s banking
subsidiaries on its record in meeting the credit needs of the community served by that institution, including low-income and moderate-income neighborhoods.






The assessment also is considered when the Federal Reserve reviews applications by banking institutions to acquire, merge or consolidate with another banking institution or its holding company,
to establish a new branch office that will accept deposits or to relocate an office. In the case of a bank holding company applying for approval to acquire a bank or other bank holding company, the Federal Reserve will assess the records of each
subsidiary depository institution of the applicant bank holding company, and those records may be the basis for denying the application.

U.S. Bank National Association received an “outstanding” CRA rating and U.S. Bank National Association ND received a “satisfactory” CRA rating in their most recent examinations,
covering the periods from January 1, 2006 through December 31, 2008.

Regulation of Brokerage, Investment
Advisory and Insurance ActivitiesThe Company conducts securities underwriting, dealing and brokerage activities in the United States through U.S. Bancorp Investments, Inc. (“USBII”) and other subsidiaries. These activities are subject
to regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority and other authorities, including state regulators. These regulations generally include licensing of securities personnel,
interactions with customers, trading operations and periodic examinations.

Securities regulators impose capital requirements
on USBII and monitor its financial operations with periodic financial reviews. In addition, USBII is a member of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation.

The operations of First American Funds money market funds also are subject to regulation by the SEC.

The Company’s operations in the areas of insurance brokerage and reinsurance of credit life insurance are subject to regulation and supervision by various state insurance regulatory authorities,
including the licensing of insurance brokers and agents.

Regulation of Derivatives and the Swap MarketplaceUnder the
Dodd-Frank Act, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the “CFTC”) has issued, and will issue additional rules regarding the regulation of the swaps marketplace. The rules require swap dealers to register with the CFTC and will require
them to meet robust business conduct standards to lower risk and promote market integrity, to meet certain recordkeeping and reporting requirements so that regulators can better monitor the markets, and to be subject to certain capital and margin
requirements. On December 31, 2012, the Company’s primary banking subsidiary, U.S. Bank National Association, became a registered swap dealer.

The Volcker Rule — Proprietary Trading of Securities, Derivatives, and Certain other Financial InstrumentsIn 2012, the SEC, the Federal Reserve, the OCC and the FDIC proposed a rule to
implement the so-called “Volcker Rule” under the Dodd-Frank Act. The Volcker Rule prohibits banking entities from engaging in proprietary trading of securities, derivatives and certain other financial instruments for the entity’s own
accord, and prohibits certain interests in, or relationships with, a hedge fund or private equity fund. This rule will apply to the Company, its banking subsidiaries and their affiliates. The requirements will become effective in July 2014. This
rule is expected to be issued in final form in 2013.

Financial PrivacyUnder the requirements imposed by the GLBA, the
Company and its subsidiaries are required periodically to disclose to their retail customers the Company’s policies and practices with respect to the sharing of nonpublic customer information with its affiliates and others, and the
confidentiality and security of that information. Under the GLBA, retail customers also must be given the opportunity to “opt out” of information-sharing arrangements with nonaffiliates, subject to certain exceptions set forth in the GLBA.

Incentive-Based Compensation ArrangementsIn April 2011, the Federal Reserve, the OCC, the FDIC, the SEC, the National
Credit Union Administration and the Federal Housing Finance Agency issued a proposed rule under the Dodd-Frank Act that would require the reporting of incentive-based compensation arrangements by a






covered financial institution, and prohibit incentive-based compensation arrangements at a covered financial institution that provide excessive compensation or that could expose the institution
to inappropriate risks that could lead to material financial loss.

Consumer Financial Protection BureauUnder the
Dodd-Frank Act, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the “CFPB”) has assumed all authority to prescribe rules or issue orders or guidelines pursuant to any federal consumer financial law. The CFPB regulates and examines the Company
and its banks and other subsidiaries with respect to matters that relate to these laws and consumer financial services and products. The CFPB undertook numerous rule-making and other initiatives in 2012, and will continue to do so in 2013. The
CFPB’s rulemaking, examination and enforcement authority is expected to significantly affect financial institutions involved in the provision of consumer financial products and services, including the Company and its subsidiary banks and
companies. In January 2013, select final rules required by the Dodd-Frank Act were issued related to residential mortgage origination and servicing. The substance of these rules go into effect January 2014.

Other Supervision and RegulationThe activities of U.S. Bank National Association and U.S. Bank National Association ND, as
consumer lenders, are also subject to regulation under numerous United States federal laws and state consumer protection statutes.

The Company is subject to the disclosure and regulatory requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), both as
administered by the SEC, by virtue of the Company’s status as a public company. As a listed company on the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”), the Company is subject to the rules of the NYSE for listed companies.

Website Access to SEC Reports

U.S. Bancorp’s internet website can be found atusbank.com. U.S. Bancorp makes available free of charge on its website its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on
Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as well as all other reports filed by U.S. Bancorp with the SEC as soon as reasonably
practicable after electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC.

Additional Information

Additional information in response to this Item 1 can be found in the Company’s 2012 Annual Report on page 22 under the
heading “Acquisitions”; and on pages 61 to 65 under the heading “Line of Business Financial Review.” That information is incorporated into this report by reference.



