Item 1A. Risk Factors Related to BB&T’s Business

Changes in national, regional and local economic conditions
could lead to higher loan charge-offs and reduce BB&T’s net income and growth.

BB&T’s business is subject to periodic fluctuations based on national, regional and local economic conditions. These fluctuations are not predictable, cannot be controlled, and may have a
material adverse impact on the Company’s operations and financial condition even if other favorable events occur. BB&T’s banking operations are locally oriented and community-based. Accordingly, the Company expects to continue to be
dependent upon



local business conditions as well as conditions in the local residential and commercial real estate markets it serves. For example, an increase in unemployment, a decrease in real estate values
or increases in interest rates, as well as other factors, could weaken the economies of the communities BB&T serves. Weakness in BB&T’s market area could depress the Company’s earnings and consequently its financial condition
because:

·

customers may not want or need BB&T’s products or services;

·

borrowers may not be able or willing to repay their loans;

·

the value of the collateral securing loans to borrowers may decline; and

·

the quality of BB&T’s loan portfolio may decline.

Any of the latter three scenarios could require the Company to charge off a higher percentage of loans and/or
increase provisions for credit losses, which would reduce the Company’s net income. For example, beginning in 2007 and continuing through 2009, BB&T experienced increasing credit deterioration due to ongoing challenges in the residential
real estate markets. This period of credit deterioration combined with flat to declining real estate values resulted in increasing loan charge-offs and higher provisions for credit losses, which negatively impacted BB&T’s net income.

In connection with the agreement between the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) and the Company to acquire certain assets and assume substantially all of the deposits and certain liabilities of Colonial Bank, an Alabama state-chartered bank headquartered in Montgomery,
Alabama (“Colonial”), Branch Bank acquired a significant portfolio of loans. Although Branch Bank marked down the acquired loan portfolio to estimated fair value, there is no assurance that the loans acquired will not suffer further
deterioration in value resulting in additional charge-offs to this loan portfolio. Fluctuations in national, regional and local economic conditions, including those related to local residential real estate, commercial real estate and construction
markets may increase the level of charge-offs on the loan portfolio that was acquired in the acquisition of Colonial and correspondingly reduce BB&T’s net income. These fluctuations are not predictable, cannot be controlled and may have a
material adverse impact on BB&T’s operations and financial condition even if other favorable events occur. Although Branch Bank entered into loss sharing agreements with the FDIC, which provide that a significant portion of losses related
to specified loan portfolios that were acquired in connection with the acquisition of Colonial will be borne by the FDIC, Branch Bank is not protected for all losses resulting from charge-offs with respect to those specified loan portfolios.
Additionally, the loss sharing agreements have limited terms; therefore, any charge-off of related losses that Branch Bank experiences after the term of the loss sharing agreements will not be reimbursed by the FDIC and will negatively impact
BB&T’s net income. In connection with the acquisition of Colonial, Branch Bank also acquired certain loan portfolios that are not subject to the loss sharing agreements. Any charge-offs related to these loan portfolios will be borne by
Branch Bank in full and would also negatively impact BB&T’s net income.

BB&T will be expanding operations into new geographic areas.

Portions of the market areas served by Colonial, including market areas in Alabama, Florida and Texas, are areas in which BB&T
historically conducted limited or no banking activities. In particular, Colonial had significant operations in Alabama, where BB&T previously had a very limited presence. BB&T must effectively integrate these new markets to retain and expand
the business previously conducted by Colonial. The ability to compete effectively in the new markets will be dependent on BB&T’s ability to understand the local market and competitive dynamics and identify and retain certain employees from
Colonial who know their markets better than BB&T does.

Weakness in the markets for residential or commercial real estate, including the secondary residential mortgage loan markets, could reduce BB&T’s net income and profitability.

Since 2007, softening residential housing markets, increasing
delinquency and default rates, and increasingly volatile and constrained secondary credit markets have been negatively impacting the mortgage industry. BB&T’s financial results have been adversely affected by changes in real estate values,
primarily in Georgia, Florida and metro Washington, D.C., with some deterioration in the coastal areas of the Carolinas. Decreases in real estate values have adversely affected the value of property used as collateral for loans and investments in
BB&T’s portfolio. The poor economic conditions experienced in 2007 through 2009 resulted in decreased demand for real estate loans, and BB&T’s net income and profits have suffered as a result.



The declines in home prices in many markets across the U.S., including a number of markets
in BB&T’s banking footprint (primarily in Georgia, Florida, and metro Washington, D.C., with some deterioration in the coastal areas of the Carolinas), along with the reduced availability of mortgage credit, also has resulted in increases
in delinquencies and losses in BB&T’s portfolio of loans related to residential real estate, including its acquisition, development and construction loan portfolio. Further declines in home prices within BB&T’s banking footprint
(including markets that to date have not experienced significant declines) coupled with the continued impact of the economic recession and high unemployment levels could drive losses beyond the levels provided for in BB&T’s allowance for
loan losses. In that event, BB&T’s future earnings would be adversely affected.

Significant ongoing disruption in the secondary market for residential mortgage loans has limited the market for and liquidity of most mortgage loans other than conforming Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and
Ginnie Mae loans. The effects of ongoing mortgage market challenges, combined with the ongoing correction in residential real estate market prices and reduced levels of home sales has resulted in price reductions in single family home values,
adversely affecting the value of collateral securing mortgage loans held and mortgage loan originations. Continued declines in real estate values and home sales volumes within BB&T’s banking footprint, and financial stress on borrowers as a
result of job losses, or other factors, could have further adverse effects on borrowers that result in higher delinquencies and greater charge-offs in future periods, which would adversely affect BB&T’s financial condition and results of
operations.

The Colonial acquisition has increased Branch
Bank’s commercial real estate and construction loan portfolio, which have a greater credit risk than residential mortgage loans.

With the acquisition of the Colonial loan portfolio, the commercial real estate loan and construction loan portfolios have become a larger
portion of Branch Bank’s total loan portfolio than it was prior to the Colonial acquisition. This type of lending is generally considered to have more complex credit risks than traditional single-family residential lending, because the
principal is concentrated in a limited number of loans with repayment dependent on the successful operation of the related real estate or construction project. Consequently, these loans are more sensitive to the current adverse conditions in the
real estate market and the general economy. These loans are generally less predictable, more difficult to evaluate and monitor, and collateral may be more difficult to dispose of in a market decline. However, the negative economic aspects of these
risks are substantially reduced as a result of the FDIC loss sharing agreements.

Increases in FDIC insurance premiums may adversely affect BB&T’s net income and profitability.

During 2008 and continuing in 2009, higher levels of bank failures have dramatically increased resolution costs of the FDIC and depleted the
deposit insurance fund. In addition, the FDIC instituted two temporary programs to further insure customer deposits at FDIC insured banks: deposit accounts are now insured up to $250,000 per customer (up from $100,000) and noninterest-bearing
transactional accounts are currently fully insured (unlimited coverage). These programs have placed additional stress on the deposit insurance fund. In order to maintain a strong funding position and restore reserve ratios of the deposit insurance
fund, the FDIC has increased assessment rates of insured institutions. In addition, on November 12, 2009, the FDIC adopted a rule requiring banks to prepay three years’ worth of estimated deposit insurance premiums by December 31,
2009. BB&T is generally unable to control the amount of premiums that the Company is required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there are additional bank or financial institution failures, or the cost of resolving prior failures exceeds
expectations, the Company may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the recently increased levels. These announced increases and any future increases or required prepayments of FDIC insurance premiums may adversely impact BB&T’s
earnings and financial condition.

Market developments may
adversely affect BB&T’s industry, business and results of operations.

Significant declines in the housing market, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by many financial institutions,
including government-sponsored entities and major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other derivative securities, caused many financial institutions
to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. BB&T has produced quarterly earnings during 2008 and 2009; however, during this time BB&T has



experienced significant challenges, its credit quality has deteriorated and its net income and results of operations have been adversely impacted. Reflecting concern about the stability of the
financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced, and in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers including other financial institutions. Although to date BB&T has
performed relatively well during the current financial crisis as compared with the Company’s peers and several of the largest financial institutions, BB&T is part of the financial system and a systemic lack of available credit, a lack of
confidence in the financial sector, increased volatility in the financial markets and/or reduced business activity could materially adversely affect BB&T’s business, financial condition and results of operations.

The capital and credit markets have experienced unprecedented levels of
volatility.

During the economic downturn,
the capital and credit markets experienced extended volatility and disruption. In some cases, the markets produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit capacity for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial
strength. If these levels of market disruption and volatility continue, worsen or abate and then arise at a later date, BB&T’s ability to access capital could be materially impaired. BB&T’s inability to access the capital markets
could constrain the Company’s ability to make new loans, to meet the Company’s existing lending commitments and, ultimately jeopardize the Company’s overall liquidity and capitalization.

The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect
BB&T.

Financial services institutions
are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. BB&T has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and BB&T and certain of its subsidiaries routinely execute transactions with
counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose the Company to credit risk in the event
of default of its counterparty or client. In addition, the Company’s credit risk may be exacerbated when collateral is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due BB&T. These types
of losses could materially and adversely affect BB&T’s results of operations or financial condition.

Changes in interest rates may have an adverse effect on BB&T’s profitability.

BB&T’s earnings and financial condition are dependent to a large degree upon net interest income, which is the difference between
interest earned from loans and investments and interest paid on deposits and borrowings. The narrowing of interest rate spreads, meaning the difference between interest rates earned on loans and investments and the interest rates paid on deposits
and borrowings, could adversely affect BB&T’s earnings and financial condition. The Company cannot control or predict with certainty changes in interest rates. Regional and local economic conditions, competitive pressures and the policies
of regulatory authorities, including monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board, affect interest income and interest expense. The Company has ongoing policies and procedures designed to manage the risks associated with changes in market interest
rates. However, changes in interest rates still may have an adverse effect on BB&T’s profitability. For example, high interest rates could adversely affect the Company’s mortgage banking business because higher interest rates could
cause customers to apply for fewer mortgage refinancings or purchase mortgages.

Changes in banking laws could have a material adverse effect on BB&T.

BB&T is extensively regulated under federal and state banking laws and regulations that are intended primarily for the protection of
depositors, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole. In addition, the Company is subject to changes in federal and state laws as well as changes in banking and credit regulations, and governmental economic and monetary
policies. BB&T cannot predict whether any of these changes may adversely and materially affect the Company. The current regulatory environment for financial institutions entails significant potential increases in compliance requirements and
associated costs, including those related to consumer credit, with a focus on mortgage lending. For example, President Obama’s administration recently announced a proposal that would impose a tax on the 50 largest banks in the nation (which
includes BB&T). The tax would be an annual fee based on the bank’s liabilities, excluding domestic deposits, and would be imposed over a 10 year period. If adopted, this tax and other future restrictions could have a material adverse effect
on BB&T.



Federal and state banking regulators also possess broad powers to take supervisory actions
as they deem appropriate. These supervisory actions may result in higher capital requirements, higher insurance premiums and limitations on BB&T’s activities that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and
profitability.

BB&T may experience significant competition
in its market area, which may reduce the Company’s customer base.

There is intense competition among commercial banks in BB&T’s market area. In addition, BB&T competes with other providers of financial services, such as savings and loan associations, credit
unions, consumer finance companies, securities firms, insurance companies, commercial finance and leasing companies, the mutual funds industry, full-service brokerage firms and discount brokerage firms, some of which are subject to less extensive
regulations than BB&T is with respect to the products and services they provide. Some of BB&T’s larger competitors, including certain national banks that have a significant presence in BB&T’s market area, may have greater
resources than BB&T, may have higher lending limits and may offer products and services not offered by BB&T.

BB&T also experiences competition from a variety of institutions outside of the Company’s market area. Some of these institutions
conduct business primarily over the Internet and may thus be able to realize certain cost savings and offer products and services at more favorable rates and with greater convenience to the customer who can pay bills and transfer funds directly
without going through a bank. This “disintermediation” could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and income generated from those deposits. In addition, changes in consumer spending and saving habits
could adversely affect BB&T’s operations, and the Company may be unable to timely develop competitive new products and services in response to these changes.

Maintaining or increasing BB&T’s market share may depend on lowering prices and market acceptance of new products
and services.

BB&T’s success
depends, in part, on its ability to adapt its products and services to evolving industry standards. There is increasing pressure to provide products and services at lower prices. Lower prices can reduce BB&T’s net interest margin and
revenues from its fee-based products and services. In addition, the widespread adoption of new technologies, including internet services, could require the Company to make substantial expenditures to modify or adapt its existing products and
services. Also, these and other capital investments in BB&T’s business may not produce expected growth in earnings anticipated at the time of the expenditure. The Company may not be successful in introducing new products and services,
achieving market acceptance of its products and services, or developing and maintaining loyal customers.

Acts or threats of terrorism and political or military actions taken by the United States or other governments could adversely affect general economic or industry conditions.

Geopolitical conditions may affect BB&T’s earnings.
Acts or threats of terrorism and political or military actions taken by the United States or other governments in response to terrorism, or similar activity, could adversely affect general economic or industry conditions.

Unpredictable catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on
BB&T.

The occurrence of catastrophic
events such as hurricanes, tropical storms, earthquakes, pandemic disease, windstorms, floods, severe winter weather (including snow, freezing water, ice storms and blizzards), fires and other catastrophes could adversely affect BB&T’s
consolidated financial condition or results of operations. Unpredictable natural and other disasters could have an adverse effect on the Company in that such events could materially disrupt its operations or the ability or willingness of its
customers to access the financial services offered by BB&T. The Company’s property and casualty insurance operations also expose it to claims arising out of catastrophes. The incidence and severity of catastrophes are inherently
unpredictable. Although the Company carries insurance to mitigate its exposure to certain catastrophic events, these events could nevertheless reduce



BB&T’s earnings and cause volatility in its financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and have a material adverse effect on BB&T’s financial condition and/or results of
operations.

BB&T faces significant operational risk.

BB&T is exposed to many types of operational
risks, including reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors, including clerical or record-keeping errors or those resulting from
faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems. Negative public opinion can result from BB&T’s actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance and acquisitions and from
actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can adversely affect BB&T’s ability to attract and keep customers and can expose it to litigation and regulatory
action.

Because the nature of the financial
services business involves a high volume of transactions, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and successfully rectified. BB&T’s necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process its
transaction volume may further increase the risk that technical flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. BB&T also may be subject to disruptions of its operating systems
arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond its control (for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages), which may give rise to disruption of service to customers and to financial loss or liability. BB&T
is further exposed to the risk that its external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as is BB&T) and to the risk that
BB&T’s (or its vendors’) business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate.

BB&T’s liquidity could be impaired by an inability to access the capital markets or an unforeseen outflow of cash.

Liquidity is essential to BB&T’s businesses. Due to circumstances that BB&T may be unable to
control, such as a general market disruption or an operational problem that affects third parties or BB&T, BB&T’s liquidity could be impaired by an inability to access the capital markets or an unforeseen outflow of cash.
BB&T’s credit ratings are important to its liquidity. A reduction in BB&T’s credit ratings could adversely affect its liquidity and competitive position, increase its borrowing costs, limit its access to the capital markets or
trigger unfavorable contractual obligations.

BB&T’s
reported financial results depend on management’s selection of accounting methods and certain assumptions and estimates.

BB&T’s accounting policies and methods are fundamental to the methods by which the Company records and reports its financial
condition and results of operations. The Company’s management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with generally accepted accounting principles and reflect
management’s judgment of the most appropriate manner to report BB&T’s financial condition and results. In some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which may be
reasonable under the circumstances, yet may result in the Company reporting materially different results than would have been reported under a different alternative.

Certain accounting policies are critical to presenting BB&T’s financial condition and results. They
require management to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments about matters that are uncertain. Materially different amounts could be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions or estimates. These critical accounting
policies include: the allowance for credit losses; the determination of fair value for financial instruments; the valuation of goodwill and other intangible assets; the accounting for pension and postretirement benefits and the accounting for income
taxes. Because of the uncertainty of estimates involved in these matters, the Company may be required to do one or more of the following: significantly increase the allowance for credit losses and/or sustain credit losses that are significantly
higher than the reserve provided; recognize significant impairment on its financial instruments, goodwill and other intangible asset balances; or significantly increase its liabilities for taxes or pension and post retirement benefits.



Prior to the acquisition, Colonial was the subject of several regulatory investigations and a criminal
investigation in connection with accounting irregularities and these investigations may require significant resources and management attention.

Prior to the acquisition, Colonial was the subject of a federal criminal investigation relating to the bank’s mortgage warehouse lending
division and related accounting irregularities. Colonial also received subpoenas from the Special Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program and the SEC. Although the assets and liabilities that the FDIC determines are related to
alleged fraudulent or criminal activities were excluded from the acquisition of Colonial, during the process of integrating Colonial with Branch Bank, BB&T may discover other inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that
adversely affect BB&T’s ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition of Colonial. Additionally, BB&T will need to ensure that the banking operations of Colonial that were acquired maintain effective disclosure controls
as well as internal controls and procedures for financial reporting, and such compliance efforts may be costly and may divert the attention of management.

BB&T’s business could suffer if it fails to attract and retain skilled people.

BB&T’s success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and retain key people. Competition
for the best people in most activities in which the Company engages can be intense. The federal government has proposed significant additional standards with respect to executive compensation and governance at United States financial institutions
that may impact certain of BB&T’s executive officers and employees. If adopted, such restrictions, in addition to other competitive pressures, may have an adverse effect on the ability of BB&T to attract and retain skilled personnel,
resulting in BB&T not being able to hire the best people or to retain them.

BB&T relies on other companies to provide key components of its business infrastructure.

Third party vendors provide key components of BB&T’s business infrastructure such as internet connections, network access and mutual
fund distribution. While BB&T has selected these third party vendors carefully, its does not control their actions. Any problems caused by these third parties, including those which result from their failure to provide services for any reason or
their poor performance of services, could adversely affect BB&T’s ability to deliver products and services to its customers and otherwise to conduct its business. Replacing these third party vendors could also entail significant delay and
expense.

Significant litigation could have a material adverse
effect on BB&T.

BB&T faces legal
risks in its business, and the volume of claims and amount of damages and penalties claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions remain high. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against
BB&T may have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to BB&T, which in turn could seriously harm BB&T’s business prospects.

BB&T faces systems failure risks as well as security risks, including “hacking” and “identity
theft.”

The computer systems and
network infrastructure BB&T and others use could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. These problems may arise in both the Company’s internally developed systems and the systems of its third-party service providers. The Company’s
operations are dependent upon its ability to protect computer equipment against damage from fire, power loss or telecommunication failure. Any damage or failure that causes an interruption in the Company’s operations could adversely affect
BB&T’s business and financial results. In addition, the Company’s computer systems and network infrastructure present security risks, and could be susceptible to hacking or identity theft.

Differences in interpretation of tax laws and regulations may adversely
impact BB&T’s financial statements.

Local, state or federal tax authorities may interpret tax laws and regulations differently than BB&T and challenge tax positions that BB&T has taken on its tax returns. This may result in the disallowance of deductions or credits,
and/or differences in the timing of deductions and result in the payment of additional taxes, interest or penalties that could have a material adverse effect on BB&T’s performance.



Changes in accounting standards could materially impact BB&T’s financial statements.

From time to time accounting standards
setters change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of BB&T’s financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how the Company records and reports its financial
condition and results of operations. In some cases, the Company could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in changes to previously reported financial results, or a cumulative charge to retained earnings.

BB&T may not be able to successfully integrate bank or
nonbank mergers and acquisitions.

Difficulties may arise in the integration of the business and operations of bank holding companies, banks and other nonbank entities BB&T acquires and, as a result, the Company may not be able to achieve the cost savings and synergies
that it expects will result from such transactions. Achieving cost savings is dependent on consolidating certain operational and functional areas, eliminating duplicative positions and terminating certain agreements for outside services. Additional
operational savings are dependent upon the integration of the acquired or merged entity’s businesses with BB&T or one of BB&T’s subsidiaries, the conversion of core operating systems, data systems and products and the
standardization of business practices. Complications or difficulties in the conversion of the core operating systems, data systems and products may result in the loss of customers, damage to BB&T’s reputation within the financial services
industry, operational problems, one-time costs currently not anticipated or reduced cost savings resulting from such mergers or acquisitions. Annual cost savings in each such transaction may be materially less than anticipated if the holding
company, bank merger or nonbank merger or acquisition is delayed unexpectedly, the integration of operations is delayed beyond what is anticipated or the conversion to a single data system is not accomplished on a timely basis.

Difficulty in integrating an acquired company may cause the
Company not to realize expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence and/or other projected benefits from the acquisition. The integration could result in higher than expected deposit attrition, loss of key
employees, disruption of BB&T’s businesses or the businesses of the acquired company, or otherwise adversely affect the Company’s ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or achieve the anticipated benefits of the
acquisition. Also, the negative effect of any divestitures required by regulatory authorities in acquisitions or business combinations may be greater than expected.

In August 2009, Branch Bank acquired from the FDIC certain assets of Colonial, including a substantial majority
of its loan portfolio, and assumed certain of its liabilities. The success of the Colonial acquisition will depend, in part, on BB&T’s ability to successfully combine the acquired business and assets with BB&T’s business and
BB&T’s ability to successfully manage the significant loan portfolio and FDIC loss share agreements. As with any acquisition involving a financial institution, particularly one like Colonial with a large number of bank branches, there may
be business and service changes and disruptions that result in the loss of customers or cause customers to close their accounts and move their business to competing financial institutions. It is possible that the integration process could result in
the loss of key employees, the disruption of ongoing business, or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect BB&T’s ability to maintain relationships with clients, customers, depositors and
employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Successful integration may also be hampered by differences between the two organizations. Although BB&T had significant operations in most of the regional markets in which
Colonial operated, other than Alabama and Texas, the loss of key employees of Colonial could adversely affect BB&T’s ability to successfully conduct business in certain local markets in which Colonial operated, which could have an adverse
effect on BB&T’s financial results. Integration efforts will also divert attention and resources from BB&T’s management. Additionally, general market and economic conditions or governmental actions affecting the financial industry
generally may inhibit the ability to successfully integrate Colonial. If BB&T experiences difficulties with the integration process, the anticipated benefits of the acquisition may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize
than expected. Finally, any cost savings that are realized may be offset by losses in revenues or other charges to earnings.

BB&T may not receive the regulatory approvals required to complete a bank merger.

BB&T must generally receive federal and/or state regulatory approvals before it can acquire a bank or bank
holding company. In determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition, bank regulators will consider, among other factors, the effect of the acquisition on competition, financial condition and future prospects,



including current and projected capital ratios and levels, the competence, experience and integrity of management and record of compliance with laws and regulations, the convenience and needs of
the communities to be served, including the acquiring institution’s record of compliance under the Community Reinvestment Act, and the effectiveness of the acquiring institution in combating money laundering activities. In addition, BB&T
cannot be certain when or if, or on what terms and conditions, any required regulatory approvals will be granted. In specific cases the Company may be required to sell banks or branches, or take other actions as a condition to receiving regulatory
approval.

BB&T’s stock price can be volatile.

BB&T’s stock price can fluctuate widely
in response to a variety of factors including:

·

actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results;

·

recommendations by securities analysts;

·

new technology used, or services offered, by competitors;

·

significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving the Company or the
Company’s competitors;

·

failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits from acquisitions;

·

operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to BB&T;

·

news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry;

·

changes in government regulations; and

·

geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts.

General market fluctuations, industry factors and general
economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes, credit loss trends, or currency fluctuations could also cause BB&T’s stock price to decrease regardless of the Company’s
operating results.

Operating Subsidiaries

At December 31, 2009, the principal operating subsidiaries
of BB&T included the following:

·

Branch Banking and Trust Company, Winston-Salem, North Carolina

·

BB&T Financial, FSB, Columbus, Georgia

·

Scott & Stringfellow, LLC, Richmond, Virginia

·

Regional Acceptance Corporation, Greenville, North Carolina

·

BB&T Asset Management, Inc., Raleigh, North Carolina

Branch Bank, BB&T’s largest subsidiary, was chartered in 1872 and is the oldest bank headquartered in
North Carolina. Branch Bank provides a wide range of banking and trust services for retail and commercial clients in its geographic markets, including small and mid-size businesses, public agencies, local governments and individuals, through 1,857
offices (as of December 31, 2009) located in North Carolina, Virginia, Florida, Georgia, Maryland, South Carolina, Alabama, Kentucky, West Virginia, Tennessee, Nevada, Texas, Washington D.C and Indiana. Branch Bank exited its 22 Nevada branches
in January 2010. Branch Bank’s principal operating subsidiaries include:

·

BB&T Equipment Finance Corporation, based in Charlotte, North Carolina, which provides loan and lease financing to commercial and small businesses;

·

BB&T Investment Services, Inc., a registered broker-dealer located in Charlotte, North Carolina, which offers clients non-deposit investment
alternatives, including discount brokerage services, equities, fixed-rate and variable-rate annuities, mutual funds and government and municipal bonds;



·

BB&T Insurance Services, Inc., headquartered in Raleigh, North Carolina, which offers property and casualty, life, health, employee benefits,
commercial general liability, surety, title and other insurance products through its agency network;

·

Stanley, Hunt, DuPree & Rhine, Inc., with dual headquarters in Greensboro, North Carolina, and Greenville, South Carolina, which offers
flexible benefit plans, and investment advisory, actuarial and benefit consulting services (merged into Branch Bank on January 1, 2010);

·

Prime Rate Premium Finance Corporation, Inc., located in Florence, South Carolina, and its subsidiary AFCO Credit Corporation, headquartered in
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, which provide insurance premium financing to clients in the United States and Canada;

·

Grandbridge Real Estate Capital, LLC, based in Charlotte, North Carolina, which specializes in arranging and servicing commercial mortgage loans;

·

Lendmark Financial Services, Inc., located in Covington, Georgia, which offers alternative consumer loans to clients unable to meet Branch Bank’s
normal credit and mortgage loan underwriting guidelines;

·

CRC Insurance Services, Inc., based in Birmingham, Alabama, which is a wholesale insurance broker authorized to do business nationwide; and

·

McGriff, Seibels & Williams, Inc., based in Birmingham, Alabama, which is authorized to do business nationwide and specializes in providing
insurance products on an agency basis to large commercial and energy clients, including many Fortune 500 companies.

BB&T FSB is a federal savings bank. BB&T FSB provides services to clients throughout the United States and was formed to help improve
the operating efficiency of certain business activities for subsidiaries which are national in scope. In addition to credit card lending, the following businesses operate as either subsidiaries or divisions of BB&T FSB:

·

Sheffield Financial (a division of BB&T FSB), based in Clemmons, North Carolina, which specializes in loans to small commercial lawn care
businesses across the country for the purchase of outdoor power equipment and loans to individuals for power sport and leisure equipment;

·

Liberty Mortgage Corporation, based in Norcross, Georgia, which originates mortgage loans through a network of mortgage originators (including mortgage
brokers, community banks and mortgage banks) in a multi-state area; and

·

MidAmerica Gift Certificate Company, which specializes in the issuance and sale of retail gift certificates and giftcards through a nationwide network
of authorized agents.

Major
Nonbank Subsidiaries

BB&T also has a
number of nonbank subsidiaries, including:

·

Scott & Stringfellow, LLC, which is a registered investment banking and full-service brokerage firm that provides services in retail
brokerage, equity and debt underwriting, investment advice, corporate finance and equity research; and facilitates the origination, trading and distribution of fixed-income securities and equity products in both the public and private capital
markets. It also has a public finance department that provides investment banking, financial advisory services and debt underwriting services to a variety of regional taxable and tax-exempt issuers. Scott & Stringfellow’s investment
banking and corporate and public finance areas do business as BB&T Capital Markets;

·

Regional Acceptance Corporation, which specializes in indirect financing for consumer purchases of primarily mid-model and late-model used automobiles;
and

·

BB&T Asset Management, Inc., a registered investment advisor and the advisor to the BB&T Funds, provides tailored investment management
solutions to meet the specific needs and objectives of individual and institutional clients through a full range of investment strategies, including domestic and international equity, alternative investment products and strategies, and fixed income
investing.



Services

BB&T’s subsidiaries offer a variety of services targeted to retail and commercial clients.
BB&T’s objective is to offer clients a full array of products to meet all their financial needs.

The following table reflects BB&T’s deposit market share and branch locations by state.

Table 1

BB&T Deposit Market Share and Branch Locations by State

(1)

Excludes home office deposits.

(2)

Source: FDIC.gov—data as of June 30, 2009, includes the effect of the FDIC-assisted acquisition of Colonial Bank.

(3)

As of December 31, 2009. Excludes 22 branches in Nevada, which were exited on January 15, 2010, and 2 branches in Indiana.

Executive Overview

Significant accomplishments in 2009

In the opinion of BB&T’s management, the
Corporation’s most significant accomplishments during 2009 were as follows (amounts include the impact of acquisitions where applicable):

·

Achieved outstanding client service and client loyalty scores based on independent survey

·

Exited Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP)



·

Exceeded capital requirements as measured in the Supervisory Capital Assessment Process (SCAP)

·

Successfully executed the FDIC-assisted acquisition of certain assets and liabilities of Colonial—largest acquisition in BB&T’s history

·

Maintained safety, soundness and profitability through the recession

·

Successfully executed Executive Management leadership succession plan

·

Enhanced risk management structure

·

Achieved strong revenue growth—record performance in retail mortgage and insurance

·

Enhanced quality of capital with two common stock offerings for a total of $2.6 billion

Challenges

BB&T’s business has become more dynamic and complex in
recent years. Consequently, management has annually evaluated and, as necessary, adjusted the Corporation’s business strategy in the context of the current operating environment. During this process, management considers the current financial
condition and performance of the Company and its expectations for future economic activity, both on a national and local market scale. The achievement of BB&T’s key strategic objectives and established long-term financial goals is subject
to many uncertainties and challenges. In the opinion of management, the challenges that are most relevant and likely to have a near term impact on performance are presented below:

·

Economic impact from deepest recession in decades

·

Unprecedented disruption and significantly increased risk in financial markets

·

Effectively managing through the credit cycle

·

Residential real estate risk / risk of downturn spreading to other asset classes

·

Intense competition for best credits within the financial services industry

·

Cost and risk associated with the current heightened regulatory environment

·

Over-capacity in financial services industry

Overview of Significant Events and Financial Results

The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Federal Reserve Banks, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation,
and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency commenced a review of the capital needs of the largest U.S. banking institutions. This review was called the Supervisory Capital Assessment Program (the “SCAP”). The SCAP review process
involved a forward-looking capital assessment, or “stress test”, of all domestic bank holding companies with assets of more than $100 billion at December 31, 2008, which included BB&T. The stress test was intended to estimate
credit losses, revenues and reserve needs for each of these bank holding companies in 2009 and 2010 under a macroeconomic scenario that reflected a consensus expectation for the depth and duration of the recession and a more adverse scenario that
was designed to reflect a recession that was longer and more severe than consensus expectations.

On May 7, 2009, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System announced the results of the final SCAP assessments for the 19
largest U.S. bank holding companies, including BB&T. The SCAP assessment for BB&T indicated that BB&T did not need to raise additional capital.

Following the successful results from the stress test, BB&T raised $1.7 billion of common stock, as part of its plans to repay the
preferred stock invested by the U. S. Treasury. In addition, as part of this plan, BB&T’s Board of Directors reduced the quarterly dividends on common stock from $.47 to $.15 beginning with the payout for the third quarter of 2009. The
reduction in the dividend will preserve approximately $725 million annually based on the shares outstanding at the time of the decision.

On June 17, 2009, BB&T repurchased all 3,133.64 shares of its Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series C, $1,000,000
liquidation preference per share (the “Series C Preferred Stock”) issued to the U.S. Treasury on November 14, 2008, as part of the Troubled Asset Relief Program: Capital Purchase Program (the “Capital Purchase Program”). The
aggregate purchase price paid to the U.S. Treasury for the Series C Preferred



Stock was approximately $3.1 billion, including approximately $14 million of accrued and unpaid dividends. On July 22, 2009, BB&T repurchased the warrant to purchase up to 13,902,573
shares of its common stock for $67 million, which also was issued to the U.S. Treasury on November 14, 2008, as part of the Capital Purchase Program.

On August 14, 2009, BB&T acquired certain assets and assumed substantially all of the deposits and certain other liabilities of
Colonial Bank (“Colonial”), headquartered in Montgomery, Alabama, from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”), as receiver for Colonial. Colonial operated 357 banking offices in Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Texas and
Nevada. The acquisition significantly strengthened BB&T’s banking franchise, moving BB&T to fifth in deposit market share in Florida and fourth in Alabama. BB&T issued 38.5 million shares of common stock to the investing public
at $26 per share in connection with the Colonial acquisition to further strengthen BB&T’s capital levels. Early in 2010, BB&T exited the Nevada branches and divested approximately $850 million in deposits acquired in the Colonial
acquisition. Please refer to Note 2 “Business Combinations” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for additional disclosures about the Colonial acquisition.

In addition to the Colonial acquisition, BB&T continued to
expand its noninterest revenue producing business through the acquisitions of Dallas, Texas-based Quantum First Capital, LTD and Louisville, Kentucky-based BFG Realty Advisors, LLC. Both firms were acquired by BB&T’s wholly-owned subsidiary
Grandbridge Real Estate Capital LLC. BB&T also acquired Florida-based insurance agency Oswald Trippe and Company Inc.

Consolidated net income for 2009 totaled $877 million, a decrease of $652 million, or 42.6%, compared to $1.5 billion earned during 2008.
Consolidated net income available to common shareholders for 2009 totaled $729 million, a decrease of $769 million, or 51.3%, compared to $1.5 billion earned during 2008. On a diluted per common share basis, earnings for 2009 were $1.15, compared to
$2.71 for 2008, a decrease of 57.6%. BB&T’s results of operations for 2009 produced a return on average assets of .56% and a return on average common shareholders’ equity of 4.93% compared to prior year ratios of 1.12% and 11.44%,
respectively.

BB&T generated strong revenue
growth during 2009, which was up 18.3% compared to 2008. This included growth of 14.9% in fully taxable equivalent net interest income and 23.1% growth from noninterest income sources. The growth in net interest income was the result of growth in
earning assets, as well as expansion in the net interest margin from 3.58% in 2008 to 3.66% in 2009. Noninterest income benefitted from record performance from BB&T’s residential mortgage banking and insurance operations. BB&T generated
$658 million in revenues from mortgage banking operations, which was up 139.3% from the 2008 results. Insurance income increased 12.8% in 2009 and exceeded $1 billion annually.

Nonperforming assets and credit costs continued to increase during 2009. BB&T recorded a $2.8 billion
provision for credit losses in 2009, which exceeded net charge-offs by $1.0 billion. This compared to a $1.4 billion provision for credit losses recorded during 2008. Net charge-offs for 2009 totaled $1.8 billion compared to $851 million for 2008.
The increases in nonperforming assets and the provision for credit losses were primarily driven by continued deterioration in housing-related credits. The largest concentration of housing-related credit issues continues to be in Georgia, Florida and
metropolitan Washington, D.C., including the surrounding suburbs. In addition, there has been deterioration in the coastal areas of the Carolinas.

BB&T’s total assets at December 31, 2009 were $165.8 billion, an increase of $13.7 billion, or 9.0%, compared to
December 31, 2008. Total loans and leases at December 31, 2009 were $106.2 billion, an increase of $7.5 billion, or 7.6%, compared to the balance at year-end 2008. The increase in total loans and leases included increases of $1.1 billion
in loans held for sale and $8.0 billion in covered loans acquired in the Colonial transaction. Securities available for sale increased $1.1 billion compared to the balances at December 31, 2008. In addition, BB&T recorded a $3.1 billion
receivable from the FDIC in connection with the Colonial acquisition. The FDIC receivable represents the fair value of amounts expected to be received under the agreement with the FDIC, whereby the FDIC will reimburse BB&T for the significant
majority of losses on the assets acquired.

Total
client deposits at December 31, 2009 were $106.8 billion, an increase of $23.2 billion, or 27.7%, from December 31, 2008. Total deposits, which include wholesale deposits sources, totaled $115.0 billion at December 31, 2009, an
increase of $16.4 billion, or 16.6%, compared to December 31, 2008. The increase in client deposits was a result of the Colonial acquisition, which added approximately $16 billion in client deposits, as well



as BB&T’s success in attracting new accounts. BB&T also has seen an improvement in the deposit mix with noninterest-bearing accounts representing 16.5% of total deposits at
December 31, 2009, compared with 13.8% at December 31, 2008.

Total shareholders’ equity increased slightly compared to December 31, 2008. BB&T’s common equity increased as a result of the issuance of $2.6 billion in common stock during the second
and third quarters of 2009, retained earnings and an increase in accumulated other comprehensive income, which were partially offset by the repayment of the $3.1 billion of preferred stock issued to the U.S. Treasury. The Tier 1 common ratio was
8.5% at December 31, 2009. In addition, the Tier 1 risk-based capital and total risk-based capital ratios were 11.5% and 15.8% at December 31, 2009, respectively. BB&T’s risk-based and tangible capital ratios remain well above
regulatory standards for well-capitalized banks. As of December 31, 2009, measures of tangible capital were not required by the regulators and, therefore, were considered non-GAAP measures. Please refer to the section titled “Capital”
herein for a discussion of how BB&T calculates and uses these measures in the evaluation of the Company.

Competition

The financial services industry is highly competitive and dramatic change continues to occur in all aspects of the Company’s business. The ability of nonbank financial entities to provide services
previously reserved for commercial banks has intensified competition. BB&T’s subsidiaries compete actively with national, regional and local financial services providers, including banks, thrifts, securities dealers, mortgage bankers,
finance companies and insurance companies. Competition among providers of financial products and services continues to increase, with consumers having the opportunity to select from a growing variety of traditional and nontraditional alternatives.
The industry continues to consolidate, which affects competition by eliminating some regional and local institutions, while strengthening the franchises of acquirers. In addition, many financial services entities are experiencing significant
challenges as a result of the economic crisis, resulting in bank and thrift failures and significant intervention from the U.S. Government. For additional information concerning markets, BB&T’s competitive position and business strategies,
and recent government interventions see “Market Area”, “General Business Development” and “Regulatory Considerations” below.

Market Area

BB&T’s primary market area for its banking operations consists of North and South Carolina, Virginia, Maryland, Georgia, eastern
Tennessee, West Virginia, Kentucky, Florida, Alabama and Washington, D.C. In addition, BB&T has a smaller banking presence in Texas and Indiana. The Texas market represents a new market for BB&T to expand its banking operations and was
entered in connection with the Colonial acquisition. The markets that BB&T operates have a diverse employment base and primarily consists of manufacturing, general services, agricultural, wholesale/retail trade, technology, government and
financial services. BB&T believes its current market area will support growth in assets and deposits in the future. Management strongly believes that BB&T’s community bank approach to providing client service is a competitive advantage
that strengthens the Corporation’s ability to effectively provide financial products and services to businesses and individuals in its markets.

General Business Development

BB&T is a regional financial holding company. BB&T has maintained a long-term focus on a strategy that includes expanding and
diversifying the BB&T franchise in terms of revenues, profitability and asset size. This strategy has encompassed both organic growth and acquisitions of complementary banks and financial businesses. During the 1990’s and through 2003,
BB&T’s growth resulted largely from mergers and acquisitions as the economics of business combinations were compelling. Since that time, BB&T has focused more on organic growth and strategic acquisitions, including the FDIC-assisted
acquisition of Colonial.

Merger Strategy

BB&T’s growth in business,
profitability and market share has historically been enhanced by strategic mergers and acquisitions. Management intends to remain disciplined and focused with regard to future merger and acquisition opportunities. BB&T will continue to assess
bank and thrift acquisitions subject to market



conditions and suitable candidates, primarily within BB&T’s existing footprint, and will pursue economically advantageous acquisitions of insurance agencies, specialized lending
businesses, and fee income generating financial services businesses. BB&T’s acquisition strategy is focused on three primary objectives:

·

to pursue assisted and unassisted acquisitions of banks and thrifts with compatible cultures that will enhance BB&T’s banking network and
customer delivery system;

·

to acquire companies in niche markets that provide products or services that can be offered through the existing distribution system to BB&T’s
current customer base; and

·

to consider strategic nonbank acquisitions in markets that are economically feasible and provide positive long-term benefits.

BB&T completed acquisitions
of 35 community banks and thrifts, 85 insurance agencies and 30 nonbank financial services providers over the last fifteen years. In the long-term, BB&T expects to continue to take advantage of the consolidation in the financial services
industry and expand and enhance its franchise through mergers and acquisitions. The consideration paid for these acquisitions may be in the form of cash, debt or BB&T common stock. The amount of consideration paid to complete these transactions
may be in excess of the book value of the underlying net assets acquired, which could have a dilutive effect on BB&T’s earnings. In addition, acquisitions often result in significant front-end charges against earnings; however, cost savings
and revenue enhancements, especially incident to in-market bank and thrift acquisitions, are typically anticipated.

Lending Activities

The primary goal of the BB&T lending function is to help clients achieve their financial goals by providing quality loan products that
are fair to the client and profitable to the Corporation. Management believes that this purpose can best be accomplished by building strong, profitable client relationships over time, with BB&T becoming an important contributor to the prosperity
and well-being of its clients. In addition to the importance placed on client knowledge and continuous involvement with clients, BB&T’s lending process incorporates the standards of a consistent company-wide credit culture and an in-depth
local market knowledge. Furthermore, the Corporation employs strict underwriting criteria governing the degree of assumed risk and the diversity of the loan portfolio in terms of type, industry and geographical concentration. In this context,
BB&T strives to meet the credit needs of businesses and consumers in its markets while pursuing a balanced strategy of loan profitability, loan growth and loan quality.

BB&T conducts the majority of its lending activities within the framework of the Corporation’s
community bank operating model, with lending decisions made as close to the client as practicable.

The following table summarizes BB&T’s loan portfolio based on the regulatory classification of the portfolio, which focuses on the
underlying loan collateral, and differs from internal classifications presented herein that focus on the primary purpose of the loan.

Table 2

Composition of Loan and Lease Portfolio



BB&T’s loan portfolio is approximately 50% commercial and 50% retail by design, and
is divided into six major categories—commercial, sales finance, revolving credit, direct retail, mortgage and specialized lending. In addition, BB&T has a portfolio of loans that were acquired in the Colonial acquisition that are covered by
FDIC loss sharing agreements. BB&T lends to a diverse customer base that is substantially located within the Corporation’s primary market area. At the same time, the loan portfolio is geographically dispersed throughout BB&T’s
branch network to mitigate concentration risk arising from local and regional economic downturns.

The following discussion presents the principal types of lending conducted by BB&T and describes the underwriting procedures and overall
risk management of BB&T’s lending function. The relative risk of each loan portfolio is presented in the “Asset Quality” section of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations” herein.

Underwriting Approach

Recognizing that the loan portfolio is a
primary source of profitability, proper loan underwriting is critical to BB&T’s long-term financial success. BB&T’s underwriting approach is designed to define acceptable combinations of specific risk-mitigating features that
ensure credit relationships conform to BB&T’s risk philosophy. Provided below is a summary of the most significant underwriting criteria used to evaluate new loans and loan renewals:

·

Cash flow and debt service coverage

—cash flow adequacy is a necessary condition of creditworthiness, meaning that loans not clearly
supported by a borrower’s cash flow must be justified by secondary repayment sources.

·

Secondary sources of repayment

—alternative repayment funds are a significant risk-mitigating factor as long as they are liquid, can be
easily accessed and provide adequate resources to supplement the primary cash flow source.

·

Value of any underlying collateral

—loans are generally secured by the asset being financed. Because an analysis of the primary and
secondary sources of repayment is the most important factor, collateral, unless it is liquid, does not justify loans that cannot be serviced by the borrower’s normal cash flows.

·

Overall creditworthiness of the customer, taking into account the customer’s relationships, both past and current, with other
lenders

—our success depends on building lasting and mutually beneficial relationships with clients, which involves assessing their financial position and background.

·

Level of equity invested in the transaction

—in general, borrowers are required to contribute or invest a portion of their own funds prior
to any loan advances.

Commercial Loan and Lease Portfolio

The commercial loan and lease portfolio represents the largest category of the Corporation’s total loan portfolio. BB&T’s commercial lending program is generally targeted to serve small-to-middle market businesses with sales
of $200 million or less. In addition, BB&T’s Corporate Banking Group provides lending solutions to large corporate clients. Traditionally, lending to small and mid-sized businesses has been among BB&T’s strongest market segments.

Commercial and small business loans are primarily
originated through BB&T’s banking network. In accordance with the Corporation’s lending policy, each loan undergoes a detailed underwriting process, which incorporates BB&T’s underwriting approach, procedures and evaluations
described above. In addition, Branch Bank has adopted an internal maximum credit exposure lending limit of $245 million for a “best grade” credit, which is considerably below Branch Bank’s maximum legal lending limit. Commercial loans
are typically priced with an interest rate tied to market indices, such as the prime rate and the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”), or a fixed-rate. Commercial loans are individually monitored and reviewed for any possible
deterioration in the ability of the client to repay the loan. Approximately 92% of BB&T’s commercial loans are secured by real estate, business equipment, inventories and other types of collateral. BB&T’s commercial leases consist
of investments in various types of leveraged lease transactions.



Sales Finance Loan Portfolio

The sales finance category primarily includes secured indirect
installment loans to consumers for the purchase of new and used automobiles, boats and recreational vehicles. Such loans are originated through approved franchised and independent dealers throughout the BB&T market area. These loans are
relatively homogenous and no single loan is individually significant in terms of its size and potential risk of loss. Sales finance loans are subject to the same rigorous lending policies and procedures as described above for commercial loans and
are underwritten with note amounts and credit limits that ensure consistency with the Corporation’s risk philosophy. In addition to its normal underwriting due diligence, BB&T uses application systems and “scoring systems” to help
underwrite and manage the credit risk in its sales finance portfolio. Also included in the sales finance category are commercial lines, serviced by the Sales Finance Department, to finance dealer wholesale inventory (“Floor Plan Lines”)
for resale to consumers. Floor Plan Lines are underwritten by commercial loan officers in compliance with the same rigorous lending policies described above for commercial loans. In addition, Floor Plan Lines are subject to intensive monitoring and
oversight to ensure quality and to mitigate risk from fraud.

Revolving Credit Loan Portfolio

The revolving credit portfolio comprises the outstanding balances on credit cards and BB&T’s checking account overdraft protection product, Constant Credit. BB&T markets credit cards to its
existing banking client base and does not solicit cardholders through nationwide programs or other forms of mass marketing. Such balances are generally unsecured and actively managed by BB&T FSB.

Direct Retail Loan Portfolio

The direct retail loan portfolio primarily consists of a wide
variety of loan products offered through BB&T’s banking network. Various types of secured and unsecured loans are marketed to qualifying existing clients and to other creditworthy candidates in BB&T’s market area. The vast majority
of direct retail loans are secured by first or second liens on residential real estate, and include both closed-end home equity loans and revolving home equity lines of credit. Direct retail loans are subject to the same rigorous lending policies
and procedures as described above for commercial loans and are underwritten with note amounts and credit limits that ensure consistency with the Corporation’s risk philosophy.

Mortgage Loan Portfolio

BB&T is a large originator of residential mortgage loans, with originations in 2009 totaling $28.2 billion. Branch Bank
offers various types of fixed- and adjustable-rate loans for the purpose of constructing, purchasing or refinancing residential properties. BB&T primarily originates conforming mortgage loans and higher quality jumbo and
construction-to-permanent loans for owner-occupied properties. Conforming loans are loans that are underwritten in accordance with the underwriting standards set forth by the Federal National Mortgage Association (“Fannie Mae”) and the
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (“Freddie Mac”). They are generally collateralized by one-to-four-family residential real estate, have loan-to-collateral value ratios of 80% or less, and are made to borrowers in good credit
standing.

Risks associated with the mortgage
lending function include interest rate risk, which is mitigated through the sale of substantially all conforming fixed-rate loans in the secondary mortgage market and an effective mortgage servicing rights hedge process. Borrower risk is lessened
through rigorous underwriting procedures and mortgage insurance. The right to service the loans and receive servicing income is generally retained when conforming loans are sold. Management believes that the retention of mortgage servicing is a
primary relationship driver in retail banking and a vital part of management’s strategy to establish profitable long-term customer relationships and offer high quality client service. BB&T also purchases residential mortgage loans from
correspondent originators. The loans purchased from third-party originators are subject to the same underwriting and risk-management criteria as loans originated internally.



Specialized Lending Portfolio

BB&T’s specialized lending portfolio consists of loans
originated through six business units that provide specialty finance alternatives to consumers and businesses including: dealer-based financing of equipment for small businesses and consumers, commercial equipment leasing and finance, direct and
indirect consumer finance, insurance premium finance, indirect subprime automobile finance, and full-service commercial mortgage banking. BB&T offers these services to bank clients as well as nonbank clients within and outside BB&T’s
primary geographic market area.

BB&T’s
specialized lending subsidiaries adhere to the same overall underwriting approach as the commercial and consumer lending portfolio and also utilize automated credit scoring to assist with underwriting the credit risk. The majority of these loans are
relatively homogenous and no single loan is individually significant in terms of its size and potential risk of loss. The majority of the loans are secured by real estate, automobiles, equipment or unearned insurance premiums. As of
December 31, 2009, included in the specialized lending portfolio are loans to subprime borrowers of approximately $2.9 billion, or 2.7% of the total BB&T loan and lease portfolio. Of these, approximately $365 million are residential real
estate loans and included in the disclosures in Table 14-2 herein.

Covered Loan Portfolio

In connection with the FDIC-assisted acquisition of Colonial, BB&T acquired approximately $14.1 billion of loans that are covered by loss sharing agreements. BB&T recorded these loans at $9.6
billion, which represented their fair value on the acquisition date. The loans covered by loss sharing agreements are primarily commercial real estate loans and residential mortgage loans. See Note 2 “Business Combinations” and Note 4
“Loans and Leases” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” in this report for additional disclosures related to BB&T’s covered loans.

The following table presents BB&T’s total loan portfolio based upon BB&T’s lines of business,
as discussed herein, rather than upon regulatory reporting classifications:

Table 3

Composition of Loan and Lease Portfolio Based on Lines of
Business



The following table reflects the scheduled maturities of commercial, financial and
agricultural loans, as well as real estate construction loans:

Table 4

Selected Loan Maturities and Interest Sensitivity (1)

(1)

Balances include unearned income.

(2)

Includes loans due on demand.

Scheduled repayments are reported in the maturity category in which the payment is due. Determinations of maturities are based upon contract terms. In accordance with regulatory reporting standards,
variable rate loans that have reached a floor are reported as fixed-rate loans. BB&T’s credit policy typically does not permit automatic renewal of loans. At the scheduled maturity date (including balloon payment date), the customer
generally must request a new loan to replace the matured loan and execute either a new note or note modification with rate, terms and conditions negotiated at that time.

Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses and Reserve for Unfunded Lending Commitments

The allowance for loan and lease losses is determined based on
management’s best estimate of probable losses that are inherent in the portfolio at the balance sheet date. BB&T’s allowance is driven by existing conditions and observations, and reflects losses already incurred, even if not yet
identifiable.

The Corporation determines the
allowance based on an ongoing evaluation of the loan and lease portfolios. This evaluation is inherently subjective because it requires material estimates, including the amounts and timing of cash flows expected to be received on impaired loans.
Those estimates may be susceptible to significant change. Increases to the allowance are made by charges to the provision for credit losses, which is reflected in the Consolidated Statements of Income. Loans or leases deemed to be uncollectible are
charged against the allowance. Recoveries of previously charged-off amounts are credited to the allowance.



In addition to the allowance for loan and lease losses, BB&T also estimates probable
losses related to binding unfunded lending commitments. The methodology to determine such losses is inherently similar to the methodology used in calculating the allowance for commercial loans, adjusted for factors specific to binding commitments,
including the probability of funding and exposure at funding. The reserve for unfunded lending commitments is included in accounts payable and other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Changes to the reserve for unfunded lending
commitments are made by charges or credits to the provision for credit losses.

Reserve Policy and Methodology

The allowance for loan and lease losses consists of (1) a component for individual loan impairment and (2) components of collective loan impairment, including a component that is unallocated.
BB&T maintains specific reserves for individually impaired loans. A loan is impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that BB&T will be unable to collect all amounts due (interest as well as principal) according
to the contractual terms of the loan agreement. On a quarterly basis, BB&T reviews all commercial lending relationships with outstanding debt of $2 million or more that have been classified as substandard or doubtful. Loans are considered
impaired when the borrower does not have the cash flow capacity or willingness to service the debt according to contractual terms, or it does not appear reasonable to assume that the borrower will continue to pay according to the contractual
agreement. The amount of impairment is based on the present value of expected cash flows discounted at the loan’s effective interest rate, and/or the value of collateral adjusted for any origination costs and nonrefundable fees that existed at
the time of origination.

Reserves established for
collective impairment reflect an estimate of losses inherent in the loan and lease portfolios as of the balance sheet reporting date. Embedded loss estimates are based on current migration rates and current risk mix. Embedded loss estimates may be
adjusted to reflect current economic conditions and current portfolio trends including credit quality, concentrations, aging of the portfolio, and significant policy and underwriting changes. In the commercial lending portfolio, each loan is
assigned a “risk grade” at origination by the account officer and the assigned risk grade is subsequently reviewed and finalized by a credit officer. Further, Credit Risk Review, a department that is independent of the loan administration
functions, validates the risk grades of selected relationships through their loan review system. Loans are assigned risk grades based on an assessment of conditions that affect the borrower’s ability to meet contractual obligations under the
loan agreement. This process includes reviewing borrowers’ financial information, historical payment experience, credit documentation, public information, and other information specific to each borrower. The established risk management regimen
includes a review of all credit relationships with total credit exposure of $1 million or more on an annual basis or at any point management becomes aware of information affecting the borrower’s ability to fulfill their obligations. For small
business and commercial clients where total credit exposure is less than $1 million, BB&T has developed an automated loan review system to identify and proactively manage accounts with a higher risk of loss. The “score” produced by
this automated system is updated monthly. All of the loan portfolios grouped in the retail lending and specialized lending categories typically employ scoring models to segment credits into groups with homogenous risk characteristics. Scoring models
are validated on a periodic basis in order to ensure reliable default rate information. This information is employed to evaluate the levels of risk associated with new production as well as to assess any risk migration in the existing portfolio. For
loans acquired in a business combination after December 31, 2008, BB&T has generally aggregated the purchased loans into pools of loans with common risk characteristics. In determining the allowance for loan and lease losses, BB&T performs
analysis each period to estimate the expected cash flows for each of the loan pools. To the extent that the expected cash flows of a loan pool have decreased since the acquisition date, BB&T establishes an allowance for loan loss.

A small portion of the Corporation’s allowance for loan and
lease losses is not allocated to any specific category of loans. This unallocated portion of the allowance reflects management’s best estimate of the elements of imprecision and estimation risk inherent in the calculation of the overall
allowance. Due to the subjectivity involved in determining the overall allowance, including the unallocated portion, the portion considered unallocated may fluctuate from period to period based on management’s evaluation of the factors
affecting the assumptions used in calculating the allowance, including historical loss experience, current economic conditions, industry or borrower concentrations and the status of merged institutions. The allocated and unallocated portions of the
allowance are available to absorb losses in any loan or lease category. Management evaluates the adequacy of the allowance for loan and lease losses based on the combined total of the allocated and unallocated components.



While management uses the best information available to establish the allowance for loan and
lease losses, future adjustments to the allowance or to the reserving methodology may be necessary if economic conditions differ substantially from the assumptions used in making the valuations.

The following table presents an estimated allocation of the
allowance for loan and lease losses at the end of each of the past five years. This allocation of the allowance for loan and lease losses is calculated on an approximate basis and is not necessarily indicative of future losses or allocations. The
entire amount of the allowance is available to absorb losses occurring in any category of loans and leases.

Table 5

Allocation of Allowance for Loan and Lease
Losses by Lines of Business

(1)

Excludes loans covered by FDIC loss sharing agreements.

Investment Activities

Investment securities represent a significant portion of BB&T’s assets. Branch Bank invests in securities as allowable under bank
regulations. These securities include obligations of the U.S. Treasury, U.S. government agencies, U.S. government-sponsored entities, including mortgage-backed securities, bank eligible obligations of any state or political subdivision,
privately-issued mortgage-backed securities, structured notes, bank eligible corporate obligations, including corporate debentures, commercial paper, negotiable certificates of deposit, bankers acceptances, mutual funds and limited types of equity
securities. Branch Bank also may deal in securities subject to the provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. Scott & Stringfellow, LLC, BB&T’s full-service brokerage and investment banking subsidiary, engages in the underwriting,
trading and sales of equity and debt securities subject to the risk management policies of the Corporation.

BB&T’s investment activities are governed internally by a written, board-approved policy. The investment policy is carried out by
the Corporation’s Market Risk and Liquidity Committee (“MRLC”), which meets regularly to review the economic environment and establish investment strategies. The MRLC also has much broader responsibilities, which are discussed in the
“Market Risk Management” section in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” herein.

Investment strategies are reviewed by the MRLC based on the interest rate environment, balance sheet mix, actual and anticipated loan demand,
funding opportunities and the overall interest rate sensitivity of the Corporation. In general, the investment portfolio is managed in a manner appropriate to the attainment of the following goals: (i) to provide a sufficient margin of liquid
assets to meet unanticipated deposit and loan fluctuations and overall funds management objectives; (ii) to provide eligible securities to secure public funds, trust deposits as prescribed by law and other borrowings; and (iii) to earn the
maximum return on funds invested that is commensurate with meeting the requirements of (i) and (ii).



Funding Activities

Deposits are the primary source of funds for lending and investing activities, and their cost is the largest category of
interest expense. Scheduled payments, as well as prepayments, and maturities from portfolios of loans and investment securities also provide a stable source of funds. Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) advances, other secured borrowings,
Federal funds purchased and other short-term borrowed funds, as well as longer-term debt issued through the capital markets, all provide supplemental liquidity sources. BB&T’s funding activities are monitored and governed through
BB&T’s overall asset/liability management process, which is further discussed in the “Market Risk Management” section in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”
herein. BB&T conducts its funding activities in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. Following is a brief description of the various sources of funds used by BB&T. For further discussion relating to outstanding balances and
balance fluctuations, refer to the “Deposits and Other Borrowings” section in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” herein.

Deposits

Deposits are attracted principally from clients within
BB&T’s branch network through the offering of a broad selection of deposit instruments to individuals and businesses, including noninterest-bearing checking accounts, interest-bearing checking accounts, savings accounts, money market
deposit accounts, certificates of deposit and individual retirement accounts. Deposit account terms vary with respect to the minimum balance required, the time period the funds must remain on deposit and service charge schedules. Interest rates paid
on specific deposit types are determined based on (i) the interest rates offered by competitors, (ii) the anticipated amount and timing of funding needs, (iii) the availability and cost of alternative sources of funding, and
(iv) the anticipated future economic conditions and interest rates. Client deposits are attractive sources of funding because of their stability and relative cost. Deposits are regarded as an important part of the overall client relationship
and provide opportunities to cross-sell other BB&T services. In addition, BB&T gathers a portion of its deposit base through wholesale funding products, which include negotiable certificates of deposit and Eurodollar deposits through the use
of a Cayman branch facility. At December 31, 2009, these sources of deposits represented approximately 7% of BB&T’s total deposits, compared to 15% at December 31, 2008.

The following table provides information regarding the scheduled
maturities of time deposits that are $100,000 and greater at December 31, 2009:

Table 6

Scheduled Maturities of Time Deposits $100,000 and Greater

December 31, 2009

(Dollars in millions)

Borrowed Funds

BB&T’s ability to borrow funds from nondeposit sources provides additional flexibility in meeting the liquidity needs of the Company. Short-term borrowings include Federal funds purchased,
securities sold under repurchase agreements, master notes, short-term FHLB advances, U.S. Treasury tax and loan depository note accounts and other short-term borrowings. See Note 9 “Federal Funds Purchased, Securities Sold Under Agreements to
Repurchase, and Short-Term Borrowed Funds” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” herein for additional disclosures related to these types of borrowings.



BB&T also utilizes longer-term borrowings when management determines that the pricing
and maturity options available through these sources create cost-effective options for funding asset growth and satisfying capital needs. BB&T’s long-term borrowings include long-term FHLB advances to Branch Bank, senior and subordinated
debt issued by BB&T Corporation and Branch Bank, junior subordinated debt underlying trust preferred securities and capital leases. See Note 10 “Long-Term Debt” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” herein for
additional disclosures related to long-term borrowings.

Employees

At December 31,
2009, BB&T had approximately 32,400 full-time equivalent employees compared to approximately 29,600 full-time equivalent employees at December 31, 2008.

