Item 1A. Risk Factors
Related to BB&T’s Business

Changes in national,
regional and local economic conditions could lead to higher loan charge-offs and reduce BB&T’s net income and growth.

BB&T’s business is subject to periodic fluctuations based on national, regional and local economic conditions. These fluctuations
are not predictable, cannot be controlled, and may have a material adverse impact on the



Company’s operations and financial condition even if other favorable events occur. BB&T’s banking operations are locally oriented and community-based. Accordingly, the Company
expects to continue to be dependent upon local business conditions as well as conditions in the local residential and commercial real estate markets it serves. For example, an increase in unemployment, a decrease in real estate values or increases
in interest rates, as well as other factors, could weaken the economies of the communities BB&T serves. Weakness in BB&T’s market area could depress the Company’s earnings and consequently its financial condition because:

·

customers may not want or need BB&T’s products or services;

·

borrowers may not be able or willing to repay their loans;

·

the value of the collateral securing loans to borrowers may decline; and

·

the quality of BB&T’s loan portfolio may decline.

Any of the latter three scenarios could require the Company
to charge off a higher percentage of loans and/or increase provisions for credit losses, which would reduce the Company’s net income. For example, beginning in 2007 and continuing through much of 2010, BB&T experienced increasing credit
deterioration due to ongoing challenges in the residential real estate markets. This period of credit deterioration combined with flat to declining real estate values resulted in increasing loan charge-offs and higher provisions for credit losses,
which negatively impacted BB&T’s net income.

On August 14, 2009, Branch Bank entered into an agreement with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) to acquire certain assets and assume substantially all of the deposits and
certain liabilities of Colonial Bank, an Alabama state-chartered bank headquartered in Montgomery, Alabama (“Colonial”). As a result, Branch Bank acquired a significant portfolio of loans from Colonial. Although Branch Bank marked down the
acquired loan portfolio to estimated fair value, there is no assurance that the acquired loans will not suffer further deterioration in value resulting in additional charge-offs to this loan portfolio. Fluctuations in national, regional and local
economic conditions, including those related to local residential real estate, commercial real estate and construction markets may increase the level of charge-offs on the loan portfolio that was acquired in the acquisition of Colonial and
correspondingly reduce BB&T’s net income. These fluctuations are not predictable, cannot be controlled and may have a material adverse impact on BB&T’s operations and financial condition even if other favorable events occur.
Although Branch Bank entered into loss sharing agreements with the FDIC, which provide that a significant portion of losses related to specified loan portfolios that were acquired in connection with the acquisition of Colonial will be borne by the
FDIC, Branch Bank is not protected from all losses resulting from charge-offs with respect to those specified loan portfolios. Additionally, the loss sharing agreements have limited terms; therefore, any charge-off of related losses that Branch Bank
experiences after the term of the loss sharing agreements will not be reimbursed by the FDIC and will negatively impact BB&T’s net income. In connection with the acquisition of Colonial, Branch Bank also acquired certain loan portfolios
that are not subject to the loss sharing agreements. Any charge-offs related to these loan portfolios will be borne by Branch Bank in full and would also negatively impact BB&T’s net income.

Weakness in the markets for residential or commercial real estate,
including the secondary residential mortgage loan markets, could reduce BB&T’s net income and profitability.

Since 2007, softening residential housing markets, increasing delinquency and default rates, and increasingly volatile and constrained
secondary credit markets have been negatively impacting the mortgage industry. BB&T’s financial results have been adversely affected by changes in real estate values, primarily in Georgia, Florida and metro Washington, D.C., with some
deterioration in the coastal areas of the Carolinas. Decreases in real estate values have adversely affected the value of property used as collateral for loans and investments in BB&T’s portfolio. The poor economic conditions experienced in
2007 through 2010 resulted in decreased demand for real estate loans, and BB&T’s net income and profits have suffered as a result.

The declines in home prices in many markets across the U.S., including a number of markets in BB&T’s banking footprint (primarily
in Georgia, Florida, and metro Washington, D.C., with some deterioration in the coastal areas of the Carolinas), along with the reduced availability of mortgage credit, also has resulted in increases in delinquencies and losses in BB&T’s
portfolio of loans related to residential real estate, including its acquisition, development and construction loan portfolio. Further declines in home prices within BB&T’s banking



footprint (including markets that to date have not experienced significant declines) coupled with the continued impact of the economic recession and high unemployment levels could drive losses
beyond the levels provided for in BB&T’s allowance for loan losses. In that event, BB&T’s future earnings would be adversely affected.

Significant ongoing disruption in the secondary market for residential mortgage loans has limited the market for and liquidity of most
mortgage loans other than conforming Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae loans. The effects of ongoing mortgage market challenges, combined with the ongoing correction in residential real estate market prices and reduced levels of home sales has
resulted in price reductions in single family home values, adversely affecting the value of collateral securing mortgage loans held and mortgage loan originations. Continued declines in real estate values and home sales volumes within
BB&T’s banking footprint, and financial stress on borrowers as a result of job losses, or other factors, could have further adverse effects on borrowers that result in higher delinquencies and greater charge-offs in future periods, which
would adversely affect BB&T’s financial condition and results of operations.

The Colonial acquisition has increased Branch Bank’s commercial real estate and construction loan portfolio, which have a greater credit risk than residential mortgage loans.

With the acquisition of the Colonial loan portfolio, the
commercial real estate loan and construction loan portfolios have become a larger portion of Branch Bank’s total loan portfolio than it was prior to the Colonial acquisition. This type of lending is generally considered to have more complex
credit risks than traditional single-family residential lending, because the principal is concentrated in a limited number of loans with repayment dependent on the successful operation of the related real estate or construction project.
Consequently, these loans are more sensitive to the current adverse conditions in the real estate market and the general economy. These loans are generally less predictable, more difficult to evaluate and monitor, and collateral may be more
difficult to dispose of in a market decline. However, the negative economic aspects of these risks are substantially reduced as a result of the FDIC loss sharing agreements.

Increases in FDIC insurance premiums and changes to deposit insurance
assessment methodologies may adversely affect BB&T’s net income and profitability.

During 2008 and continuing in 2010, higher levels of bank failures have dramatically increased resolution costs of the FDIC and depleted the deposit insurance fund. In addition, the FDIC instituted two
temporary programs to further insure customer deposits at FDIC insured banks: deposit accounts are now insured up to $250,000 per customer (up from $100,000) and noninterest-bearing transactional accounts are currently fully insured (unlimited
coverage). These programs have placed additional stress on the deposit insurance fund. In order to maintain a strong funding position and restore reserve ratios of the deposit insurance fund, the FDIC has increased assessment rates of insured
institutions. On November 12, 2009, the FDIC adopted a rule that required banks to prepay three years’ worth of estimated deposit insurance premiums by December 31, 2009. BB&T is generally unable to control the amount of premiums
that the Company is required to pay for FDIC insurance. The Dodd-Frank Act also imposes additional assessments and costs with respect to deposits, requiring the FDIC to impose deposit insurance assessments based on total assets rather than total
deposits, as well as making permanent the increase of deposit insurance to $250,000 and providing for full insurance of non-interest bearing transaction accounts beginning December 31, 2010, for two years. For additional information regarding
changes with respect to deposit insurance assessments, see “Regulatory Considerations” below. These announced increases, legislative and regulatory changes and any future increases or required prepayments of FDIC insurance premiums may
adversely impact BB&T’s earnings and financial condition. If there are additional bank or financial institution failures, or the cost of resolving prior failures exceeds expectations, the Company may be required to pay even higher FDIC
premiums than the recently increased levels.

Market
developments may adversely affect BB&T’s industry, business and results of operations.

Significant declines in the housing market, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in
significant write-downs of asset values by many financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities and major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to credit default
swaps and other derivative securities, caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases,



to fail. BB&T has produced quarterly earnings during 2009 and 2010; however, during this time BB&T has experienced significant challenges, its credit quality has deteriorated and its net
income and results of operations have been adversely impacted. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced, and in some cases,
ceased to provide funding to borrowers including other financial institutions. Although to date BB&T has performed relatively well during the financial crisis and current economic recovery as compared with the Company’s peers and several of
the largest financial institutions, BB&T is part of the financial system and a systemic lack of available credit, a lack of confidence in the financial sector, increased volatility in the financial markets and/or reduced business activity could
materially adversely affect BB&T’s business, financial condition and results of operations.

The capital and credit markets have experienced unprecedented levels of volatility, which could jeopardize BB&T’s overall liquidity and capitalization.

During the economic downturn, the capital and credit markets
experienced extended volatility and disruption. In some cases, the markets produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit capacity for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If these levels of
market disruption and volatility continue, worsen or abate and then arise at a later date, BB&T’s ability to access capital could be materially impaired. BB&T’s inability to access the capital markets could constrain the
Company’s ability to make new loans, to meet the Company’s existing lending commitments and, ultimately jeopardize the Company’s overall liquidity and capitalization.

BB&T’s liquidity could be impaired by an inability to access the capital markets, an unforeseen outflow of cash or
a reduction in the credit ratings for BB&T or its subsidiaries.

Liquidity is essential to BB&T’s businesses. Due to circumstances that BB&T may be unable to control, such as a general market disruption or an operational problem that affects third parties
or BB&T, BB&T’s liquidity could be impaired by an inability to access the capital markets or an unforeseen outflow of cash.

BB&T’s credit ratings are also important to its liquidity. The major credit rating agencies downgraded BB&T’s credit
ratings during 2009 and 2010. These rating agencies regularly evaluate BB&T and its subsidiaries, and their ratings are based on a number of factors, including the financial strength of BB&T and its subsidiaries, as well as factors not
entirely within BB&T’s control, including conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. In light of the difficulties in the financial services industry and the housing and financial markets, there can be no assurance that
BB&T will maintain its current ratings. A reduction in BB&T’s credit ratings could adversely affect BB&T’s liquidity and competitive position, increase its borrowing costs, limit its access to the capital markets or trigger
unfavorable contractual obligations.

The soundness of other
financial institutions could adversely affect BB&T.

Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. BB&T has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and BB&T
and certain of its subsidiaries routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. Many
of these transactions expose the Company to credit risk in the event of default of its counterparty or client. In addition, the Company’s credit risk may be exacerbated when collateral is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full
amount of the loan or derivative exposure due BB&T. These types of losses could materially and adversely affect BB&T’s results of operations or financial condition.

Changes in interest rates may have an adverse effect on BB&T’s
profitability.

BB&T’s earnings and
financial condition are dependent to a large degree upon net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned from loans and investments and interest paid on deposits and borrowings. The narrowing of interest rate spreads, meaning
the difference between interest rates earned on loans and investments and the interest rates paid on deposits and borrowings, could adversely affect BB&T’s earnings and financial condition. The Company cannot control or predict with
certainty changes in interest rates. Regional and



local economic conditions, competitive pressures and the policies of regulatory authorities, including monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board, affect interest income and interest expense.
The Company has ongoing policies and procedures designed to manage the risks associated with changes in market interest rates. However, changes in interest rates still may have an adverse effect on BB&T’s profitability. For example, high
interest rates could adversely affect the Company’s mortgage banking business because higher interest rates could cause customers to apply for fewer mortgage refinancings or purchase mortgages.

Changes in banking laws could have a material adverse effect on BB&T.

BB&T is extensively regulated under
federal and state banking laws and regulations that are intended primarily for the protection of depositors, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole. In addition, the Company is subject to changes in federal and state laws
as well as changes in banking and credit regulations, and governmental economic and monetary policies. BB&T cannot predict whether any of these changes may adversely and materially affect the Company. The current regulatory environment for
financial institutions entails significant potential increases in compliance requirements and associated costs, including those related to consumer credit, with a focus on mortgage lending. For example, the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act represents
a significant overhaul of many aspects of the regulation of the financial services industry, which could result in higher compliance costs and otherwise materially adversely affect BB&T’s business, financial condition or results of
operations. See “Regulatory Considerations” below and the immediately following risk factor for additional information regarding the Dodd-Frank Act and its potential impact upon BB&T and its subsidiaries.

Federal and state banking regulators also possess broad
powers to take supervisory actions as they deem appropriate. These supervisory actions may result in higher capital requirements, higher insurance premiums and limitations on BB&T’s activities that could have a material adverse effect on
the Company’s business and profitability.

The passage of
the Dodd-Frank Act may result in lower revenues, higher costs and ratings downgrades.

On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Act. The Dodd-Frank Act represents a significant overhaul of many aspects of the regulation of the financial services industry,
addressing, among other things, systemic risk, capital adequacy, deposit insurance assessments, consumer financial protection, interchange fees, derivatives, lending limits, and changes among the bank regulatory agencies. Many of these provisions
are subject to further study, rule making, and the discretion of regulatory bodies, such as the Financial Stability Oversight Council, which will regulate the systemic risk of the financial system. Due to BB&T’s size, the Company will be
designated as “systemically significant” to the financial health of the U.S. economy and, as a result, may be subject to additional regulations. BB&T cannot predict the effect that compliance with the Dodd-Frank Act or any implementing
regulations will have on BB&T’s businesses or its ability to pursue future business opportunities. Additional regulations resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act may materially adversely affect BB&T’s business, financial condition or
results of operations. See “Regulatory Considerations” below for additional information regarding the Dodd-Frank Act and its impact upon BB&T and its subsidiaries.

The provisions of the Dodd Frank Act restricting bank interchange fees,
and any rules promulgated thereunder, may negatively impact BB&T’s revenues and earnings.

Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the Federal Reserve must adopt rules regarding the interchange fees that may be charged with respect to
electronic debit transactions, to take effect one year after enactment. The limits to be placed on debit interchange fees may significantly reduce BB&T’s debit card interchange revenues. Interchange fees, or “swipe” fees, are
charges that merchants pay to BB&T and other credit card companies and card-issuing banks for processing electronic payment transactions. The Dodd-Frank Act provides the Federal Reserve with authority over interchange fees received or charged by
a card issuer, requires that fees must be “reasonable and proportional” to the costs of processing such transactions. Although final rules have not yet been adopted, this provision of the Dodd-Frank Act and the applicable rules ultimately
promulgated thereunder are expected to cause significant reductions in future card-fee revenues generated by BB&T, while also creating meaningful compliance costs. See “Regulatory Considerations” below for additional information
regarding the limits on interchange fees imposed under the Dodd-Frank Act.



Recently enacted consumer protection regulations related to automated overdraft payment programs could
adversely affect BB&T’s business operations, net income and profitability.

The Federal Reserve and FDIC recently enacted consumer protection regulations related to automated overdraft payment programs offered by financial institutions, which are described below under the heading
“Regulatory Considerations—Automated Overdraft Payment Regulation.” BB&T has implemented, and is in the process of further implementing, changes to its business practices relating to overdraft payment programs in order to comply
with these regulations.

For the years ended
December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, Branch Bank’s overdraft and insufficient funds fees have represented a significant amount of non-interest fees collected by Branch Bank. Implementing the changes required by these regulations
will decrease the amount of fees Branch Bank receives for automated overdraft payment services and adversely impact BB&T’s non-interest income. Complying with these regulations has resulted in increased operational costs for BB&T and
Branch Bank, which may continue to rise. In addition, BB&T may be placed at a competitive disadvantage to the extent that its competitors are not subject to the FDIC’s automated overdraft payment program regulations. The actual impact of
these regulations in future periods could vary due to a variety of factors, including changes in customer behavior, economic conditions and other factors, which could adversely affect BB&T’s business operations, net income and
profitability.

BB&T may be subject to more stringent
capital requirements which could diminish its ability to pay dividends or require the Company to reduce its operations.

The Dodd-Frank Act requires federal banking agencies to establish more stringent risk-based capital requirements and leverage limits
applicable to banks and bank holding companies. Under the legislation, federal banking agencies are required to develop capital requirements that address systemically risky activities. The effect of these capital rules will disallow trust preferred
securities from counting as Tier 1 capital at the holding company level for entities with greater than $15 billion in assets, with a three-year phase-in period beginning on January 1, 2013. These requirements, and any other new regulations,
including those that may be imposed as a result of the requirements established by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, could adversely affect BB&T’s ability to pay dividends, or could require BB&T to reduce business levels or to
raise capital, including ways that may adversely affect its results of operations or financial condition.

BB&T may experience significant competition in its market area, which may reduce the Company’s customer base.

There is intense competition among commercial banks in
BB&T’s market area. In addition, BB&T competes with other providers of financial services, such as savings and loan associations, credit unions, consumer finance companies, securities firms, insurance companies, commercial finance and
leasing companies, the mutual funds industry, full-service brokerage firms and discount brokerage firms, some of which are subject to less extensive regulations than BB&T is with respect to the products and services they provide.

Some of BB&T’s larger competitors, including certain
national banks that have a significant presence in BB&T’s market area, may have greater capital and resources than BB&T, may have higher lending limits and may offer products and services not offered by BB&T. Although BB&T
remains strong, stable and well capitalized, management cannot predict the reaction of customers and other third parties with which BB&T conducts business with respect to the strength of BB&T relative to its competitors, including its larger
competitors. Any potential adverse reactions to BB&T’s financial condition or status in the marketplace, as compared to its competitors, could limit BB&T’s ability to attract and retain customers and to compete for new business
opportunities. The inability to attract and retain customers or to effectively compete for new business may have a material and adverse effect on BB&T’s financial condition and results of operations.

BB&T also experiences competition from a variety of
institutions outside of the Company’s market area. Some of these institutions conduct business primarily over the Internet and may thus be able to realize certain cost savings and offer products and services at more favorable rates and with
greater convenience to the customer who can pay bills and transfer funds directly without going through a bank. This “disintermediation” could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and income generated
from those deposits. In addition, changes in consumer spending and saving habits could adversely affect BB&T’s operations, and the Company may be unable to timely develop competitive new products and services in response to these changes.



Maintaining or increasing BB&T’s market share may depend on lowering prices and market
acceptance of new products and services.

BB&T’s success depends, in part, on its ability to adapt its products and services to evolving industry standards. There is
increasing pressure to provide products and services at lower prices. Lower prices can reduce BB&T’s net interest margin and revenues from its fee-based products and services. In addition, the widespread adoption of new technologies,
including internet banking services, mobile phone applications and advanced ATM functionality could require BB&T to make substantial expenditures to modify or adapt its existing products and services. Also, these and other capital investments in
BB&T’s business may not produce expected growth in earnings anticipated at the time of the expenditure. BB&T may not be successful in introducing new products and services, achieving market acceptance of its products and services,
anticipating or reacting to consumers’ changing technological preferences or developing and maintaining loyal customers.

BB&T has expanded operations into new geographic areas as a result of the Colonial acquisition, and the inability to continue to effectively
compete in these new markets could adversely affect BB&T’s business.

Portions of the market areas served by Colonial, including market areas in Alabama, Florida and Texas, are areas in which BB&T historically conducted limited or no banking activities. Although
BB&T has completed the operational and systems integration associated with the assets acquired in the Colonial transaction, BB&T must continue to effectively integrate these new markets to retain and expand the business previously conducted
by Colonial. While BB&T management believes it has to date competed effectively in these new markets, the ability to strengthen and further enhance market presence will remain dependent upon BB&T’s ability to understand the local market
and competitive dynamics and identify and retain certain employees from Colonial who know their markets better than BB&T.

Acts or threats of terrorism and political or military actions taken by the United States or other governments could adversely affect general economic
or industry conditions.

Geopolitical
conditions may affect BB&T’s earnings. Acts or threats of terrorism and political or military actions taken by the United States or other governments in response to terrorism, or similar activity, could adversely affect general economic or
industry conditions.

Unpredictable catastrophic events could
have a material adverse effect on BB&T.

The occurrence of catastrophic events such as hurricanes, tropical storms, earthquakes, pandemic disease, windstorms, floods, severe
winter weather (including snow, freezing water, ice storms and blizzards), fires and other catastrophes could adversely affect BB&T’s consolidated financial condition or results of operations. Unpredictable natural and other disasters could
have an adverse effect on the Company in that such events could materially disrupt its operations or the ability or willingness of its customers to access the financial services offered by BB&T. The Company’s property and casualty insurance
operations also expose it to claims arising out of catastrophes. The incidence and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable. Although the Company carries insurance to mitigate its exposure to certain catastrophic events, these events
could nevertheless reduce BB&T’s earnings and cause volatility in its financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and have a material adverse effect on BB&T’s financial condition and/or results of operations.

BB&T faces significant operational risks related to activities, which
could expose it to negative publicity, litigation and/or regulatory action.

BB&T is exposed to many types of risks, including operational, reputational, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, unauthorized transactions by employees or
operational errors, including clerical or record-keeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems. Negative public opinion can result from BB&T’s actual or alleged conduct in any number of
activities, including lending practices, corporate governance and acquisitions, activities related to asset sales and balance sheet management and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those
activities. Negative public opinion can adversely affect BB&T’s ability to attract and keep customers and can expose it to litigation and regulatory action.



Because the nature of the financial services business involves a high volume of
transactions, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and successfully rectified. BB&T’s necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process its transaction volume may further increase the risk
that technical flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. BB&T also may be subject to disruptions of its operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially
beyond its control (for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages), which may give rise to disruption of service to customers and to financial loss or liability. BB&T is further exposed to the risk that its external
vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as is BB&T) and to the risk that BB&T’s (or its vendors’) business
continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate.

BB&T’s reported financial results are impacted by management’s selection of accounting methods and certain assumptions and estimates.

BB&T’s accounting policies and
methods are fundamental to the way the Company records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so
they comply with generally accepted accounting principles and reflect management’s judgment of the most appropriate manner to report BB&T’s financial condition and results. In some cases, management must select the accounting policy or
method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which may be reasonable under the circumstances, yet may result in the Company reporting materially different results than would have been reported under a different alternative.

Certain accounting policies are critical to presenting
BB&T’s financial condition and results. They require management to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments about matters that are uncertain. Materially different amounts could be reported under different conditions or using
different assumptions or estimates. These critical accounting policies include: the allowance for credit losses; the determination of fair value for financial instruments; the valuation of goodwill and other intangible assets; the accounting for
pension and postretirement benefits and the accounting for income taxes. Because of the uncertainty of estimates involved in these matters, the Company may be required to do one or more of the following: significantly increase the allowance for
credit losses and/or sustain credit losses that are significantly higher than the reserve provided; recognize significant impairment on its financial instruments, goodwill and other intangible asset balances; or significantly increase its
liabilities for taxes or pension and post retirement benefits.

Prior to its acquisition, Colonial was the subject of several regulatory investigations and a criminal investigation and these investigations, which
are ongoing, may require significant resources and management attention.

Prior to its acquisition, Colonial was the subject of a federal criminal investigation relating to the bank’s mortgage warehouse lending division and related irregularities. Colonial also received
subpoenas from the Special Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program and the SEC. Although the assets and liabilities that the FDIC determined are related to alleged fraudulent or criminal activities were excluded from the acquisition
of Colonial, BB&T has cooperated with the authorities as appropriate (and expects to continue to do so), including providing information about Colonial that is now in BB&T’s possession. These efforts may be costly and may divert the
attention of management.

BB&T’s business could suffer
if it fails to attract and retain skilled people.

BB&T’s success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best people in most activities in which the Company engages can be intense. The
Dodd-Frank Act provides for the implementation of a variety of corporate governance and compensation practices applicable to all public companies, including BB&T, which may impact certain of BB&T’s executive officers and employees.
These provisions include, but are not limited to, requiring companies to “claw back” incentive compensation under certain circumstances, provide stockholders the opportunity to cast a non-binding vote on executive compensation, to consider
the independence of compensation advisors and new executive compensation disclosure



requirements. Such provisions with respect to compensation, in addition to other competitive pressures, may have an adverse effect on the ability of BB&T to attract and retain skilled
personnel, resulting in BB&T not being able to hire the best people or to retain them.

BB&T relies on other companies to provide certain key components of its business infrastructure.

Third party vendors provide certain key components of BB&T’s business infrastructure such as internet connections, network access
and mutual fund distribution. While BB&T has selected these third party vendors carefully, its does not control their operations. Any problems caused by these third parties, including those which result from their failure to provide services for
any reason or their poor performance of services, could adversely affect BB&T’s ability to deliver products and services to its customers and otherwise to conduct its business. Replacing these third party vendors could also entail
significant delay and expense.

Significant litigation could
have a material adverse effect on BB&T.

BB&T faces legal risks in its business, and the volume of claims and amount of damages and penalties claimed in litigation and
regulatory proceedings against financial institutions remain high. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against BB&T may have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to BB&T, which in
turn could seriously harm BB&T’s business prospects.

BB&T faces systems failure risks as well as security risks, including “hacking” and “identity theft.”

The computer systems and network infrastructure BB&T and
others use could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. These problems may arise in both the Company’s internally developed systems and the systems of its third-party service providers. The Company’s operations are dependent upon its
ability to protect computer equipment against damage from fire, power loss or telecommunication failure. Any damage or failure that causes an interruption in the Company’s operations could adversely affect BB&T’s business and financial
results. In addition, the Company’s computer systems and network infrastructure present security risks, and could be susceptible to hacking or identity theft.

Differences in interpretation of tax laws and regulations may adversely
impact BB&T’s financial statements.

Local, state or federal tax authorities may interpret tax laws and regulations differently than BB&T and challenge tax positions that
BB&T has taken on its tax returns. This may result in differences in the treatment of revenues, deductions or credits, and/or differences in the timing of these items. The differences in treatment may result in the payment of additional taxes,
interest or penalties that could have a material adverse effect on BB&T’s performance.

Changes in accounting standards could materially impact BB&T’s financial statements.

From time to time accounting standards setters change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of
BB&T’s financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how the Company records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, the Company could be required to apply a new
or revised standard retroactively, resulting in changes to previously reported financial results, or a cumulative charge to retained earnings.

BB&T may not be able to successfully integrate bank or nonbank mergers and acquisitions.

Difficulties may arise in the integration of the business
and operations of bank holding companies, banks and other nonbank entities BB&T acquires and, as a result, the Company may not be able to achieve the cost savings and synergies that it expects will result from such transactions. Achieving cost
savings is dependent on consolidating certain operational and functional areas, eliminating duplicative positions and terminating certain agreements for outside services. Additional operational savings are dependent upon the integration of the
acquired or merged entity’s businesses with BB&T or one of BB&T’s subsidiaries, the conversion of core operating systems, data systems and products and the standardization of business practices. Complications or difficulties in the
conversion of the core operating systems, data systems and products may result in the loss of customers, damage to BB&T’s reputation within the financial services industry, operational problems, one-time



costs currently not anticipated or reduced cost savings resulting from such mergers or acquisitions. Annual cost savings in each such transaction may be materially less than anticipated if the
holding company, bank merger or nonbank merger or acquisition is delayed unexpectedly, the integration of operations is delayed beyond what is anticipated or the conversion to a single data system is not accomplished on a timely basis.

Difficulty in integrating an acquired company may cause the
Company not to realize expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence and/or other projected benefits from the acquisition. The integration could result in higher than expected deposit attrition, loss of key
employees, disruption of BB&T’s businesses or the businesses of the acquired company, or otherwise adversely affect the Company’s ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or achieve the anticipated benefits of the
acquisition. Also, the negative effect of any divestitures required by regulatory authorities in acquisitions or business combinations may be greater than expected.

BB&T may not receive the regulatory approvals required to complete a
bank merger.

BB&T must generally receive
federal and/or state regulatory approvals before it can acquire a bank or bank holding company. In determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition, bank regulators will consider, among other factors, the effect of the acquisition on
competition, financial condition and future prospects, including current and projected capital ratios and levels, the competence, experience and integrity of management and record of compliance with laws and regulations, the convenience and needs of
the communities to be served, including the acquiring institution’s record of compliance under the Community Reinvestment Act, and the effectiveness of the acquiring institution in combating money laundering activities. In addition, BB&T
cannot be certain when or if, or on what terms and conditions, any required regulatory approvals will be granted. In specific cases the Company may be required to sell banks or branches, or take other actions as a condition to receiving regulatory
approval.

BB&T’s stock price can be volatile.

BB&T’s stock price can fluctuate
widely in response to a variety of factors including:

·

actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results;

·

recommendations by securities analysts;

·

new technology used, or services offered, by competitors;

·

significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving the Company or the
Company’s competitors;

·

failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits from acquisitions;

·

operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to BB&T;

·

news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry;

·

changes in government regulations, accounting standards and tax laws; and

·

geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts.

General market fluctuations, industry factors and general
economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes, credit loss trends, or currency fluctuations could also cause BB&T’s stock price to decrease regardless of the Company’s
operating results.

Operating Subsidiaries

At December 31, 2010, the principal operating
subsidiaries of BB&T included the following:

·

Branch Banking and Trust Company, Winston-Salem, North Carolina

·

BB&T Financial, FSB, Columbus, Georgia

·

Scott & Stringfellow, LLC, Richmond, Virginia



·

Clearview Correspondent Services, LLC, Richmond, Virginia

·

Regional Acceptance Corporation, Greenville, North Carolina

·

American Coastal Insurance Company, Davie, Florida

·

Sterling Capital Management, LLC, Charlotte, North Carolina

Branch Bank, BB&T’s largest subsidiary, was
chartered in 1872 and is the oldest bank headquartered in North Carolina. Branch Bank provides a wide range of banking and trust services for retail and commercial clients in its geographic markets, including small and mid-size businesses, public
agencies, local governments and individuals, through 1,782 offices (as of December 31, 2010) located in North Carolina, Virginia, Florida, Georgia, Maryland, South Carolina, Alabama, Kentucky, West Virginia, Tennessee, Texas, Washington D.C and
Indiana. Branch Bank’s principal operating subsidiaries include:

·

BB&T Equipment Finance Corporation, based in Charlotte, North Carolina, which provides loan and lease financing to commercial and small businesses;

·

BB&T Investment Services, Inc., a registered broker-dealer located in Charlotte, North Carolina, which offers clients non-deposit investment
alternatives, including discount brokerage services, equities, fixed-rate, variable-rate and index annuities, mutual funds, government and municipal bonds, and money market funds;

·

BB&T Insurance Services, Inc., headquartered in Raleigh, North Carolina, which offers property and casualty, life, health, employee benefits,
commercial general liability, surety, title and other insurance products through its agency network;

·

Stanley, Hunt, DuPree & Rhine, Inc., (a division of Branch Bank) with dual headquarters in Greensboro, North Carolina, and Greenville, South
Carolina, which offers flexible benefit plans, and investment advisory, actuarial and benefit consulting services;

·

Prime Rate Premium Finance Corporation, Inc., located in Florence, South Carolina, and its subsidiary AFCO Credit Corporation, headquartered in
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, which provide insurance premium financing to clients in the United States and Canada;

·

Grandbridge Real Estate Capital, LLC, based in Charlotte, North Carolina, which specializes in arranging and servicing commercial mortgage loans;

·

Lendmark Financial Services, Inc., located in Covington, Georgia, which offers alternative consumer loans to clients unable to meet Branch Bank’s
normal credit underwriting guidelines;

·

CRC Insurance Services, Inc., based in Birmingham, Alabama, which is a wholesale insurance broker authorized to do business nationwide; and

·

McGriff, Seibels & Williams, Inc., based in Birmingham, Alabama, which is authorized to do business nationwide and specializes in providing
insurance products on an agency basis to large commercial and energy clients, including many Fortune 500 companies.

BB&T FSB is a federal savings bank. BB&T FSB provides services to clients throughout the United States and was formed to help
improve the operating efficiency of certain business activities for subsidiaries which are national in scope. In addition to credit card lending, the following businesses operate as either subsidiaries or divisions of BB&T FSB:

·

Sheffield Financial (a division of BB&T FSB), based in Clemmons, North Carolina, which specializes in loans to small commercial lawn care
businesses across the country for the purchase of outdoor power equipment and loans to individuals for power sport and leisure equipment; and

·

MidAmerica Gift Certificate Company, which specializes in the issuance and sale of retail giftcards through a nationwide network of authorized agents.



Major Nonbank Subsidiaries

BB&T also has a number of nonbank subsidiaries, including:

·

Scott & Stringfellow, LLC, which is a registered investment banking and full-service brokerage firm that provides services in retail
brokerage, equity and debt underwriting, investment advice, corporate finance and equity research; and facilitates the origination, trading and distribution of fixed-income securities and equity products in both the public and private capital
markets. It also has a public finance department that provides investment banking, financial advisory services and debt underwriting services to a variety of regional taxable and tax-exempt issuers. Scott & Stringfellow’s investment
banking and corporate and public finance areas conduct business as BB&T Capital Markets;

·

Clearview Correspondent Services, LLC is a broker-dealer providing correspondent clearing services to other broker-dealers and entities involved in the
securities industry. As a correspondent clearing firm, it provides clearing services to affiliated and unaffiliated broker-dealers;

·

Regional Acceptance Corporation, which specializes in indirect financing for consumer purchases of primarily mid-model and late-model used automobiles;

·

American Coastal Insurance Company, an admitted Florida specialty insurance company that underwrites property insurance risks for commercial
condominium or cooperative associations; and

·

Sterling Capital Management, LLC, a registered investment advisor and the advisor to the BB&T Funds (the BB&T Funds were renamed Sterling
Capital Funds in February 2011), provides tailored investment management solutions to meet the specific needs and objectives of individual and institutional clients through a full range of investment strategies, including domestic and international
equity, alternative investment products and strategies, and fixed income investing.

Services

BB&T’s subsidiaries offer a variety of services targeted to retail and commercial clients. BB&T’s objective is to offer
clients a full array of products to meet all their financial needs.



The following table reflects BB&T’s deposit market share and branch locations by
state.

Table 1

BB&T Deposit Market Share and Branch Locations by State

(1)

Excludes home office deposits.

(2)

Source: FDIC.gov—data as of June 30, 2010.

(3)

As of December 31, 2010. Excludes 2 branches in Indiana.

Executive Overview

Significant accomplishments in 2010

In the opinion of BB&T’s management, the Corporation’s most significant accomplishments during 2010 were as follows (amounts
include the impact of acquisitions where applicable):

·

Achieved outstanding client service and client loyalty scores based on independent survey

·

Average client deposits increased 9.2%

·

Produced fully taxable-equivalent revenue growth of 5.8%, a record $9.4 billion

·

Successfully executed the systems conversion of Colonial, the largest acquisition in BB&T’s history

·

Maintained safety, soundness and profitability through the recession

·

Successfully implemented nonperforming asset disposition strategy

·

Enhanced risk management structure

·

Maintained a strong dividend payout

Challenges

BB&T’s business has become more dynamic and complex in recent years. Consequently, management has annually evaluated and, as
necessary, adjusted the Corporation’s business strategy in the context of the current operating environment. During this process, management considers the current financial condition and performance of the Company and its expectations for
future economic activity, both on a national and local market scale. The achievement of BB&T’s key strategic objectives and established long-term financial goals is subject to many uncertainties and challenges. In the opinion of management,
the challenges that are most relevant and likely to have a near term impact on performance are presented below:

·

Economic impact from deepest global recession in decades

·

Unprecedented disruption and significantly increased risk in financial markets



·

Effectively managing through the credit cycle

·

Residential real estate risk / risk of deterioration spreading to other asset classes

·

Intense competition for best credits within the financial services industry

·

Cost and risk associated with the regulatory initiatives

·

Over-capacity in financial services industry

Overview of Significant Events and Financial Results

The operating environment for financial holding companies
continued to be difficult during 2010, as the economy continued to deal with the aftermath of the deepest global recession in decades. BB&T continued to perform relatively well compared to peers and executed on a number of initiatives to ensure
that the Company emerges from the credit cycle stronger.

During the second quarter of 2010, management implemented a comprehensive nonperforming asset disposition strategy with a goal of more aggressively reducing BB&T’s exposure to nonperforming loans
and foreclosed properties and to reduce or eliminate any delay in exiting the credit cycle. The strategy was implemented during the second quarter of 2010 as management believed that pricing for distressed assets had improved. This strategy
continued throughout the third and fourth quarters and into 2011. As a result of the strategy, nonperforming assets, excluding covered foreclosed property, declined from a peak of $4.4 billion at March 31, 2010, to $4.0 billion as of year-end.

Management also undertook several initiatives
during 2010 to strengthen BB&T’s balance sheet. In the second quarter of 2010, management executed on a deleveraging strategy to better position BB&T’s balance sheet for a rising rate environment and achieve a better mix of earning
assets. In connection with this strategy, management reduced the balance sheet by approximately $8 billion through the sale of securities. During the third and fourth quarters of 2010, management executed a strategy to further de-risk the
available-for-sale securities portfolio. The de-risking strategy was aimed at further reducing the duration of the securities portfolio and reducing the risk of charges to other comprehensive income in a rising rate environment. In addition,
management sold approximately $400 million of non-agency mortgage-backed securities to reduce the potential for future credit losses. These strategies were the primary driver in generating net securities gains during 2010.

Early in the third quarter, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed
into law. This legislation represents one of the more significant legislative actions to affect the financial services industry. While many of the provisions of the legislation will have minimal or no financial impact to BB&T, certain aspects
are likely to result in higher costs and reduced revenues in the near term. Over the longer-term, management expects that changes in products and services offered will minimize or eliminate many of the negative financial impacts to BB&T. For
further discussion of the more significant items included in the Dodd-Frank Act refer to the section titled “Regulatory Considerations.”

During the fourth quarter of 2010, the Corporation acquired the remaining 30% ownership interest in Sterling Capital Management, LLC and
merged it with its existing investment advisor BB&T Asset Management, Inc. The merger provides improved operational efficiencies and enhanced client service.

Consolidated net income for 2010 totaled $854 million, a
decrease of $23 million, or 2.6%, compared to $877 million earned during 2009. Consolidated net income available to common shareholders for 2010 totaled $816 million, an increase of $87 million, or 11.9%, compared to $729 million earned during
2009. Net income available to common shareholders for 2009 included a reduction of $124 million related to the U.S. Treasury’s preferred stock investment in BB&T. On a diluted per common share basis, earnings for 2010 were $1.16, compared
to $1.15 for 2009. BB&T’s results of operations for 2010 produced a return on average assets of .54% and a return on average common shareholders’ equity of 4.85% compared to prior year ratios of .56% and 4.93%, respectively.

BB&T generated record revenues totaling $9.4
billion, on a tax-equivalent basis, for 2010, which was up 5.8% compared to 2009. This was primarily due to growth of 9.9% in fully taxable-equivalent net interest income. The growth in net interest income was the result of expansion in the net
interest margin from 3.66% in 2009 to 4.03% in 2010. This improvement reflects higher yields on assets acquired in the Colonial acquisition and lower deposit costs.



Credit costs remained high during 2010. BB&T recorded a $2.6 billion provision for
credit losses in 2010 compared to a $2.8 billion provision for credit losses recorded during 2009. Net charge-offs for 2010 totaled $2.5 billion compared to $1.8 billion for 2009. Net charge-offs for 2010 included $605 million related to the
nonperforming assets disposition strategy. In addition, foreclosed property expenses were $747 million in 2010 compared to $356 million in 2009. However, nonperforming assets, excluding covered assets, declined 9.6% over the last three quarters of
2010 due to the successful execution of BB&T’s nonperforming asset disposition strategy.

BB&T’s total assets at December 31, 2010 were $157.1 billion, a decrease of $8.7 billion, or 5.2%, compared to December 31, 2009. Total loans and leases at December 31, 2010 were
$107.3 billion, an increase of $1.1 billion, or 1.0%, compared to the balance at year-end 2009. Securities available for sale decreased $10.1 billion compared to December 31, 2009, primarily due to the deleveraging strategy executed during the
second quarter of 2010.

Total client deposits at
December 31, 2010 were $100.0 billion, a decrease of $6.7 billion, or 6.3%, from December 31, 2009. Total deposits, which include wholesale deposit sources, totaled $107.2 billion at December 31, 2010, a decrease of $7.8 billion, or
6.7%, compared to December 31, 2009. The decrease in client deposits was a result of a decrease of $11.0 billion, or 34.0%, in certificates of deposit as more expensive deposits were not renewed. BB&T has seen an improvement in the deposit
mix with noninterest-bearing accounts representing 19.2% of total deposits at December 31, 2010, compared with 16.5% at December 31, 2009.

Total shareholders’ equity increased 1.6% compared to December 31, 2009. BB&T’s common equity increased primarily as a
result of retained earnings. The Tier 1 common ratio was 9.1% at December 31, 2010. In addition, the Tier 1 risk-based capital and total risk-based capital ratios were 11.8% and 15.5% at December 31, 2010, respectively. BB&T’s
risk-based and tangible capital ratios remain well above regulatory standards for well-capitalized banks. As of December 31, 2010, measures of tangible capital were not required by the regulators and, therefore, were considered non-GAAP
measures. Please refer to the section titled “Capital” herein for a discussion of how BB&T calculates and uses these measures in the evaluation of the Company.

Competition

The financial services industry is highly competitive and dramatic change continues to occur in all aspects of
the Company’s business. The ability of nonbank financial entities to provide services previously reserved for commercial banks has intensified competition. BB&T’s subsidiaries compete actively with national, regional and local
financial services providers, including banks, thrifts, securities dealers, mortgage bankers, finance companies and insurance companies. Competition among providers of financial products and services continues to increase, with consumers having the
opportunity to select from a growing variety of traditional and nontraditional alternatives. The industry continues to consolidate, which affects competition by eliminating some regional and local institutions, while strengthening the franchises of
acquirers. In addition, many financial services entities are experiencing significant challenges as a result of the economic crisis, resulting in bank and thrift failures and significant intervention from the U.S. Government. For additional
information concerning markets, BB&T’s competitive position and business strategies, and recent government interventions see “Market Area”, “General Business Development” and “Regulatory Considerations” below.

Market Area

BB&T’s primary market area for its banking
operations consists of North and South Carolina, Virginia, Maryland, Georgia, eastern Tennessee, West Virginia, Kentucky, Florida, Alabama and Washington, D.C. In addition, BB&T has a smaller banking presence in Texas and Indiana. The Texas
market represents a new market for BB&T to expand its banking operations with entry occurring in connection with the Colonial acquisition. The markets that BB&T operates have a diverse employment base and primarily consists of manufacturing,
general services, agricultural, wholesale/retail trade, technology, government and financial services. BB&T believes its current market area will support growth in assets and deposits in the future. Management strongly believes that
BB&T’s community bank approach to providing client service is a competitive advantage that strengthens the Corporation’s ability to effectively provide financial products and services to businesses and individuals in its markets.



General Business Development

BB&T is a regional financial holding company. BB&T
has maintained a long-term focus on a strategy that includes expanding and diversifying the BB&T franchise in terms of revenues, profitability and asset size. This strategy has encompassed both organic growth and acquisitions of complementary
banks and financial businesses. During the 1990’s and through 2003, BB&T’s growth resulted largely from mergers and acquisitions as the economics of business combinations were compelling. Since that time, BB&T has focused more on
organic growth and strategic acquisitions, including the FDIC-assisted acquisition of Colonial.

Merger and Acquisition Strategy

BB&T’s growth in business, profitability and market share has historically been enhanced by strategic mergers and acquisitions. Management intends to remain disciplined and focused with regard to
future merger and acquisition opportunities. BB&T will continue to assess bank and thrift acquisitions subject to market conditions and suitable candidates, primarily within BB&T’s existing footprint, and will pursue economically
advantageous acquisitions of insurance agencies, specialized lending businesses, and fee income generating financial services businesses. BB&T’s acquisition strategy is focused on three primary objectives:

·

to pursue assisted and unassisted acquisitions of banks and thrifts with compatible cultures that will enhance BB&T’s community banking and
customer delivery system;

·

to acquire companies in niche markets that provide products or services that can be offered through the existing distribution system to BB&T’s
current customer base; and

·

to consider strategic nonbank acquisitions in markets that are economically feasible and provide positive long-term benefits.

BB&T completed acquisitions
of 33 community banks and thrifts, 80 insurance agencies and 32 nonbank financial services providers over the last fifteen years. In the long-term, BB&T expects to continue to take advantage of the consolidation in the financial services
industry and expand and enhance its franchise through mergers and acquisitions. The consideration paid for these acquisitions may be in the form of cash, debt or BB&T common stock. The amount of consideration paid to complete these transactions
may be in excess of the fair value of the underlying net assets acquired, which could have a dilutive effect on BB&T’s earnings. In addition, acquisitions often result in significant front-end charges against earnings. However,
BB&T’s disciplined approach to mergers and acquisitions typically requires that acquisitions be accretive to earnings by year three, driven primarily by revenue enhancements and cost savings that are especially incident to in-market bank
and thrift acquisitions.

Risk Management

In the normal course of business BB&T encounters
inherent risk in its business activities. Risk is managed on a decentralized basis with risk decisions made as closely as possible to where the risk occurs. Centrally risk oversight is managed at the corporate level through oversight, policies and
reporting. The principal types of inherent risk include compliance, credit, liquidity, market, operational, reputation and strategic risks.

Compliance risk

Compliance risk is the risk to earnings, capital, or reputation arising from violations of or noncompliance with current and changing
laws, regulations, supervisory guidance, regulatory expectations, or the rules, standards, or codes of conduct of self regulatory organizations.

Credit risk

Credit risk is the risk to earnings or capital arising from the default, inability, or unwillingness of a borrower, obligor, or
counterparty to meet the terms of any financial obligation with BB&T or otherwise perform as agreed. Credit risk exists in all activities where success depends on the performance of a borrower, obligor, or counterparty. Credit risk arises when
BB&T funds are extended, committed, invested, or otherwise exposed through actual or implied contractual agreements, whether on or off the balance sheet. Credit risk also occurs when the credit quality of an issuer whose securities or other
instruments the bank holds deteriorates. For additional information concerning BB&T’s management of credit risk, see the “Lending Activities” section below.



Liquidity risk

Liquidity risk is the risk to ongoing operations arising
from the inability to accommodate liability maturities, deposit withdrawals, fund asset growth, or meet contractual obligations when they come due. For additional information concerning BB&T’s management of liquidity risk, see the
“Liquidity” section of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” herein.

Market risk

Market risk is the risk to earnings or capital arising from changes in the market value of portfolios, securities, or other financial instruments due to changes in the level, volatility, or correlations
among financial market rates or prices, including interest rates, foreign exchange rates, equity prices, commodity prices, or other relevant rates or prices. For additional information concerning BB&T’s management of market risk, see the
“Market Risk” section of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” herein.

Operational risk

Operational risk is the risk to earnings or capital arising from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems or from external events. This definition includes legal risk, which is the risk
of loss arising from defective transactions, litigation or claims made, or the failure to adequately protect company-owned assets.

Reputation risk

Reputation risk is the risk to earnings, capital, enterprise value, the BB&T brand, and public confidence arising from negative
publicity or public opinion, whether real or perceived, regarding BB&T’s business practices, products and services, transactions, or other activities undertaken by BB&T, its representatives, or its partners. Reputation risk may impact
BB&T’s clients, employees, communities or shareholders, and is often a residual risk that arises when other risks are not managed properly.

Strategic risk

Strategic risk is the risk to earnings, capital, enterprise value, and to the achievement of BB&T’s Vision, Mission, Purpose, and
business objectives that arises from BB&T’s business strategy, adverse business decisions, improper or ineffective implementation of decisions, or lack of responsiveness to changes in the business environment. Strategic risk is a function
of the compatibility of BB&T’s strategic goals, the business strategies developed to achieve those goals, the resources deployed against these goals, and the quality of implementation.

Risk Governance

The management of risk has always been an enterprise-wide
initiative at BB&T. It is part of BB&T’s mission statement that we manage risk to optimize the long-term return to shareholders, while providing a safe and sound investment.

The Chief Risk Officer leads the Risk Management Organization (“RMO”) which designs, organizes and
manages the risk framework. The management of risk begins at the business level through risk identification and management programs. The RMO is responsible for ensuring effective risk management oversight, measurement, monitoring, reporting and
consistency of controls.

Lending Activities

The primary goal of the BB&T lending function is to help
clients achieve their financial goals by providing quality loan products that are fair to the client and profitable to the Corporation. Management believes that this purpose can best be accomplished by building strong, profitable client
relationships over time, with BB&T becoming an important contributor to the prosperity and well-being of its clients. In addition to the importance placed on client knowledge and continuous involvement with clients, BB&T’s lending
process incorporates the standards of a consistent company-wide credit culture and an in-depth local market knowledge. Furthermore, the Corporation employs strict underwriting criteria governing the degree of assumed risk and the diversity of the
loan portfolio in terms of type, industry and geographical concentration. In this context, BB&T strives to meet the credit needs of businesses and consumers in its markets while pursuing a balanced strategy of loan profitability, loan growth and
loan quality.



The following table summarizes BB&T’s loan portfolio based on the regulatory
classification of the portfolio, which focuses on the underlying loan collateral, and differs from internal classifications presented herein that focus on the primary purpose of the loan. Covered loans are included in their respective categories.

Table 2

Composition of Loan and Lease Portfolio

BB&T’s loan portfolio
is approximately 50% commercial and 50% retail by design, and is divided into six major categories—commercial, sales finance, revolving credit, direct retail, mortgage and specialized lending. In addition, BB&T has a portfolio of loans that
were acquired in the Colonial acquisition that are covered by FDIC loss sharing agreements. BB&T lends to a diverse customer base that is substantially located within the Corporation’s primary market area. At the same time, the loan
portfolio is geographically dispersed throughout BB&T’s branch network to mitigate concentration risk arising from local and regional economic downturns.

The following discussion presents the principal types of
lending conducted by BB&T and describes the underwriting procedures and overall risk management of BB&T’s lending function. The relative risk of each loan portfolio is presented in the “Asset Quality” section of
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” herein.

Underwriting Approach

Recognizing that the loan portfolio is a primary source of profitability and risk, proper loan underwriting is critical to BB&T’s
long-term financial success. BB&T’s underwriting approach is designed to define acceptable combinations of specific risk-mitigating features that ensure credit relationships conform to BB&T’s risk philosophy. Provided below is a
summary of the most significant underwriting criteria used to evaluate new loans and loan renewals:

·

Cash flow and debt service coverage

—cash flow adequacy is a necessary condition of creditworthiness, meaning that loans not clearly
supported by a borrower’s cash flow must be justified by secondary repayment sources.

·

Secondary sources of repayment

—alternative repayment funds are a significant risk-mitigating factor as long as they are liquid, can be
easily accessed and provide adequate resources to supplement the primary cash flow source.

·

Value of any underlying collateral

—loans are generally secured by the asset being financed. Because an analysis of the primary and
secondary sources of repayment is the most important factor, collateral, unless it is liquid, does not justify loans that cannot be serviced by the borrower’s normal cash flows.

·

Overall creditworthiness of the customer, taking into account the customer’s relationships, both past and current, with other
lenders

—BB&T’s success depends on building lasting and mutually beneficial relationships with clients, which involves assessing their financial position and background.

·

Level of equity invested in the transaction

—in general, borrowers are required to contribute or invest a portion of their own funds prior
to any loan advances.



Commercial Loan and Lease Portfolio

The commercial loan and lease portfolio represents the
largest category of the Corporation’s total loan portfolio. BB&T’s commercial lending program is generally targeted to serve small-to-middle market businesses with sales of $250 million or less. In addition, BB&T’s Corporate
Banking Group provides lending solutions to large corporate clients. Traditionally, lending to small and mid-sized businesses has been among BB&T’s strongest market segments.

Commercial and small business loans are primarily originated through BB&T’s branch network. In
accordance with the Corporation’s lending policy, each loan undergoes a detailed underwriting process, which incorporates BB&T’s underwriting approach, procedures and evaluations described above. In addition, Branch Bank has adopted an
internal maximum credit exposure lending limit of $245 million for a “best grade” credit, which is considerably below Branch Bank’s maximum legal lending limit. Commercial loans are typically priced with an interest rate tied to
market indices, such as the prime rate and the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”), or a fixed-rate. Commercial loans are individually monitored and reviewed for any possible deterioration in the ability of the client to repay the
loan. Approximately 92% of BB&T’s commercial loans are secured by real estate, business equipment, inventories and other types of collateral. BB&T’s commercial leases consist of investments in various types of leveraged lease
transactions.

Sales Finance Loan Portfolio

The sales finance category primarily
includes secured indirect installment loans to consumers for the purchase of new and used automobiles, boats and recreational vehicles. Such loans are originated through approved franchised and independent dealers throughout the BB&T market
area. These loans are relatively homogenous and no single loan is individually significant in terms of its size and potential risk of loss. Sales finance loans are subject to the same rigorous lending policies and procedures as described above for
commercial loans and are underwritten with note amounts and credit limits that ensure consistency with the Corporation’s risk philosophy. In addition to its normal underwriting due diligence, BB&T uses application systems and “scoring
systems” to help underwrite and manage the credit risk in its sales finance portfolio. Also included in the sales finance category are commercial lines, serviced by the Sales Finance Department, to finance dealer wholesale inventory
(“Floor Plan Lines”) for resale to consumers. Floor Plan Lines are underwritten by commercial loan officers in compliance with the same rigorous lending policies described above for commercial loans. In addition, Floor Plan Lines are
subject to intensive monitoring and oversight to ensure quality and to mitigate risk from fraud.

Revolving Credit Loan Portfolio

The revolving credit portfolio comprises the outstanding balances on credit cards and BB&T’s checking account overdraft protection product, Constant Credit. BB&T markets credit cards to its
existing banking client base and does not solicit cardholders through nationwide programs or other forms of mass marketing. Such balances are generally unsecured and actively managed by BB&T FSB.

Direct Retail Loan Portfolio

The direct retail loan portfolio primarily consists of a
wide variety of loan products offered through BB&T’s branch network. Various types of secured and unsecured loans are marketed to qualifying existing clients and to other creditworthy candidates in BB&T’s market area. The vast
majority of direct retail loans are secured by first or second liens on residential real estate, and include both closed-end home equity loans and revolving home equity lines of credit. Direct retail loans are subject to the same rigorous lending
policies and procedures as described above for commercial loans and are underwritten with note amounts and credit limits that ensure consistency with the Corporation’s risk philosophy.

Mortgage Loan Portfolio

BB&T is a large originator of residential mortgage
loans, with originations in 2010 totaling $24.9 billion. Branch Bank offers various types of fixed- and adjustable-rate loans for the purpose of constructing, purchasing or refinancing residential properties. BB&T primarily originates conforming
mortgage loans and higher quality



jumbo and construction-to-permanent loans for owner-occupied properties. Conforming loans are loans that are underwritten in accordance with the underwriting standards set forth by the Federal
National Mortgage Association (“Fannie Mae”) and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (“Freddie Mac”). They are generally collateralized by one-to-four-family residential real estate, have loan-to-collateral value ratios of
80% or less, and are made to borrowers in good credit standing.

Risks associated with the mortgage lending function include interest rate risk, which is mitigated through the sale of a substantial portion of conforming fixed-rate loans in the secondary mortgage market
and an effective mortgage servicing rights hedging process. Borrower risk is lessened through rigorous underwriting procedures and mortgage insurance. The right to service the loans and receive servicing income is generally retained when conforming
loans are sold. Management believes that the retention of mortgage servicing is a primary relationship driver in retail banking and a vital part of management’s strategy to establish profitable long-term customer relationships and offer high
quality client service. BB&T also purchases residential mortgage loans from correspondent originators. The loans purchased from third-party originators are subject to the same underwriting and risk-management criteria as loans originated
internally.

Specialized Lending Portfolio

BB&T’s specialized lending
portfolio consists of loans originated through six business units that provide specialty finance alternatives to consumers and businesses including: dealer-based financing of equipment for small businesses and consumers, commercial equipment leasing
and finance, direct and indirect consumer finance, insurance premium finance, indirect subprime automobile finance, and full-service commercial mortgage banking. BB&T offers these services to bank clients as well as nonbank clients within and
outside BB&T’s primary geographic market area.

BB&T’s specialized lending subsidiaries adhere to the same overall underwriting approach as the commercial and consumer lending portfolio and also utilize automated credit scoring to assist with
underwriting the credit risk. The majority of these loans are relatively homogenous and no single loan is individually significant in terms of its size and potential risk of loss. The majority of the loans are secured by real estate, automobiles,
equipment or unearned insurance premiums. As of December 31, 2010, included in the specialized lending portfolio are loans to subprime borrowers of approximately $3.1 billion, or 2.9% of the total BB&T loan and lease portfolio. Of these,
approximately $336 million are residential real estate loans and are included in the disclosures in Table 14-2 herein.

Covered Loan Portfolio

In connection with the FDIC-assisted acquisition of Colonial, BB&T acquired approximately $14.1 billion of loans that are covered by
loss sharing agreements. BB&T recorded these loans at $9.6 billion, which represented their fair value on the acquisition date. The loans covered by loss sharing agreements are primarily commercial real estate loans and residential mortgage
loans. Refer to Note 4 “Loans and Leases” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” in this report for additional disclosures related to BB&T’s covered loans.



The following table presents BB&T’s total loan portfolio based upon BB&T’s
lines of business, as discussed herein, rather than upon regulatory reporting classifications:

Table 3

Composition of Loan and Lease Portfolio Based on Lines of
Business

The following table reflects the
scheduled maturities of commercial, financial and agricultural loans, as well as real estate construction loans:

Table 4

Selected Loan Maturities and Interest Sensitivity

(1)

Includes loans due on demand.

(2)

The above table excludes:



Scheduled repayments are
reported in the maturity category in which the payment is due. Determinations of maturities are based upon contract terms. In accordance with regulatory reporting standards, variable rate loans that have reached a floor are reported as fixed-rate
loans. BB&T’s credit policy typically does not permit automatic renewal of loans. At the scheduled maturity date (including balloon payment date), the customer generally must request a new loan to replace the matured loan and execute either
a new note or note modification with rate, terms and conditions negotiated at that time.

Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses and Reserve for Unfunded Lending Commitments

The allowance for loan and lease losses is determined based on management’s best estimate of probable losses inherent in the
portfolio at the balance sheet date. BB&T’s allowance is driven by existing conditions and observations, and reflects losses already incurred, even if not yet identifiable.

The Corporation determines the allowance based on an ongoing evaluation of its loan and lease portfolios. This
evaluation is inherently subjective because it requires material estimates, including the amounts and timing of cash flows expected to be received on impaired loans. Those estimates may be susceptible to significant change. Increases to the
allowance are made by charges to the provision for credit losses, which is reflected in the Consolidated Statements of Income. Loans or leases deemed to be uncollectible are charged against the allowance. Recoveries of previously charged-off amounts
are credited to the allowance.

In addition to the
allowance for loan and lease losses, BB&T also estimates probable losses related to binding unfunded lending commitments. The methodology to determine such losses is inherently similar to the methodology used in calculating the allowance for
commercial loans, adjusted for factors specific to binding commitments, including the probability of funding and exposure at funding. The reserve for unfunded lending commitments is included in accounts payable and other liabilities on the
Consolidated Balance Sheets. Changes to the reserve for unfunded lending commitments are made by charges or credits to the provision for credit losses.

While management uses the best information available to establish the allowance for loan and lease losses, future adjustments to the
allowance or to the reserving methodology may be necessary if economic conditions differ substantially from the assumptions used in making the valuations.

Reserve Policy and Methodology

BB&T has developed a systematic methodology to determine its allowance for loan and lease losses that gives appropriate consideration
to differences in the nature of its lending portfolio. A risk-based approach is used to estimate the allowance related to the commercial lending portfolio, which consists of commercial real estate, commercial and industrial (“C&I”) and
certain specialized lending loans and leases. A delinquency-based approach is used to estimate the allowance related to the retail lending portfolio, which consists of direct retail lending, revolving credit, mortgage, sales finance and certain
retail-oriented specialized lending loans. An expected cash flows approach is used to estimate the allowance related to loans acquired subsequent to December 31, 2008.

A portion of the Corporation’s allowance for loan and
lease losses is not allocated to any specific category of loans. This unallocated portion of the allowance reflects management’s best estimate of the elements of imprecision inherent in the calculation of the overall allowance. Due to the
subjectivity involved in determining the overall allowance, including the unallocated portion, the portion considered unallocated may fluctuate from period to period based on management’s evaluation of the factors affecting the assumptions used
in calculating the allowance, including historical loss experience, current economic conditions, industry or borrower concentrations and the status of merged institutions. The unallocated portion of the allowance is available to absorb losses on any
loan category or lending-related commitment. Management evaluates the adequacy of the allowance for loan and lease losses based on the combined total of the allocated and unallocated components.



Commercial

The vast majority of loans in the commercial lending
portfolio are assigned a “risk grade” at origination by the account officer and the assigned risk grade is subsequently reviewed and finalized by a credit officer. Credit Risk Review, a department that is independent of the loan
administration functions, validates the risk grades of selected relationships through their loan review process. Loans are assigned risk grades based on an assessment of conditions that affect the borrower’s ability to meet contractual
obligations under the loan agreement. This process includes reviewing borrowers’ financial information, historical payment experience, credit documentation, public information, and other information specific to each borrower. Risk grades are
reviewed on an annual basis for all credit relationships with total credit exposure of $1 million or more, or at any point management becomes aware of information affecting the borrower’s ability to fulfill their obligations. For commercial
clients where total credit exposure is less than $1 million, BB&T has developed an automated loan review system to identify and proactively manage accounts with a higher risk of loss. The “score” produced by this automated system is
updated monthly.

BB&T’s internal risk
ratings were correlated with Moody’s bond ratings by mapping the historical default rates by internal risk grade to those implied in the bond ratings. Investment grade includes all loans mapped to a “Baa” or higher rating. Near
investment grade includes all loans mapped to a “Ba” rating. Noninvestment grade includes all loans mapped to a “B” or lower rating. BB&T’s commercial loan portfolio is predominately near- and non-investment grade
because investment grade borrowers can access well developed capital markets alternatives to bank loans, including bonds and commercial paper. In addition, BB&T’s loan mix reflects our community banking focus, which results in a customer
base comprising predominately small and private businesses. Because BB&T lends mostly to smaller businesses, the portfolio is very granular, with minimal individual name concentration. In contrast to most investment grade lending, BB&T is a
secured lender and the vast majority of loans are well collateralized, which typically results in lower losses if a default occurs. Finally, the current mix reflects incomplete recovery from a heavily stressed economic environment.

On a quarterly basis, BB&T reviews all commercial lending
relationships with outstanding debt of $2 million or more that have been classified as substandard or doubtful. While this review is largely focused on the borrower’s ability to repay the loan, BB&T also considers the capacity and
willingness of a loan’s guarantors to support the debt service on the loan as a secondary source of repayment. When a guarantor exhibits the documented capacity and willingness to support the loan, BB&T may consider extending the loan
maturity and/or temporarily deferring principal payments if the ultimate collection of both principal and interest is not in question. In these cases, BB&T may not deem the loan to be impaired due to the documented capacity and willingness of
the guarantor to repay the loan. Loans are considered impaired when the borrower (or guarantor in certain circumstances) does not have the cash flow capacity or willingness to service the debt according to contractual terms, or it does not appear
reasonable to assume that the borrower will continue to pay according to the contractual agreement. BB&T establishes a specific reserve for each loan that has been deemed impaired based on the criteria outlined above. The amount of the reserve
is based on the present value of expected cash flows discounted at the loan’s effective interest rate, and/or the value of collateral. BB&T has also established a review process related to loans that have been deemed impaired based on their
classification as a troubled debt restructuring (“restructuring”) and other impaired loans that are in commercial lending relationships with an outstanding debt of less than $2 million at the balance sheet date. In connection with this
process, BB&T establishes reserves related to these loans that are calculated using an expected cash flow approach.

BB&T also maintains reserves for collective impairment that reflect an estimate of losses related to nonimpaired commercial loans as
of the balance sheet date. Embedded loss estimates for BB&T’s commercial loan portfolio are based on estimated migration rates, which are estimated based on historical experience, and current risk mix as indicated by the risk grading
process described above. Embedded loss estimates may be adjusted to reflect current economic conditions and current portfolio trends including credit quality, concentrations, aging of the portfolio, and significant policy and underwriting changes.

Retail

The majority of the allowance for loan and lease losses
related to the retail lending portfolio is calculated on a collective basis using a delinquency-based approach. Embedded loss estimates for BB&T’s retail lending portfolio are based on estimated migration rates that are developed based on
historical experience, and current risk mix as



indicated by prevailing delinquency rates. These estimates may be adjusted to reflect current economic conditions and portfolio trends. The remaining portion of the allowance related to the
retail lending portfolio relates to loans that have been deemed impaired based on their classification as a restructuring at the balance sheet date. BB&T establishes reserves related to these restructured loans using an expected cash flow
approach.

Acquired Loans

For loans acquired in a business combination after
December 31, 2008, BB&T has generally aggregated the purchased loans into pools of loans with common risk characteristics. In determining the allowance for loan and lease losses, BB&T performs an analysis each period to estimate the
expected cash flows for each of the loan pools. To the extent that the expected cash flows of a loan pool have decreased since the acquisition date, BB&T establishes an allowance for loan loss.

The following table presents an estimated allocation of the
allowance for loan and lease losses at the end of each of the past five years. This allocation of the allowance for loan and lease losses is calculated on an approximate basis and is not necessarily indicative of future losses or allocations. The
entire amount of the allowance is available to absorb losses occurring in any category of loans and leases.

Table 5

Allocation of Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses by Category

Investment Activities

Branch Bank invests in securities as
allowable under bank regulations. These securities may include obligations of the U.S. Treasury, U.S. government agencies, U.S. government-sponsored entities, including mortgage-backed securities, bank eligible obligations of any state or political
subdivision, privately-issued mortgage-backed securities, structured notes, bank eligible corporate obligations, including corporate debentures, commercial paper, negotiable certificates of deposit, bankers acceptances, mutual funds and limited
types of equity securities. Branch Bank also may deal in securities subject to the provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. Scott & Stringfellow, LLC, BB&T’s full-service brokerage and investment banking subsidiary, engages in the
underwriting, trading and sales of equity and debt securities subject to the risk management policies of the Corporation.

BB&T’s investment activities are governed internally by a written, board-approved policy. The investment policy is carried out by
the Corporation’s Market Risk and Liquidity Committee (“MRLC”), which meets



regularly to review the economic environment and establish investment strategies. The MRLC also has much broader responsibilities, which are discussed in the “Market Risk Management”
section in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” herein.

Investment strategies are reviewed by the MRLC based on the interest rate environment, balance sheet mix, actual and anticipated loan
demand, funding opportunities and the overall interest rate sensitivity of the Corporation. In general, the investment portfolio is managed in a manner appropriate to the attainment of the following goals: (i) to provide a sufficient margin of
liquid assets to meet unanticipated deposit and loan fluctuations and overall funds management objectives; (ii) to provide eligible securities to secure public funds, trust deposits as prescribed by law and other borrowings; and (iii) to
earn the maximum return on funds invested that is commensurate with meeting the requirements of (i) and (ii).

Funding Activities

Deposits are the primary source of funds for lending and investing activities, and their cost is the largest category of interest expense. Scheduled payments, as well as prepayments, and maturities from
portfolios of loans and investment securities also provide a stable source of funds. Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) advances, other secured borrowings, Federal funds purchased and other short-term borrowed funds, as well as longer-term
debt issued through the capital markets, all provide supplemental liquidity sources. BB&T’s funding activities are monitored and governed through BB&T’s overall asset/liability management process, which is further discussed in the
“Market Risk Management” section in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” herein. BB&T conducts its funding activities in compliance with all applicable laws and
regulations. Following is a brief description of the various sources of funds used by BB&T. For further discussion relating to outstanding balances and balance fluctuations, refer to the “Deposits and Other Borrowings” section in
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” herein.

Deposits

Deposits are attracted principally from clients within BB&T’s branch network through the offering of a broad selection of deposit
instruments to individuals and businesses, including noninterest-bearing checking accounts, interest-bearing checking accounts, savings accounts, money market deposit accounts, certificates of deposit and individual retirement accounts. Deposit
account terms vary with respect to the minimum balance required, the time period the funds must remain on deposit and service charge schedules. Interest rates paid on specific deposit types are determined based on (i) the interest rates offered
by competitors, (ii) the anticipated amount and timing of funding needs, (iii) the availability and cost of alternative sources of funding, and (iv) the anticipated future economic conditions and interest rates. Client deposits are
attractive sources of funding because of their stability and relative cost. Deposits are regarded as an important part of the overall client relationship and provide opportunities to cross-sell other BB&T services. In addition, BB&T gathers
a portion of its deposit base through wholesale funding products, which include negotiable certificates of deposit and Eurodollar deposits through the use of a Cayman branch facility. These sources of deposits represented approximately 7% of
BB&T’s total deposits at both December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009.

The following table provides information regarding the scheduled maturities of time deposits that are $100,000 and greater at December 31, 2010:

Table 6

Scheduled Maturities of Time Deposits $100,000 and Greater

December 31, 2010

(Dollars in millions)



Borrowed Funds

BB&T’s ability to borrow funds from nondeposit
sources provides additional flexibility in meeting the liquidity needs of the Company. Short-term borrowings include Federal funds purchased, securities sold under repurchase agreements, master notes, short-term FHLB advances, U.S. Treasury tax and
loan depository note accounts and other short-term borrowings. See Note 9 “Federal Funds Purchased, Securities Sold Under Agreements to Repurchase, and Short-Term Borrowed Funds” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements” herein for additional disclosures related to these types of borrowings.

BB&T also utilizes longer-term borrowings when management determines that the pricing and maturity options available through these sources create cost-effective options for funding asset growth and
satisfying capital needs. BB&T’s long-term borrowings include long-term FHLB advances to Branch Bank, senior and subordinated debt issued by BB&T Corporation and Branch Bank, junior subordinated debt underlying trust preferred
securities and capital leases. See Note 11 “Long-Term Debt” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” herein for additional disclosures related to long-term borrowings.

Employees

At December 31, 2010, BB&T had approximately 31,400 full-time equivalent employees compared to
approximately 32,400 full-time equivalent employees at December 31, 2009.

