10-K


g87671e10vk.htm

REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC. 12/31/2003

Republic Services, Inc. 12/31/2003


SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

[X]

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF

THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31,

OR

[  ]

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF

THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from

to

Commission file number: 1-14267

REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

(Exact name of Registrant as Specified in its
Charter)

Delaware

65-0716904

(State of Incorporation)

(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

Republic Services, Inc.

110 S.E. 6th Street, 28th Floor

Fort Lauderdale, Florida

(Address of Principal Executive
    Offices)


(Zip Code)

Registrant’s telephone number, including
area code:

(954) 769-2400

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of Each Class

Name of Each Exchange on which Registered

Common Stock, par value $.01 per
    share

The New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(g) of the Act:

None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant:
(1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
that the registrant was required to file such reports), and
(2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the
past
90 days. Yes

x

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of
delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this
Form 10-K.

x

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is
an accelerated filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Act). Yes

x

No

o

As of June 30, 2003, the aggregate market
value of the shares of the Common Stock held by non-affiliates
of the registrant was approximately $3,642,358,046.

As of March 5, 2004, the registrant had
outstanding 155,847,232 shares of Common Stock.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Part III Portions of the Registrant’s
Proxy Statement relative to the 2004 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders. Part IV Portions of previously filed reports
and registration statements.

INDEX

TO FORM 10-K


PART I

ITEM  1.

BUSINESS

Company Overview

We are a leading provider of services in the
domestic non-hazardous solid waste industry. We provide
non-hazardous solid waste collection services for commercial,
industrial, municipal and residential customers through
142 collection companies in 22 states. We also own or
operate 93 transfer stations, 58 solid waste landfills
and 35 recycling facilities.

As of December 31, 2003, our operations were
organized into five regions whose boundaries may change from
time to time: Eastern, Central, Southern, Southwestern and
Western. Each region is organized into several operating areas
and each area contains a group of operating locations. Each of
our regions and substantially all our areas provide collection,
transfer, recycling and disposal services. We believe that this
organizational structure facilitates the integration of our
operations within each region, which is a critical component of
our operating strategy. See Note 10 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of
operating segments.

We had revenue of $2,517.8 million and
$2,365.1 million and operating income of
$412.7 million and $459.5 million for the years ended
December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The
$152.7 million, or 6.5%, increase in revenue from 2002 to
2003 is primarily attributable to the successful execution of
our operating and growth strategies described below. The
$46.8 million, or 10.2%, decrease in operating income from
2002 to 2003 is primarily attributable to additional
self-insurance expense.

Our presence in high growth markets throughout
the Sunbelt, including California, Florida, Georgia, Nevada,
North Carolina, South Carolina and Texas, and in other domestic
markets that have experienced higher than average population
growth during the past several years, supports our internal
growth strategy. We believe that our presence in these markets
positions our company to experience growth at rates that are
generally higher than the industry’s overall growth rate.

While we believe that we are well positioned to
continue to increase our revenue and operating income in the
longer term, the economic slowdown has had a negative impact on
certain aspects of our business. However, the aspects of our
business that we believe are “recession resilient”
have continued to perform well. These include our residential
and commercial collection operations which are flat-rate
businesses and are not subject to the volatility we experience
in our industrial collection and disposal businesses. We
continue to focus on enhancing stockholder value by implementing
our financial, operating and growth strategies as described
below.

Industry Overview

Based on analysts’ reports and industry
trade publications, we believe that the United States
non-hazardous solid waste services industry generates annual
revenue of approximately $43.0 billion, of which
approximately 59% is generated by publicly-owned waste
companies, 28% is generated by privately-held waste companies,
and 13% is generated by municipal and other local governmental
authorities. Three companies generate the substantial majority
of the publicly-owned companies’ total revenue. However,
according to industry data, the domestic non-hazardous waste
industry remains highly fragmented as privately-held companies
and municipal and other local governmental authorities generate
approximately 41% of total industry revenue. In general, growth
in the solid waste industry is linked to growth in the overall
economy, including the level of new household and business
formation.

The solid waste industry has experienced a period
of rapid consolidation. During this time we were able to grow
significantly through acquisitions. However, acquisitions in the
industry have slowed considerably since



late 1999. Despite this, we believe that the
opportunity to grow through acquisitions still exists, albeit at
a slower pace than experienced in previous years, as a result of
the following factors:

Subtitle D
    Regulation.

Subtitle D of the
    Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, as currently in
    effect, and similar state regulations have significantly
    increased the amount of capital, technical expertise, operating
    costs and financial assurance obligations required to own and
    operate a landfill and other solid waste facilities. Many of the
    smaller participants in our industry have found these costs
    difficult, if not impossible, to bear. Large publicly-owned
    companies, like our company, have greater access to, and a lower
    cost of, the capital necessary to finance such increased capital
    expenditures and costs relative to many of the privately-owned
    companies in the industry. Additionally, the required permits
    for landfill development, expansion or construction have become
    more difficult, time-consuming and costly to acquire.
    Consequently, many smaller, independent operators have decided
    to either close their operations or sell them to larger
    operators that have greater access to capital.

Integration of Solid Waste
    Businesses.

By being able to control
    the waste stream in a market through the collection, transfer
    and disposal process, integrated solid waste companies gain a
    further competitive advantage over non-integrated operators. The
    ability of the integrated companies to both collect and dispose
    of solid waste, coupled with access to significant capital
    resources necessary for acquisitions, has created an environment
    in which large publicly-owned, integrated companies can operate
    more cost effectively and competitively than non-integrated
    operators.

Municipal
    Privatization.

The trend toward
    consolidation in the solid waste services industry is further
    supported by the increasing tendency of a number of
    municipalities to privatize their waste disposal operations.
    Privatization of municipal waste operations is often an
    attractive alternative to funding the changes required by
    Subtitle D.

These developments, as well as the fact that
there are a limited number of viable exit strategies for many of
the owners and principals of numerous privately-held companies
in the industry, have contributed to the overall consolidation
trend in the solid waste industry.

Financial Strategy

A key component of our financial strategy is our
ability to generate free cash flow. Our definition of free cash
flow, which is not a measure determined in accordance with
generally accepted accounting standards, is cash provided by
operating activities less purchases of property and equipment
plus proceeds from the sale of property and equipment as
presented in our consolidated statement of cash flows. We
believe that free cash flow provides useful information
regarding the recurring cash provided by our operating
activities after expenditures for property and equipment. It
also demonstrates our ability to execute our financial strategy.
Consequently, we have developed incentive programs and we
conduct monthly field operating reviews that help focus our
entire company on the importance of increasing free cash flow.

Free cash flow does not represent our cash flow
available for discretionary expenditures because it excludes
certain expenditures that are required or that we have committed
to such as debt service requirements and dividend payments. Our
definition of free cash flow may not be comparable to similarly
titled measures presented by other companies.

We manage our free cash flow primarily by
ensuring that capital expenditures and operating asset levels
are appropriate in light of our existing business and growth
opportunities and by closely managing our working capital which
consists primarily of accounts receivable and accounts payable.

We have used and will continue to use our cash
flow to maximize stockholder value as well as our return on
investment. This includes the following:

•

Customer
    Service.

We will continue to
    reinvest in our existing fleet of vehicles, equipment, landfills
    and facilities to ensure a high level of service to our
    customers.

•

Internal
    Growth.

Growth through increases
    in our customer base and services provided is the most capital
    efficient means for us to build our business. This includes not
    only expanding landfill and



Another key component of our financial strategy
includes maintaining an investment grade rating on our senior
debt. This has allowed us to secure favorable, long-term,
fixed-rate financing that reduces our exposure to changing
interest rates. This has also allowed us, and will continue to
allow us, to readily access capital markets.

For certain risks related to our financial
strategy, see “Risk Factors.”

Operating Strategy

We seek to leverage existing assets and revenue
growth to increase operating margins and enhance stockholder
value. Our operating strategy to accomplish this goal is to:

For certain risks related to our operating
strategy, see “Risk Factors.”

•

Experienced Executive Management
    Team.

We believe that we have one
    of the most experienced executive management teams in the solid
    waste industry.

James E. O’Connor, who has served as our
    Chief Executive Officer since December 1998, also became our
    Chairman in January 2003. He also worked at Waste Management,
    Inc. from 1972 to 1978 and from 1982 to 1998. During that time,
    he served in various management positions, including Senior Vice
    President in 1997 and 1998, and Area President of Waste
    Management of Florida, Inc. from 1992 to 1997.
    Mr. O’Connor has over 29 years of experience in
    the solid waste industry.

Michael J. Cordesman, who has served as our Chief
    Operating Officer since March 2002 and also as our President
    since February 2003, has over 23 years of experience in the
    solid waste industry. He joined



us in June 2001 as our Eastern Region Vice
    President. From 1999 to 2001, Mr. Cordesman served as Vice
    President of the Central Region for Superior Services Inc. From
    1980 to 1999, he served in various positions with Waste
    Management, including Vice President of the Mid-Atlantic Region
    from 1992 to 1999.

The other corporate officers with responsibility
    for our operations have an average of over 20 years of
    management experience in the solid waste industry. Our five
    regional vice presidents and our 24 area presidents have an
    average of 23 years of experience in the industry.

In addition, Harris W. Hudson, who has served as
    our Vice Chairman since our initial public offering, has over
    39 years of experience in the solid waste industry,
    including 11 years with Waste Management and 19 years
    with private waste collection companies.

•

Decentralized Management
    Structure.

We maintain a
    relatively small corporate headquarters staff, relying on a
    decentralized management structure to minimize administrative
    overhead costs and to manage our day-to-day operations more
    efficiently. Our local management has extensive industry
    experience in growing, operating and managing solid waste
    companies and has substantial experience in their local
    geographic markets. In early 2001, we added a sales, maintenance
    and operations manager to each of our regional management teams,
    which previously consisted of a regional vice president and a
    regional controller. We believe that strengthening our regional
    management teams allows us to more effectively and efficiently
    drive our company’s initiatives and helps ensure
    consistency throughout our organization. Our regional management
    teams and our area presidents have extensive authority,
    responsibility and autonomy for operations within their
    respective geographic markets. Compensation for regional and
    area management teams is primarily based on the improvement in
    operating income produced and the free cash flow and return on
    invested capital generated in each manager’s geographic
    area of responsibility. In addition, through long-term incentive
    programs, including stock options, we believe we have one of the
    lowest turnover levels in the industry for our local management
    teams. As a result of retaining experienced managers with
    extensive knowledge of and involvement in their local
    communities, we are proactive in anticipating our
    customers’ needs and adjusting to changes in our markets.
    We also seek to implement the best practices of our various
    regions and areas throughout our operations to improve operating
    margins.

•

Integrated
    Operations.

We seek to achieve a
    high rate of internalization by controlling waste streams from
    the point of collection through disposal. We expect that our
    fully integrated markets generally will have a lower cost of
    operations and more favorable cash flows than our non-integrated
    markets. Through acquisitions and other market development
    activities, we create market-specific, integrated operations
    typically consisting of one or more collection companies,
    transfer stations and landfills. We consider acquiring companies
    that own or operate landfills with significant permitted
    disposal capacity and appropriate levels of waste volume. We
    also seek to acquire solid waste collection companies in markets
    in which we own or operate landfills. In addition, we generate
    internal growth in our disposal operations by developing new
    landfills and expanding our existing landfills from time to time
    in markets in which we have significant collection operations or
    in markets that we determine lack sufficient disposal capacity.
    During the three months ended December 31, 2003,
    approximately 54% of the total volume of waste that we collected
    was disposed of at landfills we own or operate. In a number of
    our larger markets, we and our competitors are required to take
    waste to government-controlled disposal facilities. This
    provides us with an opportunity to effectively compete in these
    markets without investing in landfill capacity. Because we do
    not have landfill facilities or government-controlled disposal
    facilities for all markets in which we provide collection
    services, we believe that through landfill and transfer station
    acquisitions and development we have the opportunity to increase
    our waste internalization rate and further integrate our
    operations. By further integrating operations in existing
    markets through acquisitions and development of landfills and
    transfer stations, we may be able to reduce our disposal costs.

•

Economies of Scale, Cost Efficiencies and
    Asset Utilization.

To improve
    operating margins, our management focuses on achieving economies
    of scale and cost efficiencies. The consolidation of



acquired businesses into existing operations
    reduces costs by decreasing capital and expenses used for
    routing, personnel, equipment and vehicle maintenance,
    inventories and back-office administration. Generally, we
    consolidate our acquired administrative centers to reduce our
    general and administrative costs. Our goal is to maintain our
    selling, general and administrative costs in the range of 10% of
    revenue which we feel is appropriate given our existing business
    platform. In addition, our size allows our company to negotiate
    volume discounts for certain purchases, including waste disposal
    rates at landfills operated by third parties. Furthermore, we
    have taken steps to increase utilization of our assets. For
    example, to reduce the number of collection vehicles and
    maximize the efficiency of our fleet, we have instituted a grid
    productivity program which allows us to benchmark the
    performance of all of our drivers. In our larger markets, we
    also use a route optimization program to minimize drive times
    and improve operating density. By using assets more efficiently,
    operating expenses can be significantly reduced.

•

High Levels of Customer
    Satisfaction.

Our goal of
    maintaining high levels of customer satisfaction complements our
    operating strategy. Our personalized sales process is oriented
    towards maintaining relationships and ensuring that service is
    being properly provided.

•

Utilize Systems to Improve Consistency in
    Financial and Operational
    Reporting.

We continue to focus on
    systems and training initiatives that complement our operating
    strategy. These initiatives include contact management, billing,
    productivity, maintenance and general ledger systems. These
    systems provide us with detailed information, prepared in a
    consistent manner, that will allow us to quickly analyze and act
    upon trends in our business.

For certain risks related to our operating
strategy, see “Risk Factors”.

Growth Strategy

Our growth strategy focuses on increasing
revenue, gaining market share and enhancing stockholder value
through internal growth and acquisitions. It also focuses on
securing price increases necessary to offset increased costs.
During the fourth quarter of 2003, we implemented a broad-based
pricing initiative across all lines of our business. For certain
risks related to our growth strategy, see “Risk
Factors.”

•

Internal
    Growth.

Our internal growth
    strategy focuses on retaining existing customers and obtaining
    commercial, municipal and industrial customers through our
    well-managed sales and marketing activities.

Long-Term Contracts.

We seek to obtain long-term contracts for collecting solid waste
    in high-growth markets. These include exclusive franchise
    agreements with municipalities as well as commercial and
    industrial contracts. By obtaining such long-term agreements, we
    have the opportunity to grow our contracted revenue base at the
    same rate as the underlying population growth in these markets.
    For example, we have secured exclusive, long-term franchise
    agreements in high-growth markets such as Los Angeles, Orange
    and Contra Costa Counties in California, Las Vegas, Nevada,
    Arlington, Texas and many areas of Florida. We believe that this
    positions our company to experience internal growth rates that
    are generally higher than our industry’s overall growth
    rate. In addition, we believe that by securing a base of
    long-term recurring revenue in growth markets, we are better
    able to protect our market position from competition and our
    business may be less susceptible to downturns in economic
    conditions.

Sales and Marketing
    Activities.

We seek to manage our
    sales and marketing activities to enable our company to
    capitalize on our leading positions in many of the markets in
    which we operate. We currently have approximately 500 sales and
    marketing employees in the field, who are compensated using a
    commission structure that is focused on generating high levels
    of quality revenue. For the most part, these employees directly
    solicit business from existing and prospective commercial,
    industrial, municipal and residential customers. We emphasize
    our rate and cost structures when we train new and existing
    sales personnel. In addition, we utilize a contact management
    system that assists our sales people in tracking leads. It also
    tracks renewal periods for potential commercial, industrial and
    franchise contracts.



•

Acquisition
    Growth.

During the late
    1990’s, the solid waste industry experienced a period of
    rapid consolidation. We were able to grow significantly through
    acquisitions during this period. However, the rate of
    consolidation in the industry has slowed considerably. Despite
    this, we continue to look to acquire businesses that complement
    our existing business platform. Our acquisition growth strategy
    focuses on privately-held solid waste companies and municipal
    and other local governmental authorities. We believe that our
    ability to acquire privately-held companies is enhanced by
    increasing competition in the solid waste industry, increasing
    capital requirements as a result of changes in solid waste
    regulatory requirements, and the limited number of exit
    strategies for these privately-held companies’ owners and
    principals. We also seek to acquire operations and facilities
    from municipalities that are privatizing, which occur for many
    of the same reasons that privately-held companies sell their
    solid waste businesses. In addition, we will continue to
    evaluate opportunities to acquire operations and facilities that
    may be divested by other publicly-owned waste companies. In sum,
    our acquisition growth strategy focuses on:

•

acquiring businesses that position our company
    for growth in existing and new markets,

•

acquiring well-managed companies and, when
    appropriate, retaining local management,

•

acquiring operations and facilities from
    municipalities that are privatizing and publicly-owned companies
    that are divesting of assets.

For certain risks involved with our acquisition
    growth strategy, see “Risk Factors — We may be
    unable to execute our acquisition growth strategy,”
    “— We may be unable to manage our growth
    effectively,” and “— Businesses we acquire
    may have undisclosed liabilities.”

Acquire Businesses Positioning the Company for
    Growth.

In making acquisitions, we
    principally target high quality businesses that will allow our
    company to be, or provide our company favorable prospects of
    becoming, a leading provider of integrated solid waste services
    in markets with favorable demographic growth. Generally, we have
    acquired, and will continue to seek to acquire, solid waste
    collection, transfer and disposal companies that:

Once we have a base of operations in a particular
    market, we focus on acquiring trucks and routes of smaller
    businesses that also operate in that market and surrounding
    markets, which are typically referred to as “tuck-in”
    acquisitions. We seek to consolidate the operations of such
    tuck-in businesses into our existing operations in that market.
    We also seek to acquire landfills, transfer stations and
    collection companies that operate in markets that we are already
    servicing in order to fully integrate our operations from
    collection to disposal. In addition, we have in the past and may
    continue in the future to exchange businesses with other solid
    waste companies if by doing so there is a net benefit to our
    business platform. These activities allow us to increase our
    revenue and market share, lower our cost of operations as a
    percentage of revenue, and consolidate duplicative facilities
    and functions to maximize cost efficiencies and economies of
    scale.

Acquire Well-Managed
    Companies.

We also seek to acquire
    businesses that have experienced management teams that are
    willing to join the management of our company. We generally seek
    to maintain continuity in management of larger acquired
    companies in order to capitalize on their local market
    knowledge, community relations and name recognition, and to
    instill their entrepreneurial drive at all levels of our
    operations. By furnishing the local management of such acquired
    companies with our financial and marketing resources and
    technical expertise, we believe that the acquired companies are
    better able to secure additional municipal franchises and other
    contracts.



Privatize Municipal Operations and Acquire
    Divested Operations.

We also seek to
    acquire solid waste collection operations, transfer stations and
    landfills that municipalities and other governmental authorities
    are privatizing. Many municipalities are seeking to outsource or
    sell these types of solid waste operations, as they lack the
    capital, technical expertise and/or operational resources
    necessary to comply with increasingly stringent regulatory
    standards and/or to compete effectively with private-sector
    companies. In addition, we have acquired, and will continue to
    seek to acquire, operations and facilities that may be divested
    by other publicly-owned waste companies.

Operations

Our operations primarily consist of the
collection and disposal of non-hazardous solid waste.

Collection Services.

We provide solid waste collection services to commercial,
industrial, municipal and residential customers in
22 states through 142 collection companies. In 2003, 75% of
our revenue was derived from collection services consisting of
approximately 32% from services provided to municipal and
residential customers, 38% from services provided to commercial
customers and 30% from services provided to industrial and other
customers.

Our residential collection operations involve the
curbside collection of refuse from small containers into
collection vehicles for transport to transfer stations or
directly to landfills. Residential solid waste collection
services are typically performed under contracts with
municipalities, which we generally secure by competitive bid and
which give our company exclusive rights to service all or a
portion of the homes in their respective jurisdictions. These
contracts or franchises usually range in duration from one to
five years, although some of our exclusive franchises are for
significantly longer periods. Residential solid waste collection
services may also be performed on a subscription basis, in which
individual households contract directly with our company. The
fees received for subscription residential collection are based
primarily on market factors, frequency and type of service, the
distance to the disposal facility and cost of disposal. In
general, subscription residential collection fees are paid
quarterly in advance by the residential customers receiving the
service.

In our commercial and industrial collection
operations, we supply our customers with waste containers of
varying sizes. We also rent compactors to large waste
generators. Commercial collection services are generally
performed under one- to three-year service agreements, and fees
are determined by such considerations as:

We rent waste containers to construction sites
and also provide waste collection services to industrial and
construction facilities on a contractual basis with terms
generally ranging from a single pickup to one year or longer. We
collect the containers or compacted waste and transport the
waste either to a landfill or a transfer station for disposal.

We own or operate 93 transfer stations. We
deposit waste at these stations, as do other private haulers and
municipal haulers, for compaction and transfer to trailers for
transport to disposal sites or recycling facilities.

Also, we currently provide recycling services in
certain markets primarily to comply with local laws or
obligations under our franchise agreements. These services
include the curbside collection of residential recyclable waste
and the provision of a variety of recycling services to
commercial and industrial customers.

Disposal Services.

As of December 31, 2003, we owned or operated 58 landfills,
which had approximately 8,607 permitted acres and total
available permitted and probable expansion disposal capacity of
approximately 1.8 billion in-place cubic yards. The
in-place capacity of our landfills is subject to change based



on engineering factors, requirements of
regulatory authorities and the ability to expand our sites
successfully. Some of our landfills accept non-hazardous special
waste, including utility ash, asbestos and contaminated soils.
See “— Properties.”

Most of our existing landfill sites have the
potential for expanded disposal capacity beyond the currently
permitted acreage. We monitor the availability of permitted
disposal capacity at each of our landfills and evaluate whether
to pursue expansion at a given landfill based on estimated
future waste volumes and prices, market needs, remaining
capacity and likelihood of obtaining an expansion. To satisfy
future disposal demand, we are currently seeking to expand
permitted capacity at certain of our landfills, although no
assurances can be made that all future expansions will be
permitted as designed.

Other Services.

We
have 35 materials recovery facilities and other recycling
operations, which are generally required to fulfill our
obligations under long-term municipal contracts for residential
collection services. These facilities primarily sort recyclable
paper, aluminum, glass and other materials. Most of these
recyclable materials are internally collected by our residential
collection operations. In some areas, we receive commercial and
industrial solid waste that is sorted at our facilities into
recyclable materials and non-recyclable waste. The recyclable
materials are salvaged, repackaged and sold to third parties and
the non-recyclable waste is disposed of at landfills or
incinerators. Wherever possible, our strategy is to reduce our
exposure to fluctuations in recyclable commodity prices by
utilizing third party facilities, thereby minimizing our
recycling investment.

We provide remediation and other heavy
construction services primarily through our subsidiary located
in Missouri. During 2002, our subsidiary was awarded a contract
to assist on the Riverside Levy Project in Missouri. Revenue
from this project, which is scheduled to be completed in 2004,
is expected to be approximately $50.0 million of which
approximately $41.0 million has already been recorded.

We also have a Texas-based compost, mulch and
soil business at which yard, mill and other waste is processed,
packaged and sold as various products.

Sales and Marketing

We seek to provide quality services that will
enable our company to maintain high levels of customer
satisfaction. We derive our business from a broad customer base
which we believe will enable our company to experience stable
growth. We focus our marketing efforts on continuing and
expanding business with existing customers, as well as
attracting new customers.

We employ approximately 500 sales and marketing
employees. Our sales and marketing strategy is to provide
high-quality, comprehensive solid waste collection, recycling,
transfer and disposal services to our customers at competitive
prices. We target potential customers of all sizes, from small
quantity generators to large “Fortune 500” companies
and municipalities.

Most of our marketing activity is local in
nature. However, in 2000 we initiated a national accounts
program in response to our customers’ needs.

We generally do not change the tradenames of the
local businesses we acquire, and therefore we do not operate
nationally under any one mark or tradename. Rather, we rely on
the goodwill associated with the acquired companies’ local
tradenames as used in each geographic market in which we operate.

Customers

We provide services to commercial, industrial,
municipal and residential customers. No one customer has
individually accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated
revenue or of our reportable segment revenue in any of the last
three years.



Competition

We operate in a highly competitive industry.
Entry into our business and the ability to operate profitably in
the industry requires substantial amounts of capital and
managerial experience.

Competition in the non-hazardous solid waste
industry comes from a few large, national publicly-owned
companies, including Waste Management and Allied Waste
Industries, several regional publicly- and privately-owned solid
waste companies, and thousands of small privately-owned
companies. Some of our competitors have significantly larger
operations, and may have significantly greater financial
resources, than we do. In addition to national and regional
firms and numerous local companies, we compete with
municipalities that maintain waste collection or disposal
operations. These municipalities may have financial advantages
due to the availability of tax revenues and tax-exempt financing.

We compete for collection accounts primarily on
the basis of price and the quality of our services. From time to
time, our competitors may reduce the price of their services in
an effort to expand market share or to win a competitively bid
municipal contract. This may have an impact on our future
revenue and profitability.

In each market in which we own or operate a
landfill, we compete for landfill business on the basis of
disposal costs, geographical location and quality of operations.
Our ability to obtain landfill business may be limited by the
fact that some major collection companies also own or operate
landfills to which they send their waste. There also has been an
increasing trend at the state and local levels to mandate waste
reduction at the source and to prohibit the disposal of certain
types of wastes, such as yard wastes, at landfills. This may
result in the volume of waste going to landfills being reduced
in certain areas, which may affect our ability to operate our
landfills at their full capacity and/or affect the prices that
we can charge for landfill disposal services. In addition, most
of the states in which we operate landfills have adopted plans
or requirements that set goals for specified percentages of
certain solid waste items to be recycled.

Regulation

Our facilities and operations are subject to a
variety of federal, state and local requirements that regulate
the environment, public health, safety, zoning and land use.
Operating and other permits, licenses and other approvals are
generally required for landfills and transfer stations, certain
solid waste collection vehicles, fuel storage tanks and other
facilities that we own or operate, and these permits are subject
to revocation, modification and renewal in certain
circumstances. Federal, state and local laws and regulations
vary, but generally govern wastewater or stormwater discharges,
air emissions, the handling, transportation, treatment, storage
and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes, and the
remediation of contamination associated with the release or
threatened release of hazardous substances. These laws and
regulations provide governmental authorities with strict powers
of enforcement, which include the ability to obtain injunctions
and/or impose fines or penalties in the case of violations,
including criminal penalties. The U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency and various other federal, state and local
environmental, public and occupational health and safety
agencies and authorities administer these regulations, including
the Occupational Safety and Health Administration of the
U.S. Department of Labor.

We strive to conduct our operations in compliance
with applicable laws and regulations. However, in the existing
climate of heightened environmental concerns, from time to time,
we have been issued citations or notices from governmental
authorities that have resulted in the need to expend funds for
remedial work and related activities at various landfills and
other facilities. There is no assurance that citations and
notices will not be issued in the future despite our regulatory
compliance efforts. We have established a reserve that we
believe, based on currently available information, will be
adequate to cover any potential regulatory costs. However, we
cannot assure you that actual costs will not exceed our reserve.

Federal Regulation.

The following summarizes the primary environmental, public and
occupational health and safety-related statutes of the United
States that affect our facilities and operations:

(1)

The Solid Waste Disposal Act, as
    amended, including the Resource Conservation and Recovery
    Act.

RCRA and its implementing regulations establish a
    framework for regulating the handling,





sampling and monitoring, and under certain
    circumstances, reduce the quantity of pollutants in those
    discharges. Storm water discharge regulations under this Act
    require a permit for certain construction activities and
    discharges from industrial operations and facilities, which may
    affect our operations. If a landfill or transfer station
    discharges wastewater through a sewage system to a
    publicly-owned treatment works, the facility must comply with
    discharge limits imposed by that treatment works. In addition,
    states may adopt groundwater protection programs under this Act
    or the Safe Drinking Water Act that could affect solid waste
    landfills. Furthermore, development which alters or affects
    wetlands must generally be permitted prior to such development
    commencing, and certain mitigation requirements may be required
    by the permitting agencies.

(4)

The Clean Air Act, as amended.

The Clean Air Act imposes limitations on emissions from various
    sources, including landfills. In March 1996, the U.S. EPA
    promulgated regulations that require large municipal solid waste
    landfills to install landfill gas monitoring systems. These
    regulations apply to landfills that commenced construction,
    reconstruction or modification on or after May 30, 1991,
    and, principally, to landfills that can accommodate
    2.5 million cubic meters or more of municipal solid waste.
    The regulations apply whether the landfill is active or closed.
    The date by which each affected landfill is required to have a
    gas collection and control system installed and made operational
    varies depending upon calculated emission rates at the landfill.
    Many state regulatory agencies also currently require monitoring
    systems for the collection and control of certain landfill gas.
    We do not expect that compliance with any new state regulations
    will have a material effect on us.

(5)

The Occupational Safety and Health
    Act of 1970, as amended.

This Act authorizes the
    Occupational Safety and Health Administration of the
    U.S. Department of Labor to promulgate occupational safety
    and health standards. A number of these standards, including
    standards for notices of hazardous chemicals and the handling of
    asbestos, apply to our facilities and operations.

State Regulation.

Each state in which we operate has its own laws and regulations
governing solid waste disposal, water and air pollution, and, in
most cases, releases and cleanup of hazardous substances and
liability for such matters. States also have adopted regulations
governing the design, operation, maintenance and closure of
landfills and transfer stations. Our facilities and operations
are likely to be subject to these types of requirements. In
addition, our solid waste collection and landfill operations may
be affected by the trend in many states toward requiring the
development of solid waste reduction and recycling programs. For
example, several states have enacted laws that require counties
or municipalities to adopt comprehensive plans to reduce,
through solid waste planning, composting, recycling or other
programs, the volume of solid waste deposited in landfills.
Additionally, laws and regulations restricting the disposal of
certain wastes in solid waste landfills, including yard waste,
newspapers, beverage containers, unshredded tires, lead-acid
batteries and household appliances, have been promulgated in
several states and are being considered in others. Legislative
and regulatory measures to mandate or encourage waste reduction
at the source and waste recycling also are or have been under
consideration by the U.S. Congress and the U.S. EPA,
respectively.

In order to construct, expand and operate a
landfill, one or more construction or operating permits, as well
as zoning and land use approvals, must be obtained. These are
difficult and time-consuming to obtain, are often opposed by
neighboring landowners and citizens’ groups, may be subject
to periodic renewal and are subject to modification and
revocation by the issuing agency. In connection with our
acquisition of existing landfills, it may be and on occasion has
been necessary for our company to expend considerable time,
effort and money to bring the acquired facilities into
compliance with applicable requirements and to obtain the
permits and approvals necessary to increase their capacity.

Many of our facilities own and operate
underground storage tanks which are generally used to store
petroleum-based products. These tanks are generally subject to
federal, state and local laws and regulations that mandate their
periodic testing, upgrading, closure and removal, and that, in
the event of leaks, require that polluted groundwater and soils
be remediated. We believe that all of our underground storage
tanks currently meet, in all material respects, all applicable
regulations. If underground storage tanks we own or operate
leak, and the leakage migrates onto the property of others, we
could be liable for response costs and



other damages to third parties. We are unaware of
facts indicating that issues of compliance with regulations
related to underground storage tanks will have a material
adverse effect on our business or financial condition.

Finally, with regard to our solid waste
transportation operations, we are subject to the jurisdiction of
the Surface Transportation Board and are regulated by the
Federal Highway Administration, Office of Motor Carriers, and by
regulatory agencies in states that regulated such matters.
Various states have enacted or promulgated, or are considering
enacting or promulgating, laws and regulations that would
restrict the interstate transportation and processing of solid
waste. In 1978, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that a law
that restricts the importation of out-of-state solid waste was
unconstitutional; however, states have attempted to distinguish
proposed laws from that involved in and implicated by that
ruling. In 1994, the Supreme Court ruled that a flow control
law, which attempted to restrict solid waste from leaving its
place of generation, imposed an impermissible burden upon
interstate commerce, and, therefore, was unconstitutional;
however, states have also attempted to distinguish proposed laws
from that involved in and implicated by that ruling. In response
to these Supreme Court rulings, the U.S. Congress has
considered passing legislation authorizing states and local
governments to restrict the free movement of solid waste in
interstate commerce. If federal legislation authorizing state
and local governments to restrict the free movement of solid
waste in interstate commerce is enacted, such legislation could
adversely affect our operations.

We have established a reserve for landfill and
environmental costs, which includes landfill site final capping,
closure and post-closure costs. We periodically reassess such
costs based on various methods and assumptions regarding
landfill airspace and the technical requirements of
Subtitle D of RCRA and adjust our rates used to expense
final capping, closure and post-closure costs accordingly. Based
on current information and regulatory requirements, we believe
that our reserves for such landfill and environmental
expenditures are adequate. However, environmental laws may
change, and there can be no assurance that our reserves will be
adequate to cover requirements under existing or new
environmental laws and regulations, future changes or
interpretations of existing laws and regulations or the
identification of adverse environmental conditions previously
unknown to us. See “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations — Landfill and Environmental Matters”
and “Risk Factors — Compliance with environmental
regulation may impede our growth.”

Liability Insurance and Bonding

The nature of our business exposes our company to
the risk of liabilities arising out of our operations, including
possible damages to the environment. Such potential liabilities
could involve, for example, claims for remediation costs,
personal injury, property damage and damage to the environment
in cases where we may be held responsible for the escape of
harmful materials; claims of employees, customers or third
parties for personal injury or property damage occurring in the
course of our operations; or claims alleging negligence in the
planning or performance of work. We could also be subject to
fines and civil and criminal penalties in connection with
alleged violations of regulatory requirements. Because of the
nature and scope of the possible environmental damages,
liabilities imposed in environmental litigation can be
significant. Our solid waste operations have third party
environmental liability insurance with limits in excess of those
required by permit regulations, subject to certain limitations
and exclusions. However, we cannot assure you that the limits of
such environmental liability insurance would be adequate in the
event of a major loss, nor can we assure you that we would
continue to carry excess environmental liability insurance
should market conditions in the insurance industry make such
coverage costs prohibitive.

We have general liability, vehicle liability,
employment practices liability, pollution liability, directors
and officers liability, worker’s compensation and
employer’s liability coverage, as well as umbrella
liability policies to provide excess coverage over the
underlying limits contained in these primary policies. We also
carry property insurance. Although we try to operate safely and
prudently and while we have, subject to limitations and
exclusions, substantial liability insurance, no assurance can be
given that we will not be exposed to uninsured liabilities which
could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition,
results of operations or cash flows.



Our insurance programs for worker’s
compensation, general liability, vehicle liability and
employee-related health care benefits are effectively
self-insured. Claims in excess of self-insurance levels are
fully insured subject to policy limits. Accruals are based on
claims filed and actuarial estimates of claims incurred but not
reported. Due to the variable condition of the insurance market,
we have experienced, and may continue to experience in the
future, increased self-insurance retention levels and increased
premiums. As we assume more risk for self-insurance through
higher retention levels, we may experience more variability in
our self-insurance reserves and expense.

In the normal course of business, we may be
required to post performance bonds, insurance policies, letters
of credit and/or cash deposits in connection with municipal
residential collection contracts, the operation, closure or
post-closure of landfills, certain remediation contracts,
certain environmental permits, and certain business licenses and
permits. Bonds issued by surety companies operate as a financial
guarantee of our performance. To date, we have satisfied
financial responsibility requirements by making cash deposits or
by obtaining bank letters of credit, insurance policies or
surety bonds.

Employees

As of December 31, 2003, we employed
approximately 12,900 full-time employees, approximately
3,200 of whom were covered by collective bargaining agreements.
Our management believes that we have good relations with our
employees.

Compensation

We believe that our compensation program
effectively aligns our field and corporate management team with
the company’s overall goal of generating increasing amounts
of free cash flow while achieving targeted earnings and returns
on invested capital. This is done by utilizing simple and
measurable metrics on which incentive pay is based. At the field
level, these metrics are based upon free cash flow, earnings and
return on invested capital for each manager’s geographic
area of responsibility. Great effort is taken to ensure that
these individual goals agree to the overall goals of the
company. Incentive compensation at the corporate level is based
on the obtainment of our company’s overall goals. In
addition, certain field and corporate employees also participate
in a long-term incentive program. We believe this program aligns
our company’s short- and long-term goals and helps ensure
that the long-term success of our company is not sacrificed for
the obtainment of short-term goals.

Corporate History

We were incorporated as a Delaware corporation in
1996 by our former parent company, AutoNation, Inc. In 1998,
AutoNation separated its non-hazardous solid waste services
division from its other businesses and we completed an initial
public offering of shares of our common stock. In 1999,
AutoNation sold substantially all of its remaining interest in
our company in a secondary public offering.

Availability of Reports and Other
Information

Our corporate website is
http://www.republicservices.com. We make available on this
website, free of charge, access to our Annual Report on
Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current
Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A
and amendments to those materials filed or furnished pursuant to
Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities and Exchange Act
of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after we
electronically submit such material to the Securities and
Exchange Commission. Our corporate website also contains our
Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Ethics and Charter of
the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, Audit
Committee and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.
In addition, the Commission’s website is
http://www.sec.gov. The Commission makes available on this
website, free of charge, reports, proxy and information
statements, and other information regarding issuers, such as us,
that file electronically with the Commission. Information on our
website or the Commission’s website is not part of this
document.



Risk Factors

This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes
“forward-looking statements” within the meaning of
Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, including, in particular, certain statements about our
plans, strategies and prospects. Although we believe that our
plans, intentions and expectations reflected in or suggested by
such forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot assure
you that such plans, intentions or expectations will be
achieved. Important factors that could cause our actual results
to differ materially from our forward-looking statements include
those set forth in this Risk Factors section. All
forward-looking statements attributable to us or any persons
acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety
by the cautionary statements set forth below. Unless the context
requires otherwise, all references to the “company,”
“we,” “us” or “our” include
Republic Services, Inc. and its subsidiaries.

If any of the following risks, or other risks
not presently known to us or that we currently believe to not be
significant, develop into actual events, then our business,
financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or
prospects could be materially adversely affected.

We operate in a highly competitive industry
and may be unable to compete effectively.

We operate in a highly competitive business
environment. Some of our competitors have significantly larger
operations and may have significantly greater financial
resources than we do. In addition, the solid waste industry is
constantly changing as a result of consolidation which may
create additional competitive pressures in our business
environment.

We also compete with municipalities that maintain
their own waste collection or disposal operations. These
municipalities may have a financial advantage over us as a
result of the availability of tax revenue and tax-exempt
financing.

We compete for collection accounts primarily on
the basis of price and the quality of services. From time to
time our competitors may reduce the price of their services in
an effort to expand their market share or to win a competitively
bid municipal contract.

In each market in which we own or operate a
landfill, we compete for solid waste volume on the basis of
disposal or “tipping” fees, geographical location and
quality of operations. Our ability to obtain solid waste volume
for our landfills may be limited by the fact that some major
collection companies also own or operate landfills to which they
send their waste. In markets in which we do not own or operate a
landfill, our collection operations may operate at a
disadvantage to fully integrated competitors.

As a result of these factors, we may have
difficulty competing effectively from time to time.

Economic conditions may continue to adversely
affect our business, operations and internal growth.

During 2001, the economic slowdown reduced
recycling commodity prices which negatively impacted our
operating margins. The economic slowdown also negatively
impacted the portion of our business servicing the manufacturing
sector and the non-residential construction industry. Landfill
volumes attributable to manufacturing and construction activity
began to weaken. Furthermore, the portion of our business that
services the residential construction industry was negatively
impacted toward the latter part of 2001. During 2002, landfill
volumes attributable to manufacturing and construction activity
continued to weaken. A continued slowdown in the economy could
further adversely affect volumes, pricing and operating margins
in our collection, transfer and disposal operations.

An increase in the price of fuel may adversely
affect our business.

Our operations are dependent upon fuel, which we
purchase in the open market on a daily basis. During 2003, we
experienced an increase in the cost of fuel. A portion of this
increase was passed on to our customers. To date in 2004, we
have experienced an additional increase in the cost of fuel.
However, because of the competitive nature of the waste
industry, there can be no assurances that we will be able to
pass on the recent or any future increases in fuel prices to our
customers. Due to political instability in oil-producing
countries,



fuel prices may continue to increase
significantly in 2004. A significant increase in fuel costs
could adversely affect our business.

We may be unable to execute our financial
strategy.

Our ability to execute our financial strategy is
dependent upon our ability to maintain an investment grade
rating on our senior debt. The credit rating process is
contingent upon a number of factors, many of which are beyond
our control.

Our financial strategy is also dependent upon our
ability to generate sufficient cash flow to reinvest in our
existing business, to fund our internal growth, to acquire other
solid waste businesses, repurchase shares of our common stock,
pay dividends, minimize our borrowings and take other actions to
enhance stockholder value. We cannot assure you that we will be
successful in executing our new broad-based pricing program,
that we will generate sufficient cash flow to execute our
financial strategy, that we will continue to repurchase our
common stock, or that we will be able to pay cash dividends or
increase the amount of our dividends.

We may be unable to execute our acquisition
growth strategy.

Our ability to execute our growth strategy still
depends in part on our ability to identify and acquire desirable
acquisition candidates as well as our ability to successfully
consolidate acquired operations into our business. The
consolidation of our operations with the operations of acquired
companies, including the consolidation of systems, procedures,
personnel and facilities, the relocation of staff, and the
achievement of anticipated cost savings, economies of scale and
other business efficiencies, presents significant challenges to
our management, particularly if several acquisitions occur at
the same time. In short, we cannot assure you that:

Additional factors may negatively impact our
acquisition growth strategy. Our acquisition strategy requires
spending significant amounts of capital. If we are unable to
obtain additional needed financing on acceptable terms, we may
need to reduce the scope of our acquisition growth strategy,
which could have a material adverse effect on our growth
prospects. The intense competition among our competitors
pursuing the same acquisition candidates may increase purchase
prices for solid waste businesses and increase our capital
requirements and/or prevent us from acquiring certain
acquisition candidates. If any of the aforementioned factors
force us to alter our growth strategy, our financial condition,
results of operations and growth prospects could be adversely
affected.

We may be unable to manage our growth
effectively.

Our growth strategy places significant demands on
our financial, operational and management resources. In order to
continue our growth, we will need to add administrative and
other personnel, and make additional investments in operations
and systems. We cannot assure you that we will be able to find
and train qualified personnel, or do so on a timely basis, or
expand our operations and systems to the extent, and in the
time, required.

Businesses we acquire may have undisclosed
liabilities.

In pursuing our acquisition strategy, our
investigations of the acquisition candidates may fail to
discover certain undisclosed liabilities of the acquisition
candidates. If we acquire a company having undisclosed
liabilities, as a successor owner we may be responsible for such
undisclosed liabilities. We typically try to minimize our
exposure to such liabilities by obtaining indemnification from
each seller of the acquired



companies, by deferring payment of a portion of
the purchase price as security for the indemnification and by
acquiring only specified assets. However, we cannot assure you
that we will be able to obtain indemnifications or that they
will be enforceable, collectible or sufficient in amount, scope
or duration to fully offset any undisclosed liabilities arising
from our acquisitions.

Our financial statements are based upon
estimates and assumptions that may differ from actual
results.

Our financial statements have been prepared in
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States and necessarily include amounts based on estimates
and assumptions made by us. Actual results could differ from
these amounts. Significant items subject to such estimates and
assumptions include the carrying value of long-lived assets, the
depletion and amortization of landfill development costs,
accruals for final capping, closure and post-closure costs,
valuation allowances for accounts receivable, liabilities for
potential litigation, claims and assessments, and liabilities
for environmental remediation, income taxes and self-insurance.

We cannot assure you that our reserves for
landfill and environmental costs will be adequate to cover the
requirements of existing environmental regulations, future
changes or interpretations of existing regulations, or the
identification of adverse environmental conditions previously
unknown to us.

Changes in insurance markets may impact our
financial results.

Due to the variable condition of the insurance
market, we have experienced, and may continue to experience in
the future, increased self-insurance retention levels and
increased premiums. As we assume more risk for self-insurance
through higher retention levels, we may experience more
variability in our self-insurance reserves and expense.

We depend on key personnel.

Our future success depends on the continued
contributions of several key employees and officers. We do not
maintain key man life insurance policies on any of our officers.
The loss of the services of key employees and officers, whether
such loss is through resignation or other causes, or the
inability to attract additional qualified personnel, could have
a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of
operations and growth prospects.

Compliance with environmental and other laws
and regulations may impede our growth.

We may need to spend considerable time, effort
and capital to keep our facilities in compliance with federal,
state and local requirements regulating health, safety,
environment, zoning, land use and transportation. In addition,
some of our waste operations that cross state boundaries could
be adversely affected if the federal government, or the state or
locality in which these waste operations are located, imposes
fees on, or otherwise limits or prohibits, the transportation or
disposal of solid waste. If environmental laws become more
stringent, our environmental capital expenditures and costs for
environmental compliance may increase in the future. In
addition, due to the possibility of unanticipated events or
regulatory developments, the amounts and timing of future
environmental expenditures could vary substantially from those
we currently anticipate. Because of the nature of our
operations, we have in the past, currently are, and may in the
future be named as a potentially responsible party in connection
with the investigation or remediation of environmental
conditions. We cannot assure you that the resolution of any such
investigations will not have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. A
significant judgment or fine against our company, or our loss of
significant permits or licenses, could have a material adverse
effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash
flows or prospects.

Regulatory approval to develop or expand our
landfills and transfer stations may be delayed or
denied.

Our plans include developing new landfills and
transfer stations, as well as expanding the disposal and
transfer capacities of certain of our landfills and transfer
stations, respectively. Various parties, including
citizens’ groups and local politicians, sometimes challenge
these projects. Responding to these challenges has,



at times, increased our costs and extended the
time associated with establishing new facilities and expanding
existing facilities. In addition, failure to receive regulatory
approval may prohibit us from establishing new facilities and
expanding existing facilities.

Seasonal changes may adversely affect our
business and operations.

Our operations may be adversely affected by
periods of inclement weather which could delay the collection
and disposal of waste, reduce the volume of waste generated, or
delay the construction or expansion of our landfill sites and
other facilities.

We may be unable to extend the maturity of our
revolving short-term credit facility.

We have a revolving short-term credit facility in
the principal amount of $300 million which expires in July
2004. We anticipate extending the maturity of this credit
facility until July 2005. However, we cannot assure you that we
will receive such extension and, if so, whether such extension
will be on terms as favorable to us as those currently contained
in the credit facility.

The outcome of audits by the Internal Revenue
Service may adversely affect our company.

Through the date of our initial public offering
in July 1998, we filed consolidated federal income tax returns
with AutoNation. The Internal Revenue Service is auditing
AutoNation’s consolidated tax returns for fiscal years 1997
through 1998. In accordance with the tax sharing agreement we
have with AutoNation, we may be liable for certain assessments
imposed by the Internal Revenue Service for the periods through
June 1998 resulting from this audit. In addition, the Internal
Revenue Service is auditing our consolidated tax returns for
fiscal years 1998 through 2000. No assurance can be given with
respect to the outcome of these audits or the effect they may
have on us, or that our reserves with respect thereto are
adequate. A significant assessment against us could have a
material adverse effect on our financial position, results of
operations or cash flows.



ITEM  2.

PROPERTIES

Our corporate headquarters are located in
Ft. Lauderdale, Florida in leased premises. As of
December 31, 2003, we operated approximately 5,600
collection vehicles. Certain of our property and equipment are
subject to operating leases or liens securing payment of
portions of our indebtedness. We also lease certain of our
offices and equipment. We believe that our facilities are
sufficient for our current needs.

The following table provides certain information
regarding the 58 landfills owned or operated by us as of
December 31, 2003:

(1)

Operated but not owned by us.

(2)

Total acreage includes permitted acreage,
    probable expansion acreage, other acreage available for future
    disposal that has not been permitted, buffer land and other
    contiguous land owned by our company.

(3)

Permitted acreage consists of all acreage at the
    landfill encompassed by an active permit to dispose of waste.

(4)

Unused permitted acreage consists of all acreage
    at the landfill encompassed by an active permit on which
    disposal operations have not commenced.



ITEM 3.

LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

We are and will continue to be involved in
various administrative and legal proceedings in the ordinary
course of business. We can give you no assurance regarding the
outcome of these proceedings or the effect their outcomes may
have, or that our insurance coverages or reserves are adequate.
A significant judgment against our company, the loss of
significant permits or licenses, or the imposition of a
significant fine could have a material adverse effect on our
financial position, results of operations, cash flows or
prospects.

ITEM 4.

SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY
    HOLDERS

No matters were submitted to our stockholders
during the fourth quarter of 2003.



PART II

ITEM  5.

MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY
    AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

Market Information, Holders and
Dividends

Our common stock began trading on the
New York Stock Exchange on July 1, 1998.

The following table sets forth the range of the
high and low sales prices of our common stock for the periods
indicated:

On March 5, 2004 the last reported sales
price of our common stock was $26.77.

There were approximately 88 record holders of our
common stock at March 5, 2004.

In July 2003, our board of directors initiated a
quarterly cash dividend of $.06 per share. In October 2003,
we paid a dividend of $9.6 million to shareholders of
record as of September 30, 2003. As of December 31,
2003, we recorded a dividend payable of approximately
$9.4 million to shareholders of record at the close of
business on January 2, 2004 which has been paid. In January
2004, our board of directors declared a regular quarterly
dividend of $.06 per share for shareholders of record on
April 1, 2004.

During 2000 through 2003, our board of directors
authorized the repurchase of up to $675.0 million of our
common stock. As of December 31, 2003, we paid
$484.3 million to repurchase approximately
25.6 million shares of our stock, of which approximately
8.4 million shares were acquired during 2003 for
$184.2 million. As of December 31, 2003, we had
$190.7 million remaining under our share repurchase
authorizations.

As of December 31, 2003, we have the ability
under our loan covenants to pay dividends and repurchase our
common stock in the aggregate amount of up to
$124.4 million, plus 50% of future net income.

The information required by Item 201(d) of
Regulation S-K is included in Item 12 of Part III
of this Form 10-K.



ITEM 6.

SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA (in millions, except
    per share data)

The following Selected Financial Data should be
read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements
and notes thereto as of December 31, 2003 and 2002 and for
each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
2003 and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included
elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The selected
statement of income data and the other operating data for 2000
and 1999 and the selected balance sheet data at
December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999 were derived from our
Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been audited by
Arthur Andersen LLP, independent certified public accountants.
Certain amounts in the historical Consolidated Financial
Statements have been reclassified to conform to the 2003
presentation. See Notes 1, 4 and 7 of the Notes to our
Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of basis of
presentation, business combinations and stockholders’
equity and their effect on comparability of year-to-year data.

(a)

During 2002, we also paid $72.6 million to
    purchase equipment originally placed into service pursuant to an
    operating lease.



ITEM 7.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
    FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

You should read the following discussion in
conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and their
Notes contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Overview of Our Business

We are a leading provider of non-hazardous solid
waste collection and disposal services in the United States. We
provide solid waste collection services for commercial,
industrial, municipal and residential customers through 142
collection companies in 22 states. We also own or operate
93 transfer stations, 58 solid waste landfills and 35 recycling
facilities.

We generate revenue primarily from our solid
waste collection operations, and our remaining revenue is from
landfill disposal services and other services, including
recycling and compost, mulch and soil operations.

The following table reflects our total revenue by
source for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001
(in millions):

Our revenue from collection operations consists
of fees we receive from commercial, industrial, municipal and
residential customers. Our residential and commercial collection
operations in some markets are based on long-term contracts with
municipalities. We generally provide industrial and commercial
collection operations to individual customers under contracts
with terms up to three years. Our revenue from landfill
operations is from disposal or tipping fees charged to third
parties. In general, we integrate our recycling operations with
our collection operations and obtain revenue from the sale of
recyclable materials. No one customer has individually accounted
for more than 10% of our consolidated revenue or of our
reportable segment revenue in any of the last three years.

The cost of our collection operations is
primarily variable and includes disposal, labor, self-insurance,
fuel and equipment maintenance costs. We try to be more
efficient by controlling the movement of waste streams from the
point of collection through disposal. During the three months
ended December 31, 2003, approximately 54% of the total
volume of waste we collected was disposed of at landfills we own
or operate.

Our landfill costs include daily operating
expenses, costs of capital for cell development, costs for final
capping, closure and post-closure, and the legal and
administrative costs of ongoing environmental compliance. We
expense all indirect landfill development costs as they are
incurred. We use life cycle accounting and the
units-of-consumption method to recognize certain direct landfill
costs. In life cycle accounting, certain direct costs are
capitalized, and charged to expense based upon the consumption
of cubic yards of available airspace. These costs include all
costs to acquire and construct a site. Obligations associated
with final capping, closure and post-closure are capitalized,
and amortized on a units-of-consumption basis as airspace is
consumed.



Cost and airspace estimates are developed
annually by engineers. These estimates are used by our operating
and accounting personnel to annually adjust our rates used to
expense capitalized costs. Changes in these estimates primarily
relate to changes in available airspace, inflation and
applicable regulations. Changes in available airspace include
changes in design and changes due to the addition of airspace
lying in expansion areas that we believe has a probable
likelihood of being permitted.

Our operations are managed and reviewed through
five regions which we designate as our reportable segments. From
2002 to 2003, operating income increased in our Central,
Southwestern and Western regions due to an overall increase in
revenue resulting from the successful execution of our growth
strategy. In the Eastern and Southern regions, increased revenue
was offset by negative local economic conditions and an increase
in costs associated with the long-haul transport of waste by
third-party vendors.

2003 Financial Objectives

In January 2003, we publicly announced our
objectives for the year. These objectives included the following:

2003 Business Performance

Despite a weak economy and a significant increase
in insurance expense, we were able to exceed our free cash flow,
internal growth and share repurchase objectives during 2003.

The economic slowdown which began in 2001
continued to negatively impact the portion of our business
servicing the manufacturing sector and non-residential
construction activity during 2003.

Despite the weakness we experienced in the
aspects of our business noted above, our internal growth from
core operations for 2003 was 3.9% with 1.8% from price increases
and 2.1% from volume growth. During 2003, we continued to
benefit from several long-term franchise and municipal contracts
that were secured during 2002. In addition, our geographic mix
of business, which is concentrated in high growth markets,
positively impacted our operating results. As a result, during
2003 we were able to exceed the internal growth objectives we
established at the beginning of the year.

During 2003 our operating margins were negatively
impacted by increased costs for self-insurance expense. This
increase in self-insurance expense relates to existing claims
and is attributable to the expansion of our operations and
various changes in estimates as a result of continued negative
trends through our current policy year, based on recent
actuarial claims experience, expected claims development and
medical cost inflation. In addition to the economic slowdown and
increased costs for self-insurance, during 2003 our operating
margins were also negatively impacted by increased fuel costs,
increased depreciation expense primarily associated with capital
additions, increased state landfill taxes and increased revenue
from municipal contracts and transfer stations which have lower
margins than our other lines of business.

This decrease in operating margins was partially
offset by a decrease in costs associated with the termination of
our operating lease facility and a decrease in selling, general
and administrative expense as a percent of revenue. During 2001,
we began a number of initiatives designed to increase
efficiencies and reduce costs including the implementation of a
number of management information systems such as route
optimization, customer relationship tracking and equipment
maintenance software. We continued to realize benefits from
these initiatives in 2003.



Notwithstanding the impact of the economic
slowdown and the increase in self-insurance and other expenses,
our earnings per share before cumulative effect of changes in
accounting principles for the year ended December 31, 2003
was $1.33. However we were able to generate free cash flow of
$336.4 million (consisting of cash provided by operating
activities of $600.5 million, less purchases of property
and equipment of $273.2 million, plus proceeds from the
sale of property and equipment of $9.1 million) which
substantially exceeded our objective.

During October 2003, our board of directors
increased our previously authorized share repurchase program
from $150.0 million to $175.0 million and also
authorized an additional $200.0 million share repurchase
program. We used our free cash flow during 2003 to repurchase
8.4 million shares of our common stock for
$184.2 million. Also during July 2003, our board of
directors initiated a quarterly dividend of $.06 per share.

2004 Financial Objectives

Our financial objectives for 2004 assume no
deterioration or improvement in the overall economy from that
experienced during the fourth quarter 2003. Specific guidance is
as follows:

Business Initiatives

Our business initiatives for 2004 are generally a
continuation of those initiated in the prior two years and are
dependent on standardizing our business processes and improving
our systems. Ensuring that our people understand our initiatives
and processes and are trained on our new systems is essential to
the overall success of our initiatives. Our business initiatives
for 2004 are as follows:

•

Pricing initiatives.

During the fourth quarter of 2003, we implemented a broad-based
    pricing initiative across all lines of our business. The purpose
    of this initiative is to recover increasing costs. We began to
    realize the benefit of this initiative during the fourth quarter
    of 2003 and our anticipated internal revenue growth in 2004
    includes the benefit we expect to realize from this initiative
    during the next year.

•

Improve the quality of our
    revenue.

The first step in this
    process was completed in 2001 and included installing a
    standardized billing and operating system. This system enables
    us to, among other things, stratify our customers to determine
    how our rates compare to current market pricing. During 2002, we
    implemented the second generation of this software which we call
    RSI 1.0. RSI 1.0, our company’s core business system,
    provides a variety of functionalities including customer
    service, dispatch, billing, sales analysis, account retention
    and route productivity analysis.

We currently monitor our return on investment by
    market place and are in the process of instituting a return on
    investment pricing model. This model will eventually allow us to
    track our return on investment by customer.

During 2001, we also implemented a customer
    relationship management system. This system improves the
    productivity of our sales force by helping to establish
    marketing priorities and track sales leads. It also tracks
    renewal periods for potential commercial, industrial and
    franchise contracts. Our focus during 2004 will be to continue
    to ensure our sales force is properly trained on this system and
    using it as intended.



•

Improve the productivity of our
    operations.

We use a grid productivity
    program that enables us to benchmark the performance of our
    drivers. In addition, in our larger markets, we use a route
    optimization program to minimize drive times and improve
    operational density. During 2004, we will continue to update our
    disposal optimization reviews. These reviews determine which
    local disposal option maximizes our return on invested capital
    and cash flow.

•

Improve fleet management and
    procurement.

In February 2002, we
    selected Dossier as our fleet management and parts procurement
    system. During 2003, we implemented Dossier at all of our
    significant hauling and landfill operations. Among other
    features, this system tracks parts inventories, generates
    automatic quantity order points and logs all maintenance work.
    It allows us to capture and review information to ensure our
    preventive maintenance programs comply with manufacturers’
    warranties and governmental regulations. In addition, the
    purchase order module within this system allows us to
    cross-reference purchasing information with our inventory.

•

Enhance operational and financial reporting
    systems.

We have several initiatives
    aimed at improving our operational and financial reporting
    systems. The overall goal of these initiatives is to provide us
    with detailed information, prepared in a consistent manner, that
    will allow us to quickly analyze and act upon trends in our
    business.

The most significant of these systems is our
    enterprise-wide general ledger package. We successfully
    converted all of our locations to Lawson general ledger software
    in 2002 and in 2003 successfully converted all of our locations
    to Lawson fixed asset software.

All of the system initiatives mentioned above
    will provide us with more consistent and detailed information,
    thus allowing us to make quicker and more informed business
    decisions. In addition, during 2001, all of our significant
    software applications were standardized and centralized at our
    data center in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. This
    standardization and centralization provides us with consolidated
    information concerning our operations across a variety of
    operational and financial disciplines. It also significantly
    enhances our ability to execute our disaster recovery plan, if
    necessary.

•

Expand our safety training
    programs.

As part of our ongoing
    emphasis on safe work practices and in light of increasing
    insurance costs, we expanded our safety training programs in
    2002. We have signed a multi-year agreement with DuPont Safety
    Resources to assist in successfully completing this initiative.

Critical Accounting Policies and
Disclosures

Our Consolidated Financial Statements have been
prepared using accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States and necessarily include certain estimates and
judgments made by management. The following is a list of
accounting policies that we believe are the most critical in
understanding our



company’s financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows, and may require management to make
subjective or complex judgments about matters that are
inherently uncertain.













Business Combinations

We make decisions to acquire or invest in
businesses based on financial and strategic considerations.
Businesses acquired are accounted for under the purchase method
of accounting and are included in our Consolidated Financial
Statements from the date of acquisition.

We acquired various solid waste businesses during
the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001. The
aggregate purchase prices we paid for these transactions was
$51.5 million, $55.8 million and $287.7 million,
respectively. The aggregate purchase price paid for businesses
acquired during 2001, less cash and restricted cash acquired
plus debt assumed, was $247.5 million.

Cost in excess of fair value of net assets
acquired for 2003 acquisitions totaled approximately
$21.2 million. As of December 31, 2003 we had
intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, of
$1,583.1 million, which consist primarily of the cost in
excess of fair value of net assets acquired.

During 2003, $27.7 million of the total
purchase price paid for acquisitions and contingent payments to
former owners was allocated to landfill airspace. As of
December 31, 2003, we had $690.6 million of landfill
development costs net of accumulated depletion and amortization
which includes purchase price allocated to landfill airspace as
well as other capitalized landfill costs. When a landfill is
acquired as part of a group of assets, purchase price is
allocated to airspace based upon the discounted expected future
cash flows of the landfill relative to the other assets within
the acquired group and is adjusted for other non-depletable
landfill assets and liabilities acquired (primarily final
capping, closure and post-closure liabilities). Landfill
purchase price is amortized using the units-of-consumption
method over total available airspace which includes probable
expansion airspace where appropriate.

Cost in excess of fair value of net assets
acquired for 2002 acquisitions totaled approximately
$40.1 million. As of December 31, 2002 we had
intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, of
$1,569.9 million, which consist primarily of the cost in
excess of fair value of net assets acquired.

Cost in excess of fair value of net assets
acquired for 2001 acquisitions totaled approximately
$223.3 million. As of December 31, 2001, we had
intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, of
$1,551.6 million, which consist primarily of the cost in
excess of fair value of net assets acquired. In addition, during
2001, $62.6 million of the total purchase price for
acquisitions and contingent payments to former owners was
allocated to landfill airspace.

Consolidated Results of Operations

Years Ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and

Our income before cumulative effect of changes in
accounting principles was $215.4 million for the year ended
December 31, 2003, as compared to $239.6 million in
2002 and $125.5 million in 2001. Net income for the year
ended December 31, 2003 includes an after-tax expense of
$37.8 million (net of an income tax benefit of
$23.1 million), or $.23 per share, as a cumulative
effect of a change in accounting principle resulting from the
adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 143, “Accounting for Asset Retirement
Obligations,” and a change in accounting principle for our
methane gas collection systems. See Note 1, Basis of
Presentation, of the Notes to our Unaudited Condensed
Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of
these changes in accounting principles. Our operating results
for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001 include
other charges (income) described below.



The following table summarizes our costs and
expenses in millions of dollars and as a percentage of our
revenue for 2001 through 2003:

Revenue.

Revenue was
$2,517.8 million, $2,365.1 million and
$2,257.5 million for the years ended December 31,
2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Revenue increased by
$152.7 million, or 6.5%, from 2002 to 2003. Revenue
increased by $107.6 million, or 4.8%, from 2001 to 2002.
The following table reflects the components of our revenue
growth for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001:

(a)

Represents new taxes levied on landfill volumes
    in certain states that are passed on to customers.

•

2003:

We experienced
    moderate growth in revenue due to core pricing during the first
    three quarters of 2003. During the fourth quarter of 2003 our
    revenue growth from core pricing increased due to our
    broad-based pricing initiative. We anticipate that we will
    continue to realize the benefit from this pricing initiative
    during 2004.

During 2003, the economic slowdown which began
    during 2001 continued to negatively impact our business.
    However, during 2003, our revenue growth from core volume
    continued to be positively impacted by long-term franchise and
    municipal contracts that were secured during 2002. As we entered
    into fewer new franchise and municipal contracts during 2003
    versus 2002, we anticipate that we will experience less revenue
    growth from core volume in 2004.

•

2002:

The economic
    slowdown which began in 2001 continued to negatively impact the
    portion of our business servicing the manufacturing sector and
    non-residential construction industry during 2002. Volumes
    attributable to manufacturing and construction activity
    continued to weaken during 2002.

The weakness in our business attributable to the
    economic slowdown was partially offset by an increase in
    recycling commodity prices in the early part of 2002.



Despite the weakness we experienced in the
    aspects of our business noted above, our internal growth from
    core operations for 2002 was 3.0%. During 2002, we secured
    several long-term franchise and municipal contracts. We also
    benefited from the geographic mix of our business which favors
    high growth markets.

•

2001:

During the
    first and second quarters of 2001, our revenue was negatively
    impacted by weakness in recycling commodity prices. In addition,
    during the second quarter of 2001, we began to see a slowdown in
    revenue from the manufacturing sector, particularly in the
    Midwestern and Mid-Atlantic states.

During the third quarter of 2001, the economic
    slowdown began to impact our industrial business servicing the
    non-residential construction industry. Landfill volumes
    attributable to manufacturing and construction activity began to
    weaken. In addition, the slowdown we began to experience in the
    second quarter in the manufacturing sector became more acute as
    we experienced significant shift reductions and plant closings
    in the Southeastern United States, particularly in the textile
    and home furnishing industries in the Carolinas. These
    conditions were reflected in our internal growth numbers, which
    were approximately half of what we experienced in prior quarters.

During the fourth quarter of 2001, we continued
    to see a weakening in waste volumes from the manufacturing
    sector. We also continued to see a slowdown in commercial
    construction and special waste activity which resulted in both
    volume reductions and price sensitivity for these services.
    Furthermore, we began to see a softening in residential
    construction activity.

•

2004 Outlook:

We
    anticipate internal growth from core operations to be 3% during
    2004 assuming no deterioration or improvement in the overall
    economy from that experienced during the fourth quarter of 2003.
    However, our price and volume growth may remain flat or may
    decline in 2004 depending upon economic conditions and our
    success in implementing our pricing initiative.

Cost of Operations.

Cost of operations was $1,605.4 million,
$1,472.9 million and $1,422.5 million, or, as a
percentage of revenue, 63.8%, 62.3% and 63.0%, for the years
ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

The increase in aggregate dollars in all periods
presented is primarily a result of the expansion of our
operations through acquisitions and internal growth.

The increase in cost of operations as a
percentage of revenue from 2002 to 2003 is primarily
attributable to self-insurance expense. This increase in
self-insurance expense relates to existing claims and is
attributable to the expansion of our operations and various
changes in estimates as a result of continued negative trends
through our current policy year, based on recent actuarial
claims experience, expected claims development and medical cost
inflation. The increase in cost of operations as a percentage of
revenue is also due to increased fuel prices, an increase in
waste taxes levied on landfill volumes in certain states, an
increase in revenue generated by lines of business that produce
lower operating margins and an increase in the long-haul
transport of waste by third-party vendors. These increases in
costs were partially offset by the elimination of closure and
post-closure expense as a component of cost of operations in
accordance with SFAS 143 and the termination of our
operating lease facility.

During the fourth quarter of 2001, we recorded a
charge of $86.1 million on an after-tax basis, or
$132.0 million on a pre-tax basis. Of this pre-tax amount,
$24.2 million was recorded to cost of operations which
relates primarily to the downsizing of our compost, mulch and
soil business and related inventory adjustments and an increase
in self-insurance reserves.

Excluding the impact of this charge, cost of
operations for 2001 was $1,398.3 million, or 61.9% as a
percent of revenue. The increase in adjusted cost of operations
as a percentage of revenue from 2001 to 2002 is primarily the
result of the economic slowdown, higher costs for
self-insurance, and increased revenue from municipal contracts
and transfer stations which have higher operating costs. These
increases in cost of operations were partially offset by
improved operating efficiencies, higher recycling commodity
prices, lower fuel costs and the termination of our operating
lease facility.



To date in 2004, we have experienced a
significant increase in fuel prices. We believe that cost of
operations as a percentage of revenue may continue to remain
high depending upon the cost of fuel, health insurance, risk
insurance and other key components of our cost structure and the
severity and duration of the economic slowdown.

Depreciation, Amortization and Depletion of
Property and Equipment.

Depreciation,
amortization and depletion expenses for property and equipment
were $233.8 million, $193.5 million and
$168.3 million, or, as a percentage of revenue, 9.3%, 8.2%
and 7.4%, for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and
2001, respectively. The increase in aggregate dollars and as a
percentage of revenue from 2002 to 2003 is primarily due to an
increase in landfill amortization associated with the adoption
of SFAS 143. The remaining increase from 2002 to 2003 and
the increase in aggregate dollars and as a percentage of revenue
from 2001 to 2002 is due to increased depreciation expense
resulting from capital expenditures, acquisitions and the
purchase of equipment originally placed into service pursuant to
an operating lease.

Amortization of Intangible
Assets.

Intangible assets consist
primarily of cost in excess of fair value of net assets
acquired, but also includes values assigned to long-term
contracts, covenants not to compete and customer relationships.
Expenses for amortization of intangible assets were
$5.3 million, $6.1 million and $47.1 million, or,
as a percentage of revenue, .2%, .2% and 2.1%, for the years
ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The
decrease in aggregate dollars and as a percent of revenue from
2001 to 2002 is due to the adoption of Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 142, “Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets,” effective January 1, 2002 under
which most of our intangible assets are no longer subject to
amortization.

Accretion Expense.

Accretion expense was $12.7 million or, as a percentage of
revenue, .5%, for the year ended December 31, 2003 versus
$0 for 2002 and 2001. Accretion expense resulted from the
adoption of SFAS 143 as of January 1, 2003.

Selling, General and Administrative
Expenses.

Selling, general and
administrative expenses were $247.9 million,
$238.7 million and $236.5 million, or, as a percentage
of revenue, 9.8%, 10.1% and 10.5%, for the years ended
December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The
increases in aggregate dollars are primarily a result of the
expansion of our operations through acquisitions and internal
growth. The decrease as a percentage of revenue from 2002 to
2003 is primarily due to leveraging our existing overhead
structure over an expanding revenue base.

During the fourth quarter of 2001, we recorded a
charge of $86.1 million on an after-tax basis, or
$132.0 million on a pre-tax basis. Of this pre-tax amount,
$8.2 million was recorded to selling, general and
administrative expenses. Excluding the impact of this charge,
selling, general and administrative expenses for 2001 were
$228.3 million, or 10.1% as a percent of revenue, which is
consistent with 2002.

We believe that selling, general and
administrative expenses in the range of 10% of revenue are
appropriate for 2004 given our business platform.

Other Charges.

During the fourth quarter of 2002, we recorded a
$5.6 million gain on the sale of certain assets for amounts
exceeding estimates originally made during the fourth quarter of
2001.

During the fourth quarter of 2001, we recorded a
charge of $86.1 million on an after-tax basis, or
$132.0 million on a pre-tax basis. Of this pre-tax amount,
$99.6 million was recorded to other charges which relates
primarily to completed and planned divestitures and closings of
certain core and non-core businesses and asset impairments.

Operating Income.

Operating income was $412.7 million, $459.5 million
and $283.5 million, or, as a percentage of revenue, 16.4%,
19.4% and 12.6%, for the years ended December 31, 2003,
2002 and 2001, respectively. Excluding the impact of the other
charges (income) we recorded in the fourth quarters of 2002 and
2001, our operating income was $453.9 million, or 19.2%,
and $415.5 million, or 18.4%, for the years ended
December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

Interest Expense.

We
incurred interest expense on our revolving credit facility,
unsecured notes and tax-exempt bonds. Interest expense was
$78.0 million, $77.0 million and $80.1 million
for the years ended



December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001,
respectively. The increase in interest expense from 2002 to 2003
is due to higher debt balances resulting from additional
tax-exempt financings partially offset by lower interest rates.
The decrease in interest expense from 2001 to 2002 is due to a
general market decrease in interest rates and an increase in
tax-exempt financings, which generally bear interest at lower
rates than our unsecured notes. The decrease in interest expense
is also due to interest rate swap agreements that we entered
into during 2001 and 2002.

Capitalized interest was $3.3 million,
$2.5 million and $3.3 million for the years ended
December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

Interest and Other Income (Expense),
Net.

Interest and other income, net of
other expense, was $12.7 million, $4.0 million and
$5.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2003,
2002 and 2001, respectively. The variances during the periods
are primarily due to fluctuations in cash and restricted cash
balances and net gains on the disposition of assets during 2003
and 2001.

Income Taxes.

Our
provision for income taxes was $132.0 million,
$146.9 million and $83.8 million for the years ended
December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Our
effective income tax rate was 38.0%, 38.0% and 40.0% for the
years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.
Our effective tax rate for 2001 included certain
non-tax-deductible items related to the charge we recorded
during the fourth quarter of 2001. Excluding the impact of this
charge, our effective tax rate for 2001 was 38.0%.

Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting
Principles.

During the first quarter
of 2003, we adopted SFAS 143. SFAS 143 required us to
change the methodology we used to record final capping, closure
and post-closure costs related to our landfills. As of
January 1, 2003, we recorded an after-tax expense of
$20.8 million, or $33.6 million on a pre-tax basis, as
a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle
resulting from the adoption of SFAS 143. In addition, we
also recorded an after-tax expense of $17.0 million, or
$27.4 million on a pre-tax basis, as a cumulative effect of
a change in account principle for our methane gas collection
systems. This change in accounting for methane gas collection
systems was prompted by a thorough evaluation of our landfill
accounting policy in connection with the adoption of
SFAS 143 and is consistent with the methodology used by
other participants in the waste industry.

Landfill and Environmental Matters

Among our most significant investments and most
valuable assets are our landfills. The additional disclosures
included in this section provide the users of our financial
statements with a clearer understanding of our investment in our
landfills and various accounting principles that are unique to
landfill operations.

Available Airspace

The following tables reflect landfill airspace
activity for landfills owned or operated by us for the years
ended December 31, 2001, 2002 and 2003:



Changes in engineering estimates typically
include minor modifications to the available disposal capacity
of a landfill based on a refinement of the capacity calculations
resulting from updated information. Changes in design typically
include significant modifications to a landfill’s footprint
or vertical slopes.

During 2001, total available airspace increased
by 34.1 million cubic yards primarily due to new expansions
undertaken and changes in design partially offset by consumption
and divestitures. During 2002, total available airspace
increased by 22.6 million cubic yards primarily due to the
opening of a greenfield site in South Carolina, changes in
engineering estimates and changes in design partially offset by
consumption. During 2003, total available airspace increased by
56.1 million cubic yards due to new expansions undertaken,
two landfills that were acquired during the year and changes in
design partially offset by airspace consumption and changes in
engineering estimates.

As of December 31, 2003, we owned or
operated 58 solid waste landfills with total available disposal
capacity estimated to be 1.8 billion in-place cubic yards.
Total available disposal capacity represents the sum of
estimated permitted airspace plus an estimate of probable
expansion airspace. These estimates are developed annually by
engineers utilizing information provided by annual aerial
surveys. As of December 31, 2003, total available disposal
capacity is estimated to be 1.5 billion in-place cubic
yards of permitted airspace plus .3 billion in-place cubic
yards of probable expansion airspace. Before airspace included
in an expansion area is determined to be probable expansion
airspace and, therefore, included in our calculation of total
available disposal capacity, it must meet our expansion
criteria. See Note 3, Accrued Landfill, Environmental and
Legal Costs of the Notes to our Consolidated Financial
Statements for further information.

As of December 31, 2003, fifteen of our
landfills meet the criteria for including probable expansion
airspace in their total available disposal capacity. At
projected annual volumes, these fifteen landfills have an
estimated remaining average site life of 30 years,
including probable expansion airspace. The average estimated
remaining life of all of our landfills is 30 years.

As of December 31, 2003, four of our
landfills that meet the criteria for including expansion
airspace had obtained approval from local authorities and are
proceeding into the state permitting process. Also, as of
December 31, 2003, six of our fifteen landfills that meet
the criteria for including expansion airspace had submitted
permit applications to state authorities. The remaining five
landfills that meet the criteria for



including expansion airspace are in the process
of obtaining approval from local authorities and have not
identified any fatal flaws or impediments associated with the
expansions at either the local or state level.

Final Capping, Closure and Post-Closure
    Costs

As of January 1, 2003, we adopted Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards No. 143, “Accounting
for Asset Retirement Obligations.” This statement required
us to change the methodology we used to record final capping,
closure and post-closure costs. See Note 3, Accrued
Landfill, Environmental and Legal Costs, of the Notes to our
Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for
further information.

As of December 31, 2003, accrued final
capping, closure and post-closure costs were
$204.7 million. The current portion of these costs of
$29.5 million is reflected in our Consolidated Balance
Sheets in other current liabilities. The long-term portion of
these costs of $175.2 million is reflected in our
Consolidated Balance Sheets in accrued landfill, environmental
and legal costs.

Investment in Landfills

The following tables reflect changes in our
investment in landfills for the years ended December 31,
2001, 2002 and 2003 and the future expected investment as of
December 31, 2003 (in millions):



The following table reflects our net investment
in our landfills, excluding non-depletable land, and our
depletion and amortization expense for the years ended
December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001. It also shows on a pro
forma basis what our depletion, amortization and accretion
expense would have been if SFAS 143 and the changes in
accounting principles relating to our methane gas collection
systems were effective on January 1, 2001:

During 2003, our weighted average compaction rate
for converting cubic yards to tons was approximately 1,500
pounds per cubic yard.

As of December 31, 2003, we expect to spend
an estimated additional $1,542.2 million on existing
landfills, primarily related to cell construction and
environmental structures, over their expected remaining lives.
Our total expected gross investment, excluding non-depletable
land, estimated to be $2.3 billion, or $1.30 per cubic
yard, is used in determining our depletion and amortization
expense based upon airspace consumed using the
units-of-consumption method.

We accrue costs related to environmental
remediation activities through a charge to income in the period
such liabilities become probable and can be reasonably
estimated. We also accrue costs related to environmental
remediation activities associated with properties acquired
through business combinations as a charge to cost in excess of
fair value of net assets acquired or landfill purchase price
allocated to airspace, as appropriate. No material amounts were
charged to expense during the years ended December 31,
2003, 2002 and 2001.

Financial Condition

One of our key financial objectives is to
maintain a simple, cost-effective and transparent capital
structure.

At December 31, 2003, we had
$215.0 million of restricted cash deposits and
$182.4 million of restricted marketable securities held as
financial guarantees, including $104.6 million of
restricted cash held for capital expenditures under certain debt
facilities, and $40.5 million and $182.4 million of
restricted cash and restricted marketable securities,
respectively, pledged to various regulatory agencies and
governmental entities as financial guarantees of our performance
related to final capping, closure and post-closure obligations
at our



landfills. Restricted marketable securities
consist of mutual funds invested in short-term investment grade
securities, including mortgage-backed securities and
U.S. Government obligations. These securities are available
for sale and, as a result, are stated at fair value based upon
quoted market prices. Unrealized gains and losses, net of tax,
are recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive
income. We intend to liquidate a portion of these marketable
securities and use the proceeds to repay the $225.0 million
of public notes, which mature in May 2004. We also intend to use
letters of credit to replace the financial guarantees secured by
marketable securities to be liquidated.

In July 1998, we entered into a $1.0 billion
unsecured revolving credit facility with a group of banks.
$500.0 million of the credit facility was scheduled to
expire in July 2002 and the remaining $500.0 million was
scheduled to expire in July 2003. As a result of our strong
financial position and liquidity, in February 2002 we reduced
the short- and long-term portions of our credit facility to
$300.0 million and $450.0 million, respectively. In
July 2002, we renewed the long- and short-term portions of our
credit facility respectively, on substantially the same terms
and conditions with the long-term portion expiring in 2007 and
the short-term portion expiring in 2003. The short-term portion
of the facility was renewed again in July 2003 and expires in
July 2004. Borrowings under the credit facility bear interest at
LIBOR-based rates. We use our operating cash flow and proceeds
from our credit facilities to finance our working capital,
capital expenditures, acquisitions, share repurchases, dividends
and other requirements. As of December 31, 2003, we had
$326.3 million available under our credit facility.

In May 1999, we sold $600.0 million of
unsecured notes in the public market. $225.0 million of
these notes bear interest at 6 5/8% per annum and
mature in May 2004. The remaining $375.0 million bear
interest at 7 1/8% per annum and mature in 2009.
Interest on these notes is payable semi-annually in May and
November. The $225.0 million and $375.0 million in
notes were offered at a discount of $1.0 million and
$.5 million, respectively. Proceeds from the notes were
used to repay our revolving credit facility.

In December 1999, we entered into an operating
lease facility established to finance the acquisition of
operating equipment consisting primarily of revenue-producing
vehicles. In July 2002, we exercised our right to purchase the
equipment underlying this facility by paying $72.6 million
using our excess cash, which was the balance outstanding under
the facility at that time.

In August 2001, we sold $450.0 million of
unsecured notes in the public market. The notes bear interest at
6 3/4% and mature in 2011. Interest on these notes is
payable semi-annually in February and August. The notes were
offered at a discount of $2.6 million. Proceeds from the
notes were used to repay our revolving credit facility.

In order to manage risk associated with
fluctuations in interest rates and to take advantage of
favorable floating interest rates, we have entered into interest
rate swap agreements with investment grade-rated financial
institutions. The swap agreements have total notional values of
$225.0 million and $105.0 million, respectively, and
require our company to pay interest at floating rates based upon
changes in LIBOR and receive interest at fixed rates of
6 5/8% and 6 3/4%, respectively. The swap agreements
terminate in May 2004 and August 2011, respectively.

At December 31, 2003, we had
$463.2 million of tax-exempt bonds and other tax-exempt
financings outstanding of which approximately $86.0 million
were obtained during fiscal 2003. Borrowings under these bonds
and other financings bear interest based on fixed or floating
interest rates at the prevailing market ranging from 1.15% to
5.63% at December 31, 2003 and have maturities ranging from
2004 to 2033. As of December 31, 2003, we had
$104.6 million of restricted cash related to proceeds from
tax-exempt bonds and other tax-exempt financings. This
restricted cash will be used to fund capital expenditures under
the terms of the agreements.

We intend to repay the $225.0 million of
public notes that mature in May 2004 using proceeds from the
liquidation of our restricted marketable securities, our excess
cash, proceeds from our revolving credit facility, or a
combination thereof. In addition, we plan to extend the maturity
of our revolving short-term credit facility prior to its
expiration in July 2004 to July 2005. We believe that these
actions would provide us with sufficient financial resources to
meet our anticipated capital requirements and obligations as
they come due. We believe



that we would be able to raise additional debt or
equity financing, if necessary, to fund special corporate needs
or to complete acquisitions. However, we cannot assure you that
we would be able to obtain additional financing under favorable
terms or to extend the existing short-term credit facility on
the same terms.

Selected Balance Sheet Accounts

The following tables reflect the activity in our
allowance for doubtful accounts, final capping, closure,
post-closure and remediation liabilities and accrued
self-insurance during the years ended December 31, 2001,
2002 and 2003 (in millions):



Our expense related to doubtful accounts as a
percentage of revenue for 2001, 2002 and 2003 was 1.0%, .5% and
..4%, respectively.

As of December 31, 2003, accounts receivable
were $248.9 million, net of allowance for doubtful accounts
of $19.0 million, resulting in days sales outstanding of
35 days, or 23 days net of deferred revenue. In
addition, at December 31, 2003, our trade receivables in
excess of 90 days old totaled $14.5 million, or 5.4%
of gross receivables outstanding.

Our expense for self-insurance as a percentage of
revenue for 2001, 2002 and 2003 was 5.8%, 5.8% and 7.5%,
respectively. The increase in self-insurance expense from 2002
to 2003 relates to existing claims and is attributable to the
expansion of our operations and various changes in estimates as
a result of continued negative trends through our current policy
year, based on recent actuarial claims experience, expected
claims development and medical cost inflation.

Property and Equipment

The following tables reflect the activity in our
property and equipment accounts for the years ended
December 31, 2001, 2002 and 2003 (in millions):



Capital additions for 2002 include
$72.6 million used to purchase equipment consisting
primarily of revenue-producing vehicles originally placed into
service pursuant to an operating lease.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

The major components of changes in cash flows for
the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 are
discussed below.

Cash Flows From Operating
Activities.

Cash flows provided by
operating activities were $600.5 million,
$569.7 million and $459.2 million for the years ended
December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The changes
in cash provided by operating activities during the periods are
due to the expansion of our business,



deferred taxes and timing of receipts and
payments from accounts receivable and accounts payable,
respectively.

In December 2003, we received written approval
from the Internal Revenue Service to exclude probable expansion
airspace from our calculation of landfill amortization,
depletion, and final capping, closure and post-closure costs for
tax purposes. As a result of this change, our deferred income
tax provision increased by approximately $82.0 million
during 2003 and we recorded a tax receivable of approximately
$48.0 million.

We use cash flow from operations to fund capital
expenditures, acquisitions, share repurchases, dividend payments
and debt repayments.

Cash Flows Used In Investing
Activities.

Cash flows used in
investing activities consist primarily of cash used for capital
additions and business acquisitions. Cash used to acquire
businesses, net of cash acquired, was $51.5 million,
$55.8 million and $261.2 million during the years
ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.
Capital additions were $273.2 million, $258.6 million
and $249.3 million during the years ended December 31,
2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

The increase in restricted marketable securities
during 2003 consists of amounts transferred from unrestricted
cash for financial guarantees. We intend to liquidate a portion
of these marketable securities and use the proceeds to repay the
$225.0 million of public notes, which mature in May 2004.
We also intend to use letters of credit to replace financial
guarantees secured by marketable securities to be liquidated.

We intend to finance capital expenditures and
acquisitions through cash on hand, cash flows from operations,
our revolving credit facility, tax-exempt bonds and other
financings. We expect to use primarily cash for future business
acquisitions.

Cash Flows From (Used In) Financing
Activities.

Cash flows provided by
(used in) financing activities during the years ended
December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 included commercial bank
borrowings and repayments of debt in all three years, proceeds
from our sale of unsecured notes in 2001, and proceeds from
issuances of tax-exempt bonds in 2003, 2002 and 2001. In August
2001, we sold unsecured notes with a face value of
$450.0 million at a discounted price of
$447.4 million. Proceeds from the notes were used to repay
our revolving credit facility.

In December 1999, we entered into an operating
lease facility established to finance the acquisition of
operating equipment consisting primarily of revenue-producing
vehicles. In July 2002, we retired this facility using our
excess cash.

During 2000 through 2003, our board of directors
authorized the repurchase of up to $675.0 million of our
common stock. As of December 31, 2003, we paid
$484.3 million to repurchase approximately
25.6 million shares of our stock, of which we paid
$184.2 million during 2003 to repurchase approximately
8.4 million shares of our stock.

In July 2003, our board of directors initiated a
quarterly cash dividend of $.06 per share. In October 2003,
we paid a dividend of $9.6 million to shareholders of
record as of September 30, 2003. As of December 31,
2003, we recorded a dividend payable of approximately
$9.4 million to shareholders of record at the close of
business on January 2, 2004 which has been paid. In January
2004, our board of directors declared a regular quarterly
dividend of $.06 per share for shareholders of record on
April 1, 2004.

We used proceeds from our revolving credit
facility, unsecured notes and tax-exempt bonds to fund capital
expenditures and acquisitions and to repay debt. We intend to
finance future stock repurchases and dividend payments through
cash on hand, cash flow from operations, our revolving credit
facility and other financings.

Credit Rating

Our company has received investment grade credit
ratings. As of December 31, 2003, our senior debt was
rated, BBB+ by Standard & Poor’s, BBB+ by Fitch
and Baa2 by Moody’s.



Operating Lease Facility

In December 1999, we entered into a
$100.0 million facility established to finance the
acquisition of operating equipment consisting primarily of
revenue-producing vehicles. In July 2002, we exercised our right
to purchase the equipment underlying this facility by paying
$72.6 million using our excess cash, which was the balance
outstanding under the facility at that time.

Fuel Hedge

During June 2001, we entered into option
agreements for approximately 14.3 million gallons of
heating oil. Under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 133, “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and
Hedging Activities,” as amended, the options qualified for
and were designated as effective hedges of changes in the prices
of forecasted diesel fuel purchases. These option agreements
settled each month in equal notional amounts through December
2002. The option agreements were structured as zero-cost collars
indexed to the price of heating oil. These options expired in
December 2002. In accordance with SFAS 133,
$1.6 million and $(1.6) million, net of tax,
representing the effective portion of the change in fair value
during the periods have been recorded in stockholders’
equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income
(loss) for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001,
respectively. The ineffective portions of the changes in fair
value of approximately $.1 million and $(.1) million
for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001,
respectively, have been included in other income (expense), net
in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Income. Realized
losses of $.8 million and $.6 million for the years
ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively, related to
these option agreements are included in cost of operations in
our Consolidated Statements of Income.

Contractual Obligations

The following table summarizes our contractual
obligations as of December 31, 2003:

Unconditional purchase commitments consist
primarily of long-term disposal agreements that require us to
dispose of a minimal number of tons at third party facilities.

We do not have or engage in any off-balance sheet
arrangements.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About
Market Risk

The table below provides information about our
market sensitive financial instruments and constitutes a
“forward-looking statement.” Our major market risk
exposure is changing interest rates in the United States



and fluctuations in LIBOR. We intend to manage
interest rate risk through the use of a combination of fixed and
floating rate debt. All items described below are non-trading.

The fair value of variable rate debt approximates
the carrying value since interest rates are variable and, thus,
approximate current market rates.

Free Cash Flow

We define free cash flow, which is not a measure
determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting
standards, as cash provided by operating activities less
purchases of property and equipment plus proceeds from the sale
of property and equipment as presented in our consolidated
statement of cash flows. Our free cash flow for the years ended
December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 is calculated as follows
(in millions):

We believe that the presentation of free cash
flow, which is a non-GAAP financial measure, provides useful
information regarding our recurring cash provided by operating
activities after expenditures for property and equipment, net of
proceeds from the sale of equipment. It also demonstrates our
ability to execute our financial strategy which includes
reinvesting in existing capital assets to ensure a high level of
customer service, investing in capital assets to facilitate
growth in our customer base and services provided, pursuing
strategic acquisitions that augment our existing business
platform, repurchasing shares of common stock at prices that
provide value to our shareholders, paying cash dividends,
maintaining our investment grade rating and minimizing debt. In
addition, free cash flow is a key metric used to determine
compensation. Free cash flow does not represent our cash flow
available for discretionary expenditures because it excludes
certain expenditures that are required or that we have committed
to such as debt service requirements and dividend payments. Our
definition of free cash flow may not be comparable to similarly
titled measures presented by other companies.

Seasonality

Our operations can be adversely affected by
periods of inclement weather which could delay the collection
and disposal of waste, reduce the volume of waste generated or
delay the construction or expansion of our landfill sites and
other facilities.

New Accounting Pronouncements

In January 2003, the Financial Accounting
Standards Board issued Interpretation 46,
“Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities.”
FIN 46 introduces a new consolidation model which
determines control and consolidation based upon the majority
beneficiary of the potential variability in gains and losses of
the entity being evaluated. In December 2003, the FASB revised
the initial application and certain terms and exemptions in
FIN 46. FIN 46 is currently effective for all variable
interest entities created or modified after



January 31, 2003 and special purpose
entities created on or before January 31, 2003. The
interpretation is effective for all other variable interest
entities beginning March 31, 2004.

We have evaluated our organizational structure
and have concluded that the portion of FIN 46 that is
currently effective has no impact on our consolidated financial
position, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, we
do not expect the portion of FIN 46 that is effective on
March 31, 2004 to have a material effect on our
consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash
flows.

There are no other new accounting pronouncements
that pertain to our company.



ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT CERTIFIED PUBLIC
ACCOUNTANTS

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of
Republic Services, Inc.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated
balance sheets of Republic Services, Inc. and subsidiaries (the
“Company”) as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, and
the related consolidated statements of income,
stockholders’ equity and comprehensive income, and cash
flows for the years then ended. Our audits also included the
financial statement schedule for the years ended
December 31, 2003 and 2002 listed in the index at
Item 15(a). These financial statements and schedule are the
responsibility of the Company’s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements and schedule based on our audits. The consolidated
financial statements and schedule of the Company for the year
ended December 31, 2001 listed in Item 15(a) of this
Form 10-K were audited by other auditors who have ceased
operations and whose report dated January 30, 2002
expressed an unqualified opinion on those statements and
schedule before the restatement adjustments and disclosures
described below and in Notes 1, 2 and 10.

We conducted our audits in accordance with
auditing standards generally accepted in the United States.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the 2003 and 2002 consolidated
financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all
material respects, the consolidated financial position of
Republic Services, Inc. and subsidiaries at December 31,
2003 and 2002, and the consolidated results of their operations
and their cash flows for the years then ended in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule
for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, when
considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken
as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the
information set forth therein.

As discussed in Note 1 of the consolidated
financial statements, effective January 1, 2003, the
Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 143, “Accounting for Asset Retirement
Obligations” (“SFAS 143”) and changed its
method of accounting for methane gas collection systems. As
discussed in Note 2 of the consolidated financial
statements, effective January 1, 2002 the Company adopted
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142,
“Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”
(“SFAS 142”).

As discussed above, the consolidated financial
statements of the Company for the year ended December 31,
2001, were audited by other auditors who have ceased operations.
The Company has made certain adjustments to and provided
additional disclosures in the 2001 financial statements to
conform with the current year’s presentation or to comply
with adoption requirements of new accounting pronouncements, as
follows:

(i) As discussed in Note 1, the 2001
    consolidated financial statements have been revised to include
    the pro forma disclosures required by the Company’s
    adoption of SFAS 143 and its change in method of accounting
    for methane gas collection systems. Our procedures with respect
    to the disclosures in Note 1 regarding 2001 included
    (a) agreeing the previously reported net income (in total
    and the related earnings per share amount) to the previously
    issued consolidated financial statements and agreeing the
    adjustments, which arose from the Company’s prior
    accounting policies, to the Company’s underlying records
    obtained from management, (b) agreeing the pro forma effect
    of applying SFAS 143 and changing the Company’s method
    of accounting for methane gas systems to analyses prepared by
    management and (c) testing the mathematical accuracy of the
    reconciliation of adjusted net income to previously reported net
    income and the related earnings per share amounts.

(ii) As described in Note 2, the 2001
    consolidated financial statements have been revised to include
    the transitional and other disclosures required by
    SFAS 142, which the Company adopted as of January 1,
    2002. Our audit procedures with respect to the disclosures in
    Note 2 with respect to 2001





(vi) The Company changed its presentation of
    basic and diluted earnings per share in the accompanying 2001
    consolidated statements of income to conform to the 2003 and
    2002 presentation by separately disclosing the basic and diluted
    weighted average common shares outstanding and related basic and
    diluted earnings per share amounts. Our procedures with respect
    to the 2001 weighted average common shares outstanding and
    related basic and diluted earnings per share amounts included
    (a) agreeing the basic and diluted weighted average common
    shares outstanding to analyses prepared by management and
    (b) testing the mathematical accuracy of the computation of
    basic and diluted earnings per share from the corresponding
    reported net income and weighted average common shares
    outstanding amounts.

In our opinion, the adjustments and disclosures
described in (i), (ii), (iii), (iv), (v) and (vi) above are
appropriate and have been properly applied. However, we were not
engaged to audit, review or apply any procedures to the 2001
consolidated financial statements of the Company other than with
respect to such adjustments and disclosures and, accordingly, we
do not express an opinion or any other form of assurance on the
2001 consolidated financial statements taken as a whole.

/s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Fort Lauderdale, Florida

February 3, 2004



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT CERTIFIED PUBLIC
ACCOUNTANTS

To Republic Services, Inc.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated
balance sheets of Republic Services, Inc. (a Delaware
corporation) and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2001 and
2000, and the related consolidated statements of operations,
stockholders’ equity and other comprehensive income, and
cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended
December 31, 2001. These financial statements and the
schedule referred to below are the responsibility of the
Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements and the schedule based on
our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with
auditing standards generally accepted in the United States.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred
to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
position of Republic Services, Inc. and subsidiaries as of
December 31, 2001 and 2000, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the
three-year period ended December 31, 2001, in conformity
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States.

Our audits were made for the purpose of forming
an opinion on the basic financial statements taken as a whole.
The schedule listed in the index to consolidated financial
statements is presented for the purpose of complying with the
Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and is not part
of the basic financial statements. This schedule has been
subjected to the auditing procedures applied in the audits of
the basic financial statements and, in our opinion, fairly
states in all material respects the financial data required to
be set forth therein in relation to the basic financial
statements taken as a whole.

ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

Fort Lauderdale, Florida,

January 30,
2002.

THIS IS A COPY OF THE AUDIT REPORT PREVIOUSLY
ISSUED BY ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP IN CONNECTION WITH REPUBLIC
SERVICES, INC.’S FILING ON FORM 10-K FOR THE YEAR ENDED
DECEMBER 31, 2001. THIS AUDIT REPORT HAS NOT BEEN REISSUED
BY ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP IN CONNECTION WITH THIS FILING ON FORM
10-K AND ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP HAS NOT CONSENTED TO THE INCLUSION
OF THIS AUDIT REPORT IN THIS FORM 10-K.



REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(in millions, except share data)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of
these statements.



REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

(in millions, except earnings per share
data)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of
these statements.



REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’
EQUITY

AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

(in millions)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of
these statements.



REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH
FLOWS

(in millions)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of
these statements.



REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

(All tables in millions, except per share
data)

1.

BASIS OF PRESENTATION

The accompanying Consolidated Financial
Statements include the accounts of Republic Services, Inc. (a
Delaware corporation) and its subsidiaries (the
“Company”). The Company provides non-hazardous solid
waste collection and disposal services in the United States. All
intercompany transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

As of January 1, 2003, the Company adopted
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 143,
“Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations”
(“SFAS 143”). SFAS 143 required the Company
to change the methodology it used to record final capping,
closure and post-closure costs relating to its landfills. As of
January 1, 2003, the Company recorded an after-tax expense
of $20.8 million, or $33.6 million on a pre-tax basis,
as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle
resulting from the adoption of SFAS 143. In addition, the
Company also recorded an after-tax expense of
$17.0 million, or $27.4 million on a pre-tax basis, as
a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle for its
methane gas collection systems. This change in accounting for
methane gas collection systems was prompted by a thorough
evaluation of the Company’s landfill accounting policies in
connection with the adoption of SFAS 143 and is consistent
with the methodology used by other participants in the waste
industry.

The following table summarizes the adjustments to
net income and earnings per share for the years ended
December 31, 2002 and 2001 as if SFAS 143 and the
Company’s change in accounting principle relating to its
methane gas collection systems were effective January 1,
2001:



REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

(All tables in millions, except per share
data) — (Continued)

The following table summarizes the balance sheet
impact of adopting SFAS 143 and the Company’s change
in accounting relating to methane gas collection systems:

Certain amounts in the 2002 and 2001 Consolidated
Financial Statements have been reclassified to conform to the
2003 presentation.

2.

SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING
    POLICIES

Use of Estimates

The financial statements have been prepared in
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States and necessarily include amounts based on estimates
and assumptions made by management. Actual results could differ
from these amounts. Significant items subject to such estimates
and assumptions include the depletion and amortization of
landfill development costs, accruals for final capping, closure
and post-closure costs, valuation allowances for accounts
receivable, liabilities for potential litigation, claims and
assessments, and liabilities for environmental remediation,
income taxes and self-insurance.

Accounts Receivable

Accounts receivable represent receivables from
customers for collection, transfer, disposal and other services.
Receivables are recorded when billed. Accounts receivable, net
of the allowance for doubtful accounts, represents their
estimated net realizable value. Provisions for doubtful accounts
are recorded based on historical collection experience, the age
of the receivables, specific customer information and economic
conditions. In general, reserves are provided for accounts
receivable in excess of 90 days old. Accounts receivable
are written off when they are deemed uncollectible.



REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

(All tables in millions, except per share
data) — (Continued)

Prepaid Expenses and Other Current
Assets

A summary of prepaid expenses and other current
assets is as follows:

Inventories consist primarily of compost, mulch,
and soil materials, equipment parts, and fuel that are valued
under a method that approximates the lower of cost (first-in,
first-out) or market.

The Company expenses substantially all
advertising expenditures as incurred.

Property and Equipment

Property and equipment are recorded at cost.
Expenditures for major additions and improvements to facilities
are capitalized. All expenditures for maintenance and repairs
are charged to expense as incurred. When property is retired or
otherwise disposed of, the related cost and accumulated
depreciation are removed from the accounts and any resulting
gain or loss is reflected in the Consolidated Statements of
Income.

The Company revises the estimated useful lives of
property and equipment acquired through business acquisitions to
conform with its policies regarding property and equipment.
Depreciation is provided over the estimated useful lives of the
assets involved using the straight-line method. The estimated
useful lives are seven to forty years for buildings and
improvements, five to twelve years for vehicles, seven to ten
years for most landfill equipment, three to fifteen years for
all other equipment, and five to twelve years for furniture and
fixtures.

Landfills and landfill improvements are stated at
cost and are amortized or depleted based on consumed airspace.
Landfill improvements include direct costs incurred to obtain
landfill permits and direct costs incurred to acquire, construct
and develop sites. These costs are amortized or depleted based
on consumed airspace. All indirect landfill development costs
are expensed as incurred. (For further information, see
Note 3, Accrued Landfill, Environmental and Legal Costs.)

The Company capitalizes interest on landfill cell
construction and other construction projects in accordance with
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 34,
“Capitalization of Interest Cost.” Construction
projects must meet the following criteria before interest is
capitalized:

1. Total construction costs are $50,000 or
    greater,

2. The construction phase is one month or
    longer, and

3. The assets have a useful life of one year
    or longer.

Interest is capitalized on qualified assets while
they undergo activities to ready them for their intended use.
Capitalization of interest ceases once an asset is placed into
service or if construction activity is suspended for more than a
brief period of time. The interest capitalization rate is based
upon the Company’s weighted



REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

(All tables in millions, except per share
data) — (Continued)

average cost of indebtedness. Interest
capitalized was $3.3 million, $2.5 million and
$3.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2003,
2002 and 2001, respectively.

A summary of property and equipment is as follows:

The Company periodically evaluates whether events
and circumstances have occurred that may warrant revision of the
estimated useful life of property and equipment or whether the
remaining balance of property and equipment should be evaluated
for possible impairment. The following are examples of such
events or changes in circumstances:

There are certain indicators listed above that
require significant judgment and understanding of the waste
industry when applied to landfill development or expansion. For
example, a regulator may initially deny a landfill expansion
permit application though the expansion permit is ultimately
granted. In addition, management may periodically divert waste
from one landfill to another to conserve remaining permitted



REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

(All tables in millions, except per share
data) — (Continued)

landfill airspace. Therefore, certain events
could occur in the ordinary course of business and not
necessarily be considered indicators of impairment due to the
unique nature of the waste industry.

The Company uses an estimate of the related
undiscounted cash flows over the remaining life of the property
and equipment in assessing their recoverability. The Company
measures impairment loss as the amount by which the carrying
amount of the asset exceeds the fair value of the asset.

Included in other charges of $99.6 million
for the year ended December 31, 2001 in the accompanying
Consolidated Financial Statements are write-downs to fixed
assets of $35.6 million for completed and planned
divestitures and closings of certain core and non-core
businesses, and asset impairments.

Intangible Assets

Intangible assets consist of the cost of acquired
businesses in excess of the fair value of net assets acquired
and other intangible assets. Other intangible assets include
values assigned to long-term contracts, covenants not to compete
and customer relationships and are amortized generally over
periods ranging from 3 to 25 years.

The following table summarizes the activity in
the intangible asset and related accumulated amortization
accounts for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2003:



REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

(All tables in millions, except per share
data) — (Continued)

During 2002, the Company adopted Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, “Goodwill and
Other Intangible Assets” (“SFAS 142”). In
accordance with SFAS 142, the Company ceased amortizing
intangibles with indefinite lives effective January 1,
2002. Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 142, cost in excess
of the fair value of net assets acquired was amortized over
40 years on a straight-line basis.

The following table summarizes the adjustments to
net income and earnings per share as if SFAS 142 were
adopted January 1, 2000:

In general, goodwill is tested for impairment on
an annual basis. In testing for impairment, the Company
estimates the fair value of each operating segment and compares
the fair values with the carrying values. If fair value of an
operating segment is greater than its carrying value, then no
impairment results. If fair value is less than carrying value,
then the Company would determine the fair value of the goodwill.
The fair value of goodwill is determined by deducting the fair
value of an operating segment’s identifiable assets and
liabilities from the fair value of the operating segment as a
whole, as if that operating segment had just been acquired and
the purchase price were being initially allocated. If the fair
value of the goodwill were less than its carrying value for a
segment, an impairment charge would be recorded to earnings in
the Company’s Consolidated Statement of Income.



REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

(All tables in millions, except per share
data) — (Continued)

In addition, the Company would evaluate an
operating segment for impairment if events or circumstances
change between annual tests indicating a possible impairment.
Examples of such events or circumstances include:

The Company incurred no impairment of goodwill as
a result of its goodwill impairment test in 2003. However, there
can be no assurance that goodwill will not be impaired at any
time in the future.

Included in other charges of $99.6 million
for the year ended December 31, 2001 in the accompanying
Consolidated Financial Statements are write-downs to intangible
assets of $54.2 million for completed and planned
divestitures of certain core businesses.

Accrued Liabilities

A summary of accrued liabilities is as follows:

Other Current Liabilities

A summary of other current liabilities is as
follows:

Stock Options

The Company accounts for its stock-based
compensation using the intrinsic value method prescribed by
Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,
“Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees”
(“APB 25”) and related Interpretations. No
stock-based employee compensation cost is reflected in net
income, as all options granted under the 1998 Stock Incentive
Plan for the periods presented had an exercise price equal to
the market value of the underlying common stock at the date of
grant. Had compensation cost for stock option



REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

(All tables in millions, except per share
data) — (Continued)

grants under the Company’s Stock Incentive
Plan been determined pursuant to Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 123, “Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation” (“SFAS 123”), the
Company’s net income would have decreased accordingly.
Using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, the Company’s
pro forma net income, earnings per share and weighted-average
fair value of options granted during the period, with related
assumptions, are as follows:

Revenue Recognition and Deferred
Revenue

The Company generally provides services under
contract with municipalities or individual customers. Revenue
consists primarily of collection fees from commercial,
industrial, residential and municipal customers and transfer and
landfill disposal fees charged to third parties. Advance
billings are recorded as deferred revenue, and the revenue is
then recognized over the period services are provided.
Collection, transfer and disposal, and other services accounted
for approximately 75%, 19% and 6%, respectively, of consolidated
revenue for the year ended December 31, 2003. No one
customer has individually accounted for more than 10% of the
Company’s consolidated revenue or of the Company’s
reportable segment revenue in any of the past three years.

The Company recognizes revenue when all four of
the following criteria are met:



REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

(All tables in millions, except per share
data) — (Continued)

Other Charges

During the fourth quarter of 2002, the Company
recorded a $5.6 million gain on the sale of certain assets
for amounts exceeding estimates originally made during the
fourth quarter of 2001.

During the fourth quarter of 2001, the Company
recorded a charge of $86.1 million on an after-tax basis,
or $132.0 million on a pre-tax basis, related to completed
and planned divestitures and closings of certain core and
non-core businesses, asset impairments, downsizing its compost,
mulch and soil business and related inventory adjustments, an
increase in self-insurance reserves and an increase in bad debt
expense related to the economic slowdown. Of the pre-tax amount,
$24.2 million is included in cost of operations in the
accompanying Consolidated Statements of Income,
$8.2 million is included in selling, general and
administrative expenses, and the remaining $99.6 million is
included in other charges.

Income Taxes

The Company accounts for income taxes in
accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes.”
Accordingly, deferred income taxes have been provided to show
the effect of temporary differences between the recognition of
revenue and expenses for financial and income tax reporting
purposes and between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and
their reported amounts in the financial statements.

Comprehensive Income

During the years ended December 31, 2002 and
2001, the Company recorded unrealized gains (losses) of
$2.8 million and $(2.8) million, ($1.7 million
and $(1.7) million, net of tax), respectively, relating to
the change in fair value of its fuel hedge option agreements in
accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 133, “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and
Hedging Activities” (“SFAS 133”), as
amended. (For further information, see Note 11, Fuel
Hedge.) Of these amounts, $1.6 million and
$(1.6) million, net of tax, were recorded to other
comprehensive income (loss) for the years ended
December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The Company had
no other components of other comprehensive income (loss) for the
periods presented.

At December 31, 2003, the Company had
$182.4 million of restricted marketable securities held as
financial guarantees. These securities consist of mutual funds
invested in short-term investment grade securities, including
mortgage-backed securities and U.S. Government obligations.
These securities are available for sale and, as a result, are
stated at fair value based on quoted market prices. During the
year ended December 31, 2003, the Company recorded a
$.1 million unrealized loss, net of tax, to other
comprehensive loss related to the change in fair value of these
securities.

Statements of Cash Flows

The Company considers all unrestricted highly
liquid investments with purchased maturities of three months or
less to be cash equivalents. The effect of non-cash transactions
related to business combinations, as discussed in Note 4,
Business Combinations, and other non-cash transactions are
excluded from the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Cash
Flows.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments

The carrying amounts of cash and cash
equivalents, restricted cash and marketable securities,
receivables, accounts payable and accrued liabilities
approximate fair value due to the short maturity of these
instruments. The fair value of the Company’s fixed rate
unsecured notes using quoted market rates is
$1,158.7 million at December 31, 2003. The carrying
value of the unsecured notes is $1,047.3 million at
December 31, 2003. The



REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

(All tables in millions, except per share
data) — (Continued)

carrying amounts of the Company’s remaining
notes payable and long-term debt approximate fair value because
interest rates are primarily variable and, accordingly,
approximate current market rates.

Concentration of Credit Risk

The Company provides services to commercial,
industrial, municipal and residential customers in the United
States. Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade
receivables are limited due to the wide variety of customers and
markets in which services are provided as well as their
dispersion across many geographic areas in the United States.
The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its
customers, but does not require collateral to support customer
receivables. The Company establishes an allowance for doubtful
accounts based on various factors including the credit risk of
specific customers, age of receivables outstanding, historical
trends, economic conditions and other information.

New Accounting Pronouncements

In January 2003, the Financial Accounting
Standards Board issued Interpretation 46,
“Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities”
(“FIN 46”). FIN 46 introduces a new
consolidation model which determines control and consolidation
based upon the majority beneficiary of the potential variability
in gains and losses of the entity being evaluated. In December
2003, the FASB revised the initial application and certain terms
and exemptions in FIN 46. FIN 46 is currently
effective for all variable interest entities created or modified
after January 31, 2003 and special purpose entities created
on or before January 31, 2003. The interpretation is
effective for all other variable interest entities beginning
March 31, 2004.

The Company has evaluated its organizational
structure and has concluded that the portion of FIN 46 that
is currently effective has no impact on its consolidated
financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In
addition, the Company does not expect the portion of FIN 46
that is effective on March 31, 2004 to have a material
effect on its consolidated financial position, results of
operations or cash flows.

3.

ACCRUED LANDFILL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND LEGAL
    COSTS

Landfill, Environmental And Legal
Costs

A summary of landfill and environmental
liabilities is as follows:

Life Cycle Accounting

The Company uses life cycle accounting and the
units-of-consumption method to recognize certain landfill costs
over the life of the site. In life cycle accounting, all costs
to acquire and construct a site are capitalized and charged to
expense based upon the consumption of cubic yards of available
airspace. Costs and airspace estimates are developed annually by
engineers. These estimates are used by the Company’s
operating and accounting personnel to annually adjust the
Company’s rates used to expense capitalized costs. Changes



REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

(All tables in millions, except per share
data) — (Continued)

in these estimates primarily relate to changes in
available airspace, inflation and applicable regulations.
Changes in available airspace include changes due to the
addition of airspace lying in probable expansion areas.

Total Available Disposal Capacity

As of December 31, 2003, the Company owned
or operated 58 solid waste landfills with total available
disposal capacity of approximately 1.8 billion in-place
cubic yards. Total available disposal capacity represents the
sum of estimated permitted airspace plus an estimate of
expansion airspace that the Company believes has a probable
likelihood of being permitted.

Probable Expansion Airspace

Before airspace included in an expansion area is
determined as probable expansion airspace and, therefore,
included in the Company’s calculation of total available
disposal capacity, the following criteria must be met:

Upon meeting the Company’s expansion
criteria, the rates used at each applicable landfill to expense
costs to acquire, construct, close and maintain a site during
the post-closure period are adjusted to include probable
expansion airspace and all additional costs to be capitalized or
accrued associated with the expansion airspace.

The Company has identified three sequential steps
that landfills generally follow to obtain expansion permits.
These steps are as follows:

1.

Obtaining approval from local authorities;

2.

Submitting a permit application to state
    authorities; and

3.

Obtaining permit approval from state authorities.

Once a landfill meets the Company’s
expansion criteria, management continuously monitors each
site’s progress in obtaining the expansion permit. If at
any point it is determined that an expansion area no longer
meets the required criteria, the probable expansion airspace is
removed from the landfill’s total available capacity and
the rates used at the landfill to expense costs to acquire,
construct, cap, close and maintain a site during the
post-closure period are adjusted accordingly.

Capitalized Landfill Costs

Capitalized landfill costs include expenditures
for land, permitting costs, cell construction costs and
environmental structures. Capitalized permitting and cell
construction costs are limited to direct costs relating



REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

(All tables in millions, except per share
data) — (Continued)

to these activities, including legal, engineering
and construction associated with excavation, liners and site
berms. Interest is capitalized on landfill construction projects
while the assets are undergoing activities to ready them for
their intended use.

Costs related to acquiring land, excluding the
estimated residual value of unpermitted, non-buffer land, and
costs related to permitting and cell construction are depleted
as airspace is consumed using the units-of-consumption method.

Capitalized landfill costs may also include an
allocation of purchase price paid for landfills. For landfills
purchased as part of a group of several assets, the purchase
price assigned to the landfill is determined based upon the
discounted expected future cash flows of the landfill relative
to the other assets within the acquired group. If the landfill
meets the Company’s expansion criteria, the purchase price
is further allocated between permitted airspace and expansion
airspace based upon the ratio of permitted versus probable
expansion airspace to total available airspace. Landfill
purchase price is amortized using the units-of-consumption
method over the total available airspace including probable
expansion airspace where appropriate.

Final Capping, Closure and Post-Closure
Costs

On January 1, 2003, the Company changed the
methodology it used to record final capping, closure and
post-closure expense in accordance with SFAS 143.
SFAS 143 does not change the basic landfill accounting
policies followed by the Company and others in the waste
industry. Through December 31, 2002, the industry has
generally amortized capitalized costs and accrued future final
capping, closure and post-closure obligations using the
units-of-consumption method as cubic yards of available airspace
are consumed over the life of the related landfill. This
practice is referred to as life cycle accounting and will
continue to be followed except as modified by SFAS 143 as
discussed below.

The table below reflects significant changes
between the Company’s historical methodology and the
methodology the Company currently uses to account for final
capping, closure and post-closure activities and for methane gas
collection systems:



REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

(All tables in millions, except per share
data) — (Continued)



REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

(All tables in millions, except per share
data) — (Continued)

The Company has future obligations for final
capping, closure and post-closure costs with respect to the
landfills it owns or operates as set forth in applicable
landfill permits. Final capping, closure and post-closure costs
include estimated costs to be incurred for final capping and
closure of landfills and estimated costs for providing required
post-closure monitoring and maintenance of landfills. The permit
requirements are based on the Subtitle C and
Subtitle D regulations of the Resource Conservation and
Recovery Act (RCRA), as implemented and applied on a
state-by-state basis. Obligations associated with monitoring and
controlling methane gas migration and emissions are set forth in
applicable landfill permits and these requirements are based
upon the provisions of the Clean Air Act of 1970, as amended.
Final capping typically includes installing flexible membrane
and geosynthetic clay liners, drainage and compact soil layers,
and topsoil, and is constructed over an area of the landfill
where total airspace capacity has been consumed and waste
disposal operations have ceased. These final capping activities
occur throughout the operating life of a landfill. Other closure
activities and post-closure activities occur after the entire
landfill ceases to accept waste and closes. These activities
involve methane gas control, leachate management and groundwater
monitoring, surface water monitoring and control, and other
operational and maintenance activities that occur after the site
ceases to accept waste. The post-closure period generally runs
for up to 30 years after final site closure for municipal
solid waste landfills and a shorter period for construction and
demolition landfills and inert landfills.

Estimates of future expenditures for final
capping, closure and post-closure are developed annually by
engineers. These estimates are reviewed by management at least
annually and are used by the Company’s operating and
accounting personnel to adjust the rates used to capitalize and
amortize these costs. These estimates involve projections of
costs that will be incurred after the landfill ceases operations
and during the legally required post-closure monitoring period.
Additionally, the Company currently retains post-closure
responsibility for several closed landfills.

Under SFAS 143, a liability for an asset
retirement obligation must be recognized in the period in which
it is incurred and should be initially measured at fair value.
Absent quoted market prices, the estimate of fair value should
be based on the best available information, including the
results of present value techniques in accordance with Statement
of Financial Accounting Concepts No. 7, “Using Cash
Flow and Present Value in Accounting Measurements”
(“SFAC 7”). The offset to the liability must be
capitalized as part of the carrying amount of the related
long-lived asset. Changes in the liability due to the passage of
time are recognized as operating items in the income statement
and are referred to as accretion expense. Changes in the
liability due to revisions to estimated future cash flows are
recognized by increasing or decreasing the liability with the
offset adjusting the carrying amount of the related long-lived
asset.

In applying the provisions of SFAS 143, a
landfill’s asset retirement obligation includes estimates
of all costs related to final capping, closure and post-closure.
Costs associated with a landfill’s daily maintenance
activities during the operating life of the landfill, such as
leachate disposal, groundwater and gas monitoring, and other
pollution control activities, continue to be charged to expense
as incurred. In addition, costs



REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

(All tables in millions, except per share
data) — (Continued)

historically accounted for as capital
expenditures during the operating life of a landfill, such as
cell development costs, continue to be capitalized when
incurred, and charged to expense using life cycle accounting and
the units-of-consumption method based on the consumption of
cubic yards of available airspace.

The Company defines final capping as activities
required to permanently cover a portion of a landfill that has
been completely filled with waste. Final capping occurs in
phases throughout the life of a landfill as specific areas are
filled to capacity and the final elevation for that specific
area is reached in accordance with the provisions of the
operating permit. The Company considers final capping events to
be discrete activities that are recognized as asset retirement
obligations separately from other closure and post-closure
obligations. These capping events occur generally during the
operating life of a landfill and can be associated with waste
actually placed under an area to be capped. As a result, the
Company uses a separate rate per ton for recognizing the
principal amount of the liability and related asset associated
with each capping event. The Company amortizes the asset
recorded pursuant to this approach as waste volume equivalent to
the capacity covered by the capping event is placed into the
landfill based upon the consumption of cubic yards of available
airspace covered by the capping event.

The Company recognizes asset retirement
obligations and the related amortization expense for closure and
post-closure (excluding obligations for final capping) using the
units-of-consumption method over the total remaining capacity of
the landfill. The total remaining capacity includes probable
expansion airspace.

In general, the Company relies on third parties
to fulfill most of its obligations for final capping, closure
and post-closure. Accordingly, the fair market value of these
obligations is based upon quoted and actual prices paid for
similar work. The Company does intend to perform some of its
final capping, closure and post-closure obligations using
internal resources. Where internal resources are expected to be
used to fulfill an asset retirement obligation, the Company has
added a profit margin onto the estimated cost of such services
to better reflect their fair market value as required by
SFAS 143. These services primarily relate to managing
construction activities during final capping, and maintenance
activities during closure and post-closure. If the Company does
perform these services internally, the added profit margin would
be recognized as a component of operating income in the period
in which the obligations are settled.

SFAC 7 states that an estimate of fair value
should include the price that marketplace participants are able
to receive for bearing the uncertainties in cash flows. However,
when utilizing discounted cash flow techniques, reliable
estimates of market premiums may not be obtainable. In this
situation, SFAC 7 indicates that it is not necessary to
consider a market risk premium in the determination of expected
cash flows. While the cost of asset retirement obligations
associated with final capping, closure and post-closure can be
quantified and estimated, there is not an active market that can
be utilized to determine the fair value of these activities. In
the case of the waste industry, no market exists for selling the
responsibility for final capping, closure and post-closure
independent of selling the landfill in its entirety.
Accordingly, the Company believes that it is not possible to
develop a methodology to reliably estimate a market risk premium
and has excluded a market risk premium from its determination of
expected cash flow for landfill asset retirement obligations in
accordance with SFAC 7.

Under SFAS 143, the primary modification to
the Company’s historical methodology is to require that
final capping, closure and post-closure costs be inflated and
discounted to present value. The Company’s estimates of
future final capping, closure and post-closure costs
historically have not taken into account discounts for the
present value of costs to be paid in the future. Consequently,
the amount of expense (accretion expense plus amortization
expense) will be higher in the later years of a landfill’s
life than in earlier years.



REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

(All tables in millions, except per share
data) — (Continued)

The Company’s estimates of costs to
discharge asset retirement obligations for landfills are
developed in today’s dollars. These costs are inflated each
year to reflect a normal escalation of prices up to the year
they are expected to be paid. The Company uses a 2.5% inflation
rate, which is based upon the ten year average increase in the
consumer price index and is the rate used by most waste industry
participants.

These estimated costs are then discounted to
their present value using a credit-adjusted, risk-free rate. The
Company’s credit-adjusted, risk-free rate was determined to
be 6.75% based upon the estimated all-in yield the Company
believes it would need to offer to sell thirty-year debt in the
public market. Changes in asset retirement obligations due to
the passage of time are measured by recognizing accretion
expense in a manner that results in a constant effective
interest rate applied to the average carrying amount of the
liability. The effective interest rate used to calculate
accretion expense is the Company’s credit-adjusted,
risk-free rate.

In accordance with SFAS 143, changes due to
revision of the estimates of the amount or timing of the
original undiscounted cash flows used to record a liability are
recognized by increasing or decreasing the carrying amount of
the asset retirement obligation liability and the carrying
amount of the related asset. Upward revisions in the amount of
undiscounted estimated cash flows used to record a liability
must be discounted using the credit-adjusted, risk-free rate in
effect at the time of the change. Downward revisions in the
amount of undiscounted estimated cash flows used to record a
liability must be discounted using the credit-adjusted,
risk-free rate that existed when the original liability was
recognized.

The Company intends to annually review its
calculations with respect to landfill asset retirement
obligations unless there is a significant change in the facts
and circumstances related to a landfill during the year, in
which case the Company will review its calculations after the
significant change has occurred.

The following table summarizes the actual
activity in the Company’s asset retirement obligation
liabilities for the year ended December 31, 2003 and the
pro forma activity for the years ended December 31, 2003
and 2002 assuming SFAS 143 was effective as of
January 1, 2002:

The following table summarizes the activity in
the Company’s accrued closure and post-closure account for
the year ended December 31, 2002 (prior to the adoption of
SFAS 143):



REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

(All tables in millions, except per share
data) — (Continued)

The expected future payments for final capping,
closure and post-closure costs as of December 31, 2003 are
as follows:

Remediation

The Company accrues for remediation costs when
they become probable and reasonably estimatable. Substantially
all of the Company’s recorded remediation costs are for
incremental landfill post-closure care required under approved
remediation action plans for acquired landfills. Remediation
costs are estimated by engineers based upon site remediation
plans. These estimates do not take into account discounts for
the present value of total estimated costs. Management believes
that the amounts accrued for remediation costs are adequate.
However, a significant increase in the estimated costs for
remediation could have a material adverse effect on the
Company’s financial position, results of operations or cash
flows.

The expected future payments for remediation
costs as of December 31, 2003 are as follows:

Environmental Costs

In the normal course of business, the Company is
subject to ongoing environmental investigations by certain
regulatory agencies, as well as other claims and disputes that
could result in litigation. Environmental costs are accrued by
the Company through a charge to income in the period such
liabilities become probable and can be reasonably estimated. No
material amounts were charged to expense during the years ended
December 31, 2003, 2002, and 2001.

4.

BUSINESS COMBINATIONS

The Company acquires businesses as part of its
growth strategy. Businesses acquired are accounted for under the
purchase method of accounting and are included in the
Consolidated Financial Statements from the date of acquisition.
The Company allocates the cost of the acquired business to the
assets acquired and the liabilities assumed based on estimates
of fair values thereof. These estimates are revised during the
allocation period as necessary if, and when, information
regarding contingencies becomes available to further define and



REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

(All tables in millions, except per share
data) — (Continued)

quantify assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
The allocation period generally does not exceed one year. To the
extent contingencies such as preacquisition environmental
matters, litigation and related legal fees are resolved or
settled during the allocation period, such items are included in
the revised allocation of the purchase price. After the
allocation period, the effect of changes in such contingencies
is included in results of operations in the periods in which the
adjustments are determined. The Company does not believe
potential differences between its fair value estimates and
actual fair values are material.

The Company acquired various solid waste
businesses during the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002
and 2001. The aggregate purchase price paid for these
transactions was $51.5 million, $55.8 million and
$287.7 million, respectively.

During 2003, 2002 and 2001, $27.7 million,
$5.1 million and $62.6 million, respectively, of the
total purchase price paid for acquisitions and contingent
payments to former owners was allocated to landfill airspace.
For landfills purchased as part of a group of several assets,
the allocations of purchase price were based on the discounted
expected future cash flow of each landfill relative to other
assets within the acquired group and were adjusted for other
non-depletable landfill assets and liabilities acquired
(primarily final capping, closure and post-closure liabilities).
Landfill purchase price is amortized using the
units-of-consumption method over total available airspace, which
includes probable expansion airspace where appropriate, and is
included in property and equipment, net in the accompanying
Consolidated Balance Sheets.

The following summarizes the preliminary purchase
price allocations for business combinations accounted for under
the purchase method of accounting:

Substantially all of the intangible assets
recorded for these acquisitions are deductible for tax purposes.

The Company’s unaudited pro forma
consolidated results of operations assuming all significant
acquisitions during 2003 accounted for under the purchase method
of accounting had occurred at the beginning of the periods
presented are as follows:

The unaudited pro forma results of operations are
presented for informational purposes only and may not
necessarily reflect the future results of operations of the
Company or what the results of operations would have been had
the Company owned and operated these businesses as of the
beginning of the periods presented.



REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

(All tables in millions, except per share
data) — (Continued)

5.

DEBT

Notes payable and long-term debt are as follows:

Aggregate maturities of notes payable and
long-term debt as of December 31, 2003 (excluding discounts
and adjustments to fair market value from hedging transactions)
are as follows:

As of December 31, 2003, the Company had
approximately $326.3 million of availability under its
revolving credit facility.

As of December 31, 2003, the Company had
$215.0 million of restricted cash of which
$104.6 million were proceeds from the issuance of
tax-exempt bonds and other tax-exempt financing and will be used
to fund



REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

(All tables in millions, except per share
data) — (Continued)

capital expenditures. Restricted cash also
includes amounts held in trust as a financial guarantee of the
Company’s performance.

The Company made interest payments on notes
payable and long-term debt of approximately $78.4 million,
$75.9 million and $70.4 million (net of capitalized
interest of $3.3 million, $2.5 million and
$3.3 million) for the years ended December 31, 2003,
2002 and 2001, respectively.

In August 2001, the Company sold
$450.0 million of public notes, which have a fixed coupon
rate of 6 3/4% and mature in 2011. Proceeds from these
notes were used to repay the Company’s revolving credit
facility.

The Company’s ability to obtain financing
through the capital markets is a key component of its financial
strategy. Historically, the Company has managed risk associated
with executing this strategy, particularly as it relates to
fluctuations in interest rates, by using a combination of fixed
and floating rate debt. The Company also entered into interest
rate swap agreements to manage risk associated with fluctuations
in interest rates and to take advantage of favorable floating
interest rates. The swap agreements have total notional values
of $225.0 million and $105.0 million, respectively,
and mature in 2004 and 2011, respectively. These maturities are
identical to the Company’s public notes that were sold in
1999 and 2001, respectively. Under the swap agreements, the
Company pays interest at floating rates based on changes in
LIBOR and receives interest at fixed rates of 6 5/8% and
6 3/4%, respectively. The Company has designated these
agreements as hedges in changes in the fair value of the
Company’s fixed-rate debt and accounts for them in
accordance with SFAS 133. The Company has determined that
these agreements qualify for the short-cut method under
SFAS 133 and, therefore, changes in the fair value of the
agreements are assumed to be perfectly effective in hedging
changes in the fair value of the Company’s fixed rate debt
due to changes in interest rates.

As of December 31, 2003, interest rate swap
agreements are reflected at fair market value of
$3.3 million and are included in prepaids and other current
assets and as an adjustment to short-term debt in the
accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. During the years ended
December 31, 2003 and 2002, the Company recorded net
interest income of $10.0 million and $5.8 million,
respectively, related to its interest rate swap agreements which
is included in interest expense in the accompanying Consolidated
Statements of Income.

The unsecured revolving credit facility requires
the Company to maintain certain financial ratios and comply with
certain financial covenants. At December 31, 2003, the
Company was in compliance with the financial covenants under
these agreements.

6.

INCOME TAXES

The components of the provision for income taxes
are as follows:

In December 2003, the Company received written
approval from the Internal Revenue Service to exclude probable
expansion airspace from its calculation of landfill
amortization, depletion, and final capping, closure and
post-closure costs for tax purposes. As a result of this change,
the Company’s deferred income tax



REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

(All tables in millions, except per share
data) — (Continued)

provision increased by approximately
$82.0 million during 2003, and the Company recorded a tax
receivable of approximately $48.0 million.

A reconciliation of the statutory federal income
tax rate to the Company’s effective tax rate is shown below:

Components of the net deferred income tax
liability in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets are as
follows:

In assessing the realizability of deferred tax
assets, management considers whether it is more likely than not
that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be
realized. The Company adjusts the valuation allowance, if any,
in the period management determines it is more likely than not
that deferred tax assets will or will not be realized.

The Company made income tax payments of
approximately $17.7 million, $69.3 million and
$109.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2003,
2002 and 2001, respectively.

Through the date of the Company’s initial
public offering of common stock in July 1998, the Company filed
consolidated federal income tax returns with AutoNation Inc.
(“AutoNation”), its former parent company. The
Internal Revenue Service is auditing AutoNation’s
consolidated tax returns for fiscal years 1997 through 1998. In
accordance with the Company’s tax sharing agreement with
AutoNation, the Company may be liable for certain assessments
imposed by the Internal Revenue Service for the periods through
June 1998, resulting from this audit. In addition, the Internal
Revenue Service is auditing the Company’s consolidated tax
returns for fiscal years 1998 through 2000. Management believes
that the tax liabilities recorded are adequate. However, a
significant assessment in excess of liabilities recorded against
the Company could have a material adverse effect on the
Company’s financial position, results of operations or cash
flows.



REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

(All tables in millions, except per share
data) — (Continued)

7.

STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

During 2000 through 2003 the Board of Directors
authorized the repurchase of up to $675.0 million of the
Company’s Common Stock. As of December 31, 2003, the
Company had paid $484.3 million to repurchase
25.6 million shares of its Common Stock.

In July 2003, the Company announced that its
board of directors initiated a quarterly cash dividend of
$.06 per share. In October 2003, the Company paid a
dividend of $9.6 million to shareholders of record as of
September 30, 2003. As of December 31, 2003 the
Company recorded a dividend payable of approximately
$9.4 million to shareholders of record at the close of
business on January 2, 2004.

8.

EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

In July 1998, the Company adopted the 1998 Stock
Incentive Plan (“Stock Incentive Plan”) to provide for
grants of options to purchase shares of Common Stock, restricted
stock and other equity-based compensation to employees and
non-employee directors of the Company who are eligible to
participate in the Stock Incentive Plan. Options granted under
the Stock Incentive Plan are non-qualified and are granted at a
price equal to the fair market value of the Company’s
Common Stock at the date of grant. Generally, options granted
have a term of ten years from the date of grant, and vest in
increments of 25% per year over a four year period
beginning on the first anniversary date of the grant. Options
granted to non-employee directors have a term of ten years and
vest immediately at the date of grant. In May 2002, the
Company’s stockholders approved and adopted an amendment
and restatement of the Stock Incentive Plan, which modified a
number of its provisions, including an increase in the number of
shares of Common Stock reserved for issuance under the Stock
Incentive Plan from 20.0 million to 27.0 million. As
of December 31, 2003, there were 7.5 million stock
options reserved for future grants under the Stock Incentive
Plan.

The following table summarizes stock option
activity for the years ended 2001, 2002 and 2003:



REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

(All tables in millions, except per share
data) — (Continued)

The following table summarizes information about
the Company’s outstanding and exercisable stock options at
December 31, 2003:

The Company applies Accounting Principles Board
Opinion No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees,” in accounting for stock-based employee
compensation arrangements whereby no compensation cost related
to stock options is deducted in determining net income.

The Company also maintains the Republic Services
401(k) Plan (the “Plan”), which is a defined
contribution plan covering all eligible employees. Under the
provisions of the Plan, participants may direct the Company to
defer a portion of their compensation to the Plan, subject to a
maximum of 15% of eligible compensation, as defined. In general,
the Company provides matching contributions of 50% of the amount
contributed by each participant up to 4% of the employee’s
salary. The employer match is generally made in shares of the
Company’s common stock. Both employee and Company
contributions vest immediately. During 2003, the Company
contributed shares of its common stock valued at
$3.0 million to the Plan.

9.

EARNINGS PER SHARE

Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing
net income by the weighted average number of common shares
outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share is
based on the combined weighted average number of common shares
and common share equivalents outstanding which include, where
appropriate, the assumed exercise of employee stock options. In
computing diluted earnings per share, the Company utilizes the
treasury stock method.

Earnings per share is calculated as follows:



REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

(All tables in millions, except per share
data) — (Continued)

10.

SEGMENT INFORMATION

The Company’s operations are managed and
evaluated through five regions: Eastern, Central, Southern,
Southwestern and Western. These five regions are presented below
as the Company’s reportable segments. These reportable
segments provide integrated waste management services consisting
of collection, transfer and disposal of domestic non-hazardous
solid waste.

Summarized financial information concerning the
Company’s reportable segments for the respective years
ended December 31 is shown in the following table. During
2001, the Company presented one reportable segment. Information
for 2001 has been restated to conform to the current year
presentation.

(a)

Corporate functions include legal, tax, treasury,
    information technology, risk management, human resources,
    national accounts and other typical administrative functions.
    The decrease in operating income from Corporate Entities from
    2002 to 2003 is due primarily to an increase in self-insurance
    expense. During 2001, operating income from Corporate Entities
    includes $12.2 million of charges related primarily to
    increases in self-insurance reserves and bad debt expense.



REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

(All tables in millions, except per share
data) — (Continued)

(b)

Intercompany operating revenue reflects
    transactions within and between segments and are generally made
    on a basis intended to reflect the market value of such services.

(c)

Effective January 1, 2002, upon the adoption
    of SFAS 142, the Company ceased amortizing intangibles with
    indefinite lives. In addition, effective January 1, 2003,
    the Company adopted SFAS 143. (See Note 2, Summary of
    Significant Accounting Policies, for further information.)

(d)

Capital expenditures for 2002 exclude
    $72.6 million used to purchase equipment consisting
    primarily of revenue-producing vehicles originally placed into
    service pursuant to an operating lease.

Goodwill is the cost of acquired businesses in
excess of the fair value of net assets acquired. The activity in
goodwill, net of accumulated amortization, during 2003 and 2002
is as follows:



REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

(All tables in millions, except per share
data) — (Continued)

Total revenue of the Company by revenue source
for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 is as
follows:

11.

FUEL HEDGE

During June 2001, the Company entered into
option agreements for approximately 14.3 million gallons of
heating oil. Under SFAS 133, the options qualified for and
were designated as effective hedges of changes in the prices of
forecasted diesel fuel purchases. These option agreements
settled each month in equal notional amounts through
December 2002. The option agreements were structured as
zero-cost collars indexed to the price of heating oil. These
option agreements expired in December 2002. In accordance with
SFAS 133, $1.6 million and ($1.6) million
representing the effective portion of the change in fair value
for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001,
respectively, net of tax, has been recorded in
stockholders’ equity as a component of accumulated other
comprehensive income. The ineffective portion of the change in
fair value was a gain of approximately $.1 million and
$(.1) million for the years ended December 31, 2002
and 2001, respectively, and has been included in other income
(expense), net in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of
Income. Realized losses of $.8 million and $.6 million
related to these option agreements are included in cost of
operations in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of
Income for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001,
respectively.

12.

COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

Legal Proceedings

The Company is a party to various general legal
proceedings which have arisen in the ordinary course of
business. While the results of these matters cannot be predicted
with certainty, the Company believes that losses, if any,
resulting from the ultimate resolution of these matters will not
have a material adverse effect on the Company’s
consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash
flows. However, unfavorable resolution could affect the
consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash
flows for the quarterly periods in which they are resolved.



REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

(All tables in millions, except per share
data) — (Continued)

Lease Commitments

During December 1999, the Company entered
into a $100.0 million operating lease facility established
to finance the acquisition of operating equipment (primarily
revenue-producing vehicles). In July 2002, the Company
exercised its right to purchase the equipment underlying this
facility by paying $72.6 million. In addition, the Company
and its subsidiaries lease real property, equipment and software
under various other operating leases with terms from one to
twenty-five years. Rent expense during the years ended
December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 was approximately
$11.4 million, $20.0 million and $27.5 million,
respectively.

Future minimum lease obligations under
non-cancelable real property, equipment and software leases with
initial terms in excess of one year at December 31, 2003
are as follows:

Unconditional Purchase Commitments

Future minimum payments under unconditional
purchase commitments at December 31, 2003 are as follows:

Unconditional purchase commitments consist
primarily of long-term disposal agreements that require the
Company to dispose of a minimal number of tons at third party
facilities.

Liability Insurance

The Company carries general liability, vehicle
liability, employment practices liability, pollution liability,
directors and officers liability, worker’s compensation and
employer’s liability coverage, as well as umbrella
liability policies to provide excess coverage over the
underlying limits contained in these primary policies. The
Company also carries property insurance.

The Company’s insurance programs for
worker’s compensation, general liability, vehicle liability
and employee-related health care benefits are effectively
self-insured. Claims in excess of self-insurance levels are



REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

(All tables in millions, except per share
data) — (Continued)

fully insured subject to policy limits. Accruals
are based on claims filed and estimates of claims incurred but
not reported.

During 2003, the Company experienced an increase
in expense associated with self-insurance. This increase was
attributable to the expansion of the Company’s operations
and various changes in estimates as a result of continued
negative trends through the current policy year, based upon
recent actuarial claims experience, expected claims development
and medical cost inflation.

The Company’s liabilities for unpaid and
incurred but not reported claims at December 31, 2003 was
$122.2 million under its current risk management program
and are included in other current and other liabilities in the
accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. While the ultimate
amount of claims incurred are dependent on future developments,
in management’s opinion, recorded reserves are adequate to
cover the future payment of claims. However, it is reasonably
possible that recorded reserves may not be adequate to cover the
future payment of claims. Adjustments, if any, to estimates
recorded resulting from ultimate claim payments will be
reflected in results of operations in the periods in which such
adjustments are known.

Guarantees of Subsidiary Debt

The Company has guaranteed the tax-exempt bonds
of its subsidiaries. If a subsidiary fails to meet its
obligations associated with tax-exempt bonds as they come due,
the Company will be required to perform under the related
guarantee agreement. No additional liability has been recorded
for these guarantees because the underlying obligations are
reflected in the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets.
(For further information, see Note 5, Debt).

Restricted Cash and Marketable Securities, and
Other Financial Guarantees

In the normal course of business, the Company is
required by regulatory agencies, governmental entities and
contract parties to post performance bonds, letters of credit
and/or cash deposits as financial guarantees of the
Company’s performance. At December 31, 2003, letters
of credit totaling $455.5 million were outstanding, and
surety bonds totaling $341.6 million were outstanding,
which will expire on various dates through 2015.

At December 31, 2003, the Company had
$215.0 million of restricted cash deposits and
$182.4 million of restricted marketable securities held as
financial guarantees, including $104.6 million of
restricted cash held for capital expenditures under certain debt
facilities, and $40.5 million and $182.4 million of
restricted cash and restricted marketable securities,
respectively, pledged to regulatory agencies and governmental
entities as financial guarantees of the Company’s
performance related to its final capping, closure and
post-closure obligations at its landfills. The Company’s
restricted marketable securities consist of mutual funds
invested in short-term investment grade securities, including
mortgage-backed securities and U.S. Government obligations.
The Company intends to liquidate a portion of these marketable
securities and use the proceeds to repay the $225.0 million
of public notes, which mature in May 2004. The Company also
intends to use letters of credit to replace the financial
guarantees secured by marketable securities to be liquidated.

Other Matters

The Company’s business activities are
conducted in the context of a developing and changing statutory
and regulatory framework. Governmental regulation of the waste
management industry requires the Company to obtain and retain
numerous governmental permits to conduct various aspects of its
operations. These permits are subject to revocation,
modification or denial. The costs and other capital expenditures
which may be required to obtain or retain the applicable permits
or comply with applicable regulations could be significant. Any
revocation, modification or denial of permits could have a
material adverse effect on the Company.



REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

(All tables in millions, except per share
data) — (Continued)

13.

RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

It is the Company’s policy that transactions
with related parties must be on terms that, on the whole, are no
less favorable than those that would be available from
unaffiliated parties. It is management’s belief that all of
these transactions met that standard at the time such
transactions were effected.

In January 2001, the Company purchased a
Lear Jet 55 from AutoNation for approximately
$4.7 million which the Company believes approximated its
fair market value. Two of the Company’s directors,
H. Wayne Huizenga and Harris W. Hudson, are directors
of AutoNation.

14.

QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION
    (UNAUDITED)

The following is an analysis of certain items in
the Consolidated Statements of Income by quarter for 2003 and
2002:

During 2003, the Company experienced an increase
in expense associated with self-insurance. This increase was
attributable to the expansion of the Company’s operations
and various changes in estimates as a result of continued
negative trends through the current policy year, based upon
recent actuarial claims experience, expected claims development
and medical cost inflation. The majority of the increase in
self-insurance expense was recorded during the third quarter of
2003.

The Company’s operating results for 2002
include a $5.6 million gain on the sale of certain assets
for amounts exceeding estimates originally made during the
fourth quarter of 2001.



ITEM  9.

CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS
    ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.

ITEM  9A.

CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

Disclosure Controls and Procedures

We carried out an evaluation, under the
supervision and with the participation of our management,
including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer, of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and
procedures as of the end of the period covered by this Annual
Report. Based upon that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer
and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure
controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the
period covered by this Annual Report in accumulating and
communicating to our management, including our Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer, material information
required to be included in the reports we file or submit under
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as appropriate to allow
timely decisions regarding required disclosure.

Changes in Internal Control Over Financial
Reporting

Based on an evaluation, under the supervision and
with the participation of our management, including our Chief
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, there has been no
change in our internal control over financial reporting during
our last fiscal quarter, identified in connection with that
evaluation, that has materially affected, or is reasonably
likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial
reporting.



PART III

The information required by Items 10, 11, 12
(except for the information required by Item 201(d) of
Regulation S-K), 13 and 14 of Part III of
Form 10-K will be set forth in the Proxy Statement of the
Company relating to the 2004 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and
is incorporated by reference herein.

ITEM  12.

SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL
    OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

The following table sets forth certain
information regarding equity compensation plans as of
December, 31, 2003 (number of securities in millions):



PART IV

ITEM 15.

EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE AND
    REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a) The following documents are filed as
part of this report:

1. All Financial Statements:

The following financial statements are filed as
    part of this report under Item 8 — Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data.

2. Financial Statement Schedules:

Schedule II — Valuation and
    Qualifying Accounts and Reserves, for each of the Three Years
    Ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001.

All other schedules are omitted as the required
    information is not applicable or the information is presented in
    the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto in
    Item 8 above.

3. Exhibits:

The following exhibits are filed herewith or are
    incorporated by reference to exhibits previously filed with the
    Commission, as indicated in the description of each. We agree to
    furnish to the Commission upon request a copy of any instrument
    with respect to long-term debt not filed herewith as to which
    the total amount of securities authorized thereunder does not
    exceed 10 percent of our total assets on a consolidated
    basis.





*

Indicates a management contract or compensatory
    plan, contract or arrangement.

(b) Reports on Form 8-K:

Form 8-K, dated November 3, 2003, filed
under Item 5, including a press release announcing the
Company’s Board of Directors had approved increases in the
Company’s common stock repurchase program.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has
duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

REGISTRANT:

REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

By:

/s/ JAMES E. O’CONNOR

James E. O’Connor

Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive
    Officer

(principal executive officer)

March 11, 2004

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed by the
following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the
capacities and on the dates indicated.



REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND
RESERVES

SCHEDULE II

(in millions)

(1)

Allowance of acquired and divested businesses, net



EXHIBIT INDEX