ITEM 1.    BUSINESS

GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS

Abbott Laboratories is an Illinois corporation, incorporated in 1900. Abbott's* principal business is the discovery, development,
manufacture, and sale of a broad and diversified line of health care products.

FINANCIAL INFORMATION RELATING TO INDUSTRY SEGMENTS, GEOGRAPHIC AREAS, AND CLASSES OF SIMILAR PRODUCTS

Incorporated herein by reference is Note 14 entitled "Segment and Geographic Area Information" of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements included under Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data."

NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

Abbott has four reportable segments: Established Pharmaceutical Products, Diagnostic Products, Nutritional Products, and Vascular
Products. Prior to January 1, 2013, Abbott had five reportable segments, which included Proprietary Pharmaceutical Products.

On
January 1, 2013, Abbott completed the separation of its research-based proprietary pharmaceuticals business through the distribution of the issued and outstanding common stock
of AbbVie Inc. (AbbVie) to Abbott's shareholders. AbbVie was formed to hold Abbott's research-based proprietary pharmaceuticals business and, as a result of the distribution, is now an
independent public company trading under the symbol "ABBV" on the New York Stock Exchange.

The
historical operating results of the research-based proprietary pharmaceuticals business prior to separation are excluded from Earnings from Continuing Operations and are presented on
the Earnings from Discontinued Operations line in Abbott's Consolidated Statement of Earnings. The assets, liabilities, and cash flows of the research-based proprietary pharmaceuticals business are
included in Abbott's Consolidated Balance Sheet and its Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for periods prior to January 1, 2013.



*As
used throughout the text of this report on Form 10-K, the term "Abbott" refers to Abbott Laboratories, an Illinois corporation, or Abbott
Laboratories and its consolidated subsidiaries, as the context requires.








Established Pharmaceutical Products

These products include a broad line of branded generic pharmaceuticals manufactured worldwide and marketed and sold outside the United
States, and are generally sold directly to wholesalers, distributors, government agencies, health care facilities, pharmacies, and independent retailers from Abbott-owned distribution centers and
public warehouses, depending on the market served. Certain products are co-marketed or co-promoted with other companies.

The
principal products included in the broad therapeutic area portfolios of the Established Pharmaceutical Products segment are:

•gastroenterology products, including Creon®, for the treatment of pancreatic exocrine insufficiency associated
with several underlying conditions, including cystic fibrosis and chronic pancreatitis; Duspatal® and Dicetel®, for the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome or biliary spasm;
Adomet®, Heptral®, Transmetil®, Samyr®, and Donamet®, for the treatment of intrahepatic cholestasis (associated with liver disease) or
depressive symptoms; and Duphalac®, for regulation of the physiological rhythm of the colon;•women's health products, including Duphaston®, for the treatment of many different gynecological disorders;
and Femoston®, a hormone replacement therapy for postmenopausal women;•cardiovascular and metabolic products, including Lipanthyl® and TriCor®, for the treatment of
dyslipidemia; Teveten® and Teveten® Plus, for the treatment of essential hypertension, and Physiotens®, for the treatment of hypertension; and
Synthroid®, for the treatment of hypothyroidism;•pain and central nervous system products, including Serc®, for the treatment of
Ménière's disease and vestibular vertigo; and Brufen®, for the treatment of pain, fever, and inflammation; and•respiratory drugs and vaccines, including the anti-infective clarithromycin (sold under the trademarks
Biaxin®, Klacid®, and Klaricid®); and Influvac®, an influenza vaccine available during flu season.

The
Established Pharmaceutical Products segment directs its primary marketing efforts toward building a strong brand with key stakeholders, including, in certain markets, consumers, as
well as securing the prescription, or recommendation, of Abbott's brand of products by physicians, pharmacists and other healthcare providers. Government agencies are also important customers.

Competition
in the Established Pharmaceutical Products segment is generally from other health care and pharmaceutical companies. Changes to government tenders and reimbursement schemes
are significant factors with respect to pricing. In addition, the substitution of generic drugs for the brand prescribed and introduction of additional forms of already marketed established products
by generic or branded competitors have increased competitive pressures.

Diagnostic Products

These products include a broad line of diagnostic systems and tests manufactured, marketed, and sold worldwide to blood banks,
hospitals, commercial laboratories, clinics, physicians' offices, government agencies, alternate-care testing sites, and plasma protein therapeutic companies. In the United States, the segment's
products are generally marketed and sold directly from Abbott-owned distribution centers, public warehouses and third-party distributors. Outside the United States, sales are made either directly to
customers or through distributors, depending on the market served.

The
principal products included in the Diagnostic Products segment are:

•immunoassay and clinical chemistry systems, including ARCHITECT® and ABBOTT PRISM®;








•assays used for screening and/or diagnosis for drugs of abuse, cancer, therapeutic drug monitoring, fertility,
physiological diseases, and infectious diseases such as hepatitis and HIV;•a full line of hematology systems and reagents known as the Cell-Dyn® series;•the m2000™, an instrument that automates the extraction, purification, and preparation of DNA and RNA from
patient samples, and detects and measures infectious agents including HIV, HBV, HCV, HPV, and CT/NG;•the Vysis® product line of genomic-based tests, including the PathVysion® HER-2 DNA probe kit; the
UroVysion® bladder cancer recurrence kit; and the Vysis ALK Break Apart FISH Probe Kit, the only FDA-approved companion diagnostic to Pfizer's approved non-small-cell lung cancer therapy
XALKORI®;•informatics and automation solutions for use in the laboratory; and•the i-STAT® point-of-care diagnostic systems and tests for blood analysis.

The
Diagnostic Products segment's products are subject to competition in technological innovation, price, convenience of use, service, instrument warranty provisions, product
performance, long-term supply contracts, and product potential for overall cost-effectiveness and productivity gains. Some products in this segment can be subject to rapid product obsolescence or
regulatory changes. Although Abbott has benefited from technological advantages of certain of its current products, these advantages may be reduced or eliminated as competitors introduce new products.

Nutritional Products

These products include a broad line of pediatric and adult nutritional products manufactured, marketed, and sold worldwide. These
products are generally marketed and sold directly to customers and to institutions, wholesalers, retailers, health care facilities, government agencies, and third-party distributors from Abbott-owned
distribution centers or third-party distributors.

The
principal products included in the Nutritional Products segment are:

•various forms of prepared infant formula and follow-on formula, including Similac®,
Similac®Advance®, Similac® Advance® with EarlyShield®, Similac® with Iron, Similac Sensitive®, Similac
Sensitive® RS, Similac Go&Grow®, Similac® NeoSure®, Similac® Organic, Similac Special Care®, Similac Total Comfort™,
Similac® For Supplementation, Isomil® Advance®, Isomil®, Alimentum®, Gain™, and Grow™;•adult and other pediatric nutritional products, including Ensure®, Ensure Plus®,
Ensure® Muscle Health, Ensure® (with Nutrivigor®), Glucerna®, Glucerna Hunger Smart®, ProSure®, PediaSure®,
PediaSure Sidekicks®, EleCare®, Juven®, Abound®, and Pedialyte®;•nutritional products used in enteral feeding in health care institutions, including Jevity®,
Glucerna® 1.2 Cal, Glucerna® 1.5 Cal, Osmolite®, Oxepa®, Freego (Enteral Pump) and Freego® sets, and Nepro®; and•Zone Perfect® bars and the EAS® family of nutritional brands, including Myoplex® and
AdvantEdge®.

Primary
marketing efforts for nutritional products are directed toward securing the recommendation of Abbott's brand of products by physicians or other health care professionals. In
addition, certain nutritional products sold as Gain™, Grow™, PediaSure®, PediaSure Sidekicks®, Pedialyte®, Ensure®, Zone
Perfect®, EAS®/Myoplex®, and Glucerna® are also promoted directly to the public by consumer marketing efforts in select markets.








Competition
for nutritional products in the segment is generally from other diversified consumer and health care manufacturers. Competitive factors include consumer advertising,
formulation, packaging, scientific innovation, intellectual property, price, retail distribution, and availability of product forms. A significant aspect of competition is the search for ingredient
innovations. The introduction of new products by competitors, changes in medical practices and procedures, and regulatory changes can result in product obsolescence. In addition, private label and
local manufacturers' products may increase competitive pressure.

Vascular Products

These products include a broad line of coronary, endovascular, vessel closure, and structural heart devices for the treatment of
vascular disease manufactured, marketed and sold worldwide. In the United States, the segment's products are generally marketed and sold directly to hospitals from Abbott-owned distribution centers
and public warehouses. Outside the United States, sales are made either directly to customers or through distributors, depending on the market served.

The
principal products included in the Vascular Products segment are:

•Xience Xpedition®, Xience Prime®, Xience nano®, Xience V®, and Xience
Pro™, drug-eluting coronary stent systems developed on the Multi-Link Vision® platform;•Absorb™, a drug-eluting coronary bioresorbable vascular scaffold;•Multi-Link 8®, Multi-Link Vision® and Multi-Link Mini Vision®, coronary metallic
stents;•TREK® and Voyager®, coronary balloon dilatation products;•Hi-Torque Balance Middleweight Elite® and ASAHI® coronary guidewires (licensed from Asahi
Intecc Co., Ltd.);•MitraClip®, a percutaneous mitral valve repair system;•Supera Veritas, a stent system for the treatment of biliary strictures related to cancer in the United States and
peripheral artery disease outside the United States;•StarClose SE® and Perclose® vessel closure devices; and•Acculink®/Accunet® and Xact®/Emboshield NAV6®, carotid stent
systems.

The
Vascular Products segment's products are subject to competition in technological innovation, price, convenience of use, service, product performance, long-term supply contracts, and
product potential for overall cost-effectiveness and productivity gains. Some products in this segment can be subject to rapid product obsolescence or regulatory changes. Although Abbott has benefited
from technological advantages of certain of its current products, these advantages may be reduced or eliminated as competitors introduce new products.

Other Products

The principal products in Abbott's other businesses include blood glucose and continuous glucose monitoring systems, test strips, data
management software and accessories for people with diabetes, including the FreeStyle® product line, and medical devices for the eye, including cataract surgery, LASIK surgery, contact
lens care products, and dry eye products. These products are marketed worldwide and generally sold directly to wholesalers, government agencies,
health care facilities, mail order pharmacies, and independent retailers from Abbott-owned distribution centers and public warehouses. Some of these products are marketed and distributed through
distributors. Blood glucose monitoring systems, contact lens care products, and dry eye products are also marketed and sold over-the-counter to consumers. These








products
are subject to regulatory changes and competition in technological innovation, price, convenience of use, service, and product performance.

INFORMATION WITH RESPECT TO ABBOTT'S BUSINESS IN GENERAL

Sources and Availability of Raw Materials

Abbott purchases, in the ordinary course of business, raw materials and supplies essential to Abbott's operations from numerous
suppliers in the United States and abroad. There have been no recent significant availability problems or supply shortages for raw materials or supplies.

Patents, Trademarks, and Licenses

Abbott is aware of the desirability for patent and trademark protection for its products. Accordingly, where possible, patents and
trademarks are sought and obtained for Abbott's products in the United States and countries of interest to Abbott. Abbott owns and is licensed under a substantial number of patents and patent
applications. Principal trademarks and the products they cover are discussed in the Narrative Description of Business on pages 1 through 4. These, and various patents which expire during the
period 2014 to 2034, in the aggregate, are believed to be of material importance in the operation of Abbott's business. Abbott believes that no single patent,
license, or trademark is material in relation to Abbott's business as a whole. Patent-related litigation is discussed in Legal Proceedings on pages 17 through 18.

Seasonal Aspects, Customers, Backlog, and Renegotiation

There are no significant seasonal aspects to Abbott's business. Abbott has no single customer that, if the customer were lost, would
have a material adverse effect on Abbott. Orders for Abbott's products are generally filled on a current basis, and order backlog is not material to Abbott's business. No material portion of Abbott's
business is subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts at the election of a government.

Research and Development

Abbott spent approximately $1.5 billion per year in 2013, 2012, and 2011 on research to discover and develop new products and
processes and to improve existing products and processes.

Environmental Matters

Abbott believes that its operations comply in all material respects with applicable laws and regulations concerning environmental
protection. Regulations under federal and state environmental laws impose stringent limitations on emissions and discharges to the environment from various manufacturing operations. Abbott's capital
and operating expenditures for pollution control in 2013 were approximately $9 million and $35 million, respectively. Capital and operating expenditures for pollution control in 2014 are
estimated to be $11 million and $36 million, respectively.

Abbott
has been identified as one of many potentially responsible parties in investigations and/or remediations at several locations in the United States, including Puerto Rico, under
the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, commonly known as Superfund. Abbott is also engaged in remediation at several other sites, some of which are owned by Abbott,
in cooperation with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) or similar agencies. While it is not feasible to predict with certainty the final costs related to those investigations and remediation
activities, Abbott believes that such costs, together with other expenditures to maintain compliance with applicable laws and
regulations concerning environmental protection, should not have a material adverse effect on Abbott's financial position, cash flows, or results of operations.








Employees

Abbott employed approximately 69,000 persons as of December 31, 2013.

Regulation

The development, manufacture, marketing, sale, promotion, and distribution of Abbott's products are subject to comprehensive government
regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and similar international regulatory agencies. Government regulation by various international, supranational, federal and state agencies addresses
(among other matters) the development and approval to market Abbott's products, as well as the inspection of, and controls over, research and laboratory procedures, clinical investigations, product
approvals and manufacturing, labeling, packaging, supply chains, marketing and promotion, pricing and reimbursement, sampling, distribution, quality control, post-market surveillance, record keeping,
storage, and disposal practices. Abbott's international operations are also affected by trade and investment regulations in many countries. These may require local investment, restrict Abbott's
investments, or limit the import of raw materials and finished products. In addition, Abbott is subject to laws and regulations pertaining to health care fraud and abuse, including state and federal
anti-kickback and false claims laws in the United States. Prescription drug, nutrition, and medical device manufacturers such as Abbott are also subject to taxes, as well as application, product,
user, establishment, and other fees. Governmental agencies can also invalidate intellectual property rights.

Compliance
with these laws and regulations is costly and materially affects Abbott's business. Among other effects, health care regulations substantially increase the time, difficulty,
and costs incurred in obtaining and maintaining approval to market newly developed and existing products. Abbott expects this regulatory environment will continue to require significant technical
expertise and capital investment to ensure compliance. Failure to comply can delay the release of a new product or result in regulatory and enforcement actions, the seizure or recall of a product, the
suspension or revocation of the authority necessary for a product's production and sale, and other civil or criminal sanctions, including fines and penalties.

Abbott's
business can also be affected by ongoing studies of the utilization, safety, efficacy, and outcomes of health care products and their components that are regularly conducted by
industry participants, government agencies, and others. These studies can call into question the utilization, safety, and efficacy of previously marketed products. In some cases, these studies have
resulted, and may in the future result, in the discontinuance of marketing of such products in one or more countries, and may give rise to claims for damages from persons who believe they have been
injured as a result of their use.

Access
to human health care products continues to be a subject of investigation and action by governmental agencies, legislative bodies, and private organizations in many countries. A
major focus is cost containment. Efforts to reduce health care costs are also being made in the private sector, notably by health care payors and providers, which have instituted various cost
reduction and containment measures. Abbott expects insurers and providers to continue attempts to reduce the cost of health care products. Many countries control the price of health care products
directly or indirectly, through reimbursement, payment, pricing, coverage limitations, or compulsory licensing. Budgetary pressures on health care payors may also heighten the scope and severity of
pricing pressures on Abbott's products for the foreseeable future.

In
the United States, the federal government follows a diagnosis-related group (DRG) payment system for certain institutional services provided under Medicare or Medicaid and has
implemented a prospective payment system (PPS) for services delivered in hospital outpatient, nursing home, and home health settings. DRG and PPS entitle a health care facility to a fixed
reimbursement based on the diagnosis and/or procedure rather than actual costs incurred in patient treatment, thereby increasing the incentive for the facility to limit or control expenditures for
many health care products. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services have announced plans to reevaluate reimbursement levels to diagnostic








laboratories.
Under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (together, the Affordable Care Act), Abbott must pay an excise tax on sales of
certain medical devices. Medicare also implemented a competitive bidding system for durable medical equipment (including diabetes products), enteral nutrition products, and supplies.

In
the United States, governmental cost containment efforts also affect Abbott's nutrition business. Under regulations governing the federally funded Special Supplemental Nutrition
Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC), all states must have a cost containment program for infant formula. As a result, through competitive bidding states obtain rebates from manufacturers of
infant formula whose products are used in the program.

The
Affordable Care Act also includes provisions known as the Physician Payments Sunshine Act, which require manufacturers of drugs, devices, and medical supplies covered under Medicare
and Medicaid to record any transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals and to report this data, beginning in 2014, to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services for subsequent public
disclosure. Similar reporting requirements have also been enacted on the state level domestically, and an increasing number of countries worldwide either have adopted or are considering similar laws
requiring transparency of interactions with health care professionals. Failure to report appropriate data may result in civil or criminal fines and/or penalties.

The
regulation of data privacy and security and the protection of the confidentiality of certain patient health information, is increasing. For example, the European Union continues to
contemplate enacting stricter laws with enhanced financial penalties for noncompliance. Similarly, in 2013, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services issued stricter rules governing the use,
disclosure, and security of protected health information. Failure to comply with data privacy and security regulations can result in enforcement actions, which could include civil or criminal
penalties. Transferring and managing protected health information will become more challenging as new laws and regulations are enacted, and Abbott expects there will be increasing regulatory
complexity in this area.

Abbott
expects debate to continue during 2014 at all government levels worldwide over the marketing, availability, method of delivery, and payment for health care products and services,
as well as data privacy and security. Abbott believes that future legislation and regulation in the markets it serves could affect access to health care products and services, increase rebates, reduce
prices or reimbursements or the rate of price increases for health care products and services, change health care delivery systems, create new fees and obligations for the pharmaceutical, nutrition,
diagnostic, and medical device industries, or require additional reporting and disclosure. It is not possible to predict the extent to which Abbott or the health care industry in general might be
affected by the matters discussed above.

INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS

As discussed in greater detail in the section captioned, "Narrative Description of Business," Abbott markets products worldwide through
affiliates and distributors. Most of the products discussed in the preceding sections of this report are also sold outside the United States. In addition, certain products of a local nature and
variations of product lines to meet local regulatory requirements and marketing preferences are manufactured and marketed to customers outside the United States. International operations are subject
to certain additional risks inherent in conducting business outside the United States, including price and currency exchange controls, changes in currency exchange rates, limitations on foreign
participation in local enterprises, expropriation, nationalization, and other governmental action.

INTERNET INFORMATION

Copies of Abbott's Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and
amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge through Abbott's investor relations website








(www.abbottinvestor.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after Abbott electronically files the material with, or furnishes it to, the Securities and
Exchange Commission.

Abbott's
corporate governance guidelines, outline of directorship qualifications, code of business conduct and the charters of Abbott's audit committee, compensation committee,
nominations and governance committee, and public policy committee are all available on Abbott's investor relations website (www.abbottinvestor.com).








