ITEM 1.    BUSINESS

GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS

Abbott Laboratories is an Illinois corporation, incorporated in 1900. Abbott's* principal business is the discovery, development,
manufacture, and sale of a broad and diversified line of health care products.

FINANCIAL INFORMATION RELATING TO INDUSTRY SEGMENTS, GEOGRAPHIC AREAS, AND CLASSES OF SIMILAR PRODUCTS

Incorporated herein by reference is Note 6 entitled "Segment and Geographic Area Information" of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements included under Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" and the sales information related to HUMIRA® included in "Financial Review."

NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

Through December 31, 2012, Abbott had five reportable revenue segments: Proprietary Pharmaceutical Products, Established
Pharmaceutical Products, Diagnostic Products, Nutritional Products, and Vascular Products.

On
January 1, 2013, Abbott completed the separation of its research-based pharmaceuticals business through the distribution of the issued and outstanding common stock of
AbbVie Inc. (AbbVie) to Abbott's shareholders. AbbVie was formed to hold Abbott's research-based pharmaceuticals business and, as a result of the distribution, is now an independent public
company trading under the symbol "ABBV" on the New York Stock Exchange.





*As
used throughout the text of this report on Form 10-K, the term "Abbott" refers to Abbott Laboratories, an Illinois corporation, or
Abbott Laboratories and its consolidated subsidiaries, as the context requires.








Proprietary Pharmaceutical Products

These products include a broad line of adult and pediatric pharmaceuticals manufactured, marketed, and sold worldwide (except as noted)
and are generally sold directly to wholesalers, distributors, government agencies, health care facilities, specialty pharmacies, and independent retailers from distribution centers and public
warehouses. Outside the United States, sales are made either directly to customers or through distributors, depending on the market served. Certain products are co-marketed or
co-promoted with other companies. As a result of the separation of Abbott's research-based pharmaceuticals business, beginning in 2013, Abbott will no longer have a Proprietary
Pharmaceutical Products segment.

The
principal products included in the Proprietary Pharmaceutical Products segment are:

•HUMIRA®, for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, psoriasis,
juvenile idiopathic arthritis, and Crohn's disease as well as ulcerative colitis in the United States and European Union and axial spondyloarthritis and pediatric Crohn's disease in the
European Union;•Kaletra®, also marketed as Aluvia®, and Norvir® for the treatment of HIV infection;•Lupron®, also marketed as Lucrin®, used for the palliative treatment of advanced prostate cancer,
treatment of endometriosis and central precocious puberty, and for the preoperative treatment of patients with anemia caused by uterine fibroids;•Synagis®, for the prevention of respiratory syncytial virus (RSV);•AndroGel®, for the treatment of adult males who have low testosterone (marketed and sold in the United
States);•the anesthesia product sevoflurane (sold under the trademarks Ultane® and Sevorane®);•Zemplar®, for the prevention and treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism associated with Stage 3, 4,
or 5 chronic kidney disease;•Synthroid®, for the treatment of hypothyroidism (marketed and sold in the United States);•Creon®, for the treatment of pancreatic exocrine insufficiency associated with several underlying conditions,
including cystic fibrosis and chronic pancreatitis (marketed and sold in the United States); and•TriCor®, Trilipix®, Simcor®, and Niaspan®, for the treatment of
dyslipidemia (marketed and sold in the United States).

The
Proprietary Pharmaceutical Products segment directs its primary marketing efforts toward securing the prescription, or recommendation, of its pharmaceutical products by physicians.
Managed care providers, market access organizations (for example, health maintenance organizations and pharmacy benefit managers) and national and regional governments and agencies (for example, the
United States Department of Veterans Affairs and the United States Department of Defense) are also important customers.

Competition
in the Proprietary Pharmaceutical Products segment is generally from other health care and pharmaceutical companies. The search for technological innovations in
pharmaceutical products is a significant aspect of competition in this segment. The introduction of new products by competitors and changes in medical practices and procedures can result in product
obsolescence in the Proprietary Pharmaceutical Products segment. Price can also be a factor. In addition, the substitution of generic drugs for the brand prescribed has increased competitive pressures
on pharmaceutical products that do not have patent protection.








Established Pharmaceutical Products

These products include a broad line of branded generic pharmaceuticals manufactured worldwide and marketed and sold outside the United
States, and are generally sold directly to wholesalers, distributors, government agencies, health care facilities, specialty pharmacies, and independent retailers from Abbott-owned distribution
centers and public warehouses, depending on the market served. Certain products are co-marketed or co-promoted with other companies.

The
principal products included in the Established Pharmaceutical Products segment are:

•Creon®, for the treatment of pancreatic exocrine insufficiency associated with several underlying conditions,
including cystic fibrosis and chronic pancreatitis (marketed and sold outside the United States);•the anti-infective clarithromycin (sold under the trademarks Biaxin®, Klacid®, and
Klaricid®);•Influvac®, an influenza vaccine available during flu season;•Serc®, for the treatment of Ménière's disease and vestibular vertigo;•Brufen®, for the treatment of pain, fever and inflammation;•Synthroid®, for the treatment of hypothyroidism (marketed and sold outside the United States);•Duspatal® and Dicetel®, for the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome or biliary spasm;•Duphaston®, for the treatment of many different gynecological disorders;•Adomet®, Heptral®, Transmetil®, Samyr®, and Donamet®, for the
treatment of intrahepatic cholestasis (associated with liver disease) or depressive symptoms;•Duphalac®, for regulation of the physiological rhythm of the colon;•Lipanthyl® and TriCor®, for the treatment of dyslipidemia (marketed and sold outside the United
States); and•Teveten® and Teveten® Plus, for the treatment of essential hypertension, and
Physiotens®, for the treatment of hypertension.

The
Established Pharmaceutical Products segment directs its primary marketing efforts toward securing the prescription, or recommendation, of Abbott's brand of products by physicians
both in the primary care and secondary (hospital) care environment. Government agencies are also important customers.

Competition
in the Established Pharmaceutical Products segment is generally from other health care and pharmaceutical companies. Changes to government tenders and reimbursement schemes
are significant factors with respect to pricing. In addition, the substitution of generic drugs for the brand prescribed and introduction of additional forms of already marketed established products
by generic or branded competitors have increased competitive pressures.

Diagnostic Products

These products include a broad line of diagnostic systems and tests manufactured, marketed, and sold worldwide to blood banks,
hospitals, commercial laboratories, clinics, physicians' offices, government agencies, alternate-care testing sites, and plasma protein therapeutic companies. The segment's products are
generally marketed and sold directly from Abbott-owned distribution centers, public warehouses and third-party distributors. Outside the United
States, sales are made either directly to customers or through distributors, depending on the market served.








The
principal products included in the Diagnostic Products segment are:

•immunoassay and clinical chemistry systems, including ARCHITECT® and ABBOTT PRISM®;•assays used for screening and/or diagnosis for drugs of abuse, cancer, therapeutic drug monitoring, fertility,
physiological diseases, and infectious diseases such as hepatitis and HIV;•the m2000™, an instrument that automates the extraction, purification, and preparation of DNA and RNA from
patient samples, and detects and measures infectious agents including HIV, HBV, HCV, HPV, and CT/NG;•the Vysis® product line of genomic-based tests, including the PathVysion® HER-2 DNA
probe kit; the UroVysion® bladder cancer recurrence kit; and the Vysis ALK Break Apart FISH Probe Kit, the only FDA-approved companion diagnostic to Pfizer's approved
non-small-cell lung cancer therapy XALKORI®;•informatics and automation solutions for use in the laboratory;•a full line of hematology systems and reagents known as the Cell-Dyn® series; and•the i-STAT® point-of-care diagnostic systems and tests for blood analysis.

In
addition, under a distribution agreement with Celera Group, the Diagnostic Products segment exclusively distributes certain Celera molecular diagnostic products, including the
ViroSeq® HIV genotyping system and products used for the detection of mutations in the CFTR gene, which causes cystic fibrosis.

The
Diagnostic Products segment's products are subject to competition in technological innovation, price, convenience of use, service, instrument warranty provisions, product
performance, long-term supply contracts, and product potential for overall cost-effectiveness and productivity gains. Some products in this segment can be subject to rapid
product obsolescence or regulatory changes. Although Abbott has benefited from technological advantages of certain of its current products, these advantages may be reduced or eliminated as competitors
introduce new products.

Nutritional Products

These products include a broad line of pediatric and adult nutritional products manufactured, marketed, and sold worldwide. These
products are generally marketed and sold directly to customers and to institutions, wholesalers, retailers, health care facilities, government agencies, and third-party distributors from Abbott-owned
distribution centers or third-party distributors.

The
principal products included in the Nutritional Products segment are:

•various forms of prepared infant formula and follow-on formula, including
Similac®Advance®, Similac® Advance® with EarlyShield®, Similac®, Similac® with Iron, Similac Sensitive®,
Similac Sensitive® RS, Similac Go&Grow®, Similac® NeoSure®, Similac® Organic, Similac Special Care®, Similac® Total
Comfort®, Isomil® Advance®, Isomil®, Alimentum®, Gain®, and Grow®;•adult and other pediatric nutritional products, including Ensure®, Ensure Plus®,
Ensure® Muscle Health, Ensure® (with Nutrivigor®), Glucerna®, Glucerna® Hunger Smart®, ProSure®,
PediaSure®, PediaSure Sidekicks®, EleCare®, Juven®, Abound®, and Pedialyte®;•nutritional products used in enteral feeding in health care institutions, including Jevity®,
Glucerna® 1.2 Cal, Glucerna® 1.5 Cal, Osmolite®, Oxepa®, Freego (Enteral Pump) and Freego® sets, and Nepro®; and•Zone Perfect® bars and the EAS® family of nutritional brands, including Myoplex® and
AdvantEdge®.








Primary
marketing efforts for nutritional products are directed toward securing the recommendation of Abbott's brand of products by physicians or other health care professionals. In
addition, certain nutritional products sold as Gain™, Grow™, PediaSure®, PediaSure Sidekicks®, Pedialyte®, Ensure®, Zone
Perfect®, EAS®/Myoplex®, and Glucerna® are also promoted directly to the public by consumer marketing efforts in select markets.

Competition
for nutritional products in the segment is generally from other diversified consumer and health care manufacturers. Competitive factors include consumer advertising,
formulation, packaging, scientific innovation, intellectual property, price, and availability of product forms. A significant aspect of competition is the search for ingredient innovations. The
introduction of new products by competitors, changes in medical practices and procedures, and regulatory changes can result in product obsolescence. In addition, private label and local manufacturers'
products may increase competitive pressure.

Vascular Products

These products include a broad line of coronary, endovascular, vessel closure, and structural heart devices for the treatment of
vascular disease manufactured, marketed and sold worldwide. The segment's products are generally marketed and sold directly to hospitals from Abbott-owned distribution centers and public warehouses.
Outside the United States, sales are made either directly to customers or through distributors, depending on the market served.

The
principal products included in the Vascular Products segment are:

•Xience Xpedition®, Xience Prime®, Xience nano™, and Xience V®,
drug-eluting coronary stent systems developed on the Multi-Link Vision® platform;•Absorb®, a drug-eluting coronary bioresorbable vascular scaffold;•Multi-Link 8®, Multi-Link Vision® and Multi-Link Mini
Vision®, coronary metallic stents;•TREK® and Voyager®, coronary balloon dilatation products;•Hi-Torque Balance Middleweight Elite® and ASAHI® coronary guidewires (licensed from
Asahi Intecc Co., Ltd.);•StarClose® and Perclose® vessel closure devices;•Acculink®/Accunet® and Xact®/Emboshield NAV6®, carotid stent
systems;•Armada® and Absolute Pro Peripheral® balloon dilatation products;•Herculink Elite Renal® and Omnilink Elite Iliac® stent systems; and•MitraClip®, a percutaneous valve repair system.

The
Vascular Products segment's products are subject to competition in technological innovation, price, convenience of use, service, product performance, long-term supply
contracts, and product potential for overall cost-effectiveness and productivity gains. Some products in this segment can be subject to rapid product obsolescence or regulatory changes.
Although Abbott has benefited from technological advantages of certain of its current products, these advantages may be reduced or eliminated as competitors introduce new products.

Other Products

The principal products in Abbott's other businesses include blood glucose monitoring meters, test strips, data management software and
accessories for people with diabetes, including the FreeStyle® product line, and medical devices for the eye, including cataract surgery, LASIK surgery, contact lens care products, and dry
eye products. These products are mostly marketed worldwide and generally sold directly to wholesalers, government agencies, health care facilities, mail order pharmacies, and independent








retailers
from Abbott-owned distribution centers and public warehouses. Some of these products are marketed and distributed through distributors. Blood glucose monitoring meters, contact lens care
products, and dry eye products are also marketed and sold over-the-counter to consumers. These products are subject to competition in technological innovation, price,
convenience of use, service, and product performance. Medical devices for the eye also can be subject to rapid product obsolescence or regulatory changes.

INFORMATION WITH RESPECT TO ABBOTT'S BUSINESS IN GENERAL

Sources and Availability of Raw Materials

Abbott purchases, in the ordinary course of business, raw materials and supplies essential to Abbott's operations from numerous
suppliers in the United States and abroad. There have been no recent significant availability problems or supply shortages.

Patents, Trademarks, and Licenses

Abbott is aware of the desirability for patent and trademark protection for its products. Accordingly, where possible, patents and
trademarks are sought and obtained for Abbott's products in the United States and all countries of major marketing interest to Abbott. Abbott owns and is licensed under a substantial number of patents
and patent applications. Principal trademarks and the products they cover are discussed in the Narrative Description of Business on pages 1 through 5. These, and various patents which expire
during the period 2013 to 2032, in the aggregate, are believed to be of material importance in the operation of Abbott's business. Abbott believes that, after the separation of AbbVie, no single
patent, license, or trademark is material in relation to Abbott's business as a whole. In connection with the separation and distribution of AbbVie, Abbott contributed certain pharmaceutical related
patents, licenses, and trademarks to AbbVie. Patent-related litigation is discussed in Legal Proceedings on pages 18 through 20.

Seasonal Aspects, Customers, Backlog, and Renegotiation

There are no significant seasonal aspects to Abbott's business. Abbott has no single customer that, if the customer were lost, would
have a material adverse effect on Abbott. Orders for Abbott's products are generally filled on a current basis, and order backlog is not material to Abbott's business. No material portion of Abbott's
business is subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts at the election of the government.

Research and Development

Abbott spent approximately $4.3 billion in 2012, $4.1 billion in 2011, and $3.7 billion in 2010, on research to
discover and develop new products and processes and to improve existing products and processes. The majority of research and development expenditures was concentrated on proprietary pharmaceutical
products.

Environmental Matters

Abbott believes that its operations comply in all material respects with applicable laws and regulations concerning environmental
protection. Regulations under federal and state environmental laws impose stringent limitations on emissions and discharges to the environment from various manufacturing operations. Abbott's capital
and operating expenditures for pollution control in 2012 were approximately $12 million and $63 million, respectively. After the separation of AbbVie, capital and operating expenditures
for pollution control in 2013 are estimated to be $10 million and $53 million, respectively.

Abbott
has been identified as one of many potentially responsible parties in investigations and/or remediations at several locations in the United States, including Puerto Rico, under
the Comprehensive








Environmental
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, commonly known as Superfund. Abbott is also engaged in remediation at several other sites, some of which are owned by Abbott, in cooperation
with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) or similar agencies. While it is not feasible to predict with certainty the final costs related to those investigations and remediation activities,
Abbott believes that such costs, together with other expenditures to maintain compliance with applicable laws and regulations concerning environmental protection, should not have a material adverse
effect on Abbott's financial position, cash flows, or results of operations.

Employees

Abbott employed approximately 91,000 persons as of December 31, 2012. Approximately 21,000 persons were transferred to AbbVie in
connection with the separation.

Regulation

Compliance
with these laws and regulations is costly and materially affects Abbott's business. Among other effects, health care regulations substantially increase the time, difficulty,
and costs incurred in obtaining and maintaining approval to market newly developed and existing products. Abbott expects this regulatory environment will continue to require significant technical
expertise and capital investment to ensure compliance. Failure to comply can delay the release of a new product or result in regulatory and enforcement actions, the seizure or recall of a product, the
suspension or revocation of the authority necessary for a product's production and sale, and other civil or criminal sanctions, including fines and penalties.

In
addition to regulatory initiatives, Abbott's business can be affected by ongoing studies of the utilization, safety, efficacy, and outcomes of health care products and their
components that are regularly conducted by industry participants, government agencies, and others. These studies can call into question the utilization, safety, and efficacy of previously marketed
products. In some cases, these studies have resulted, and may in the future result, in the discontinuance of marketing of such products domestically or globally, and may give rise to claims for
damages from persons who believe they have been injured as a result of their use.

Access
to human health care products continues to be a subject of investigation and action by governmental agencies, legislative bodies, and private organizations in the United States
and other countries. A major focus is cost containment. Efforts to reduce health care costs are also being made in the








private
sector, notably by health care payors and providers, which have instituted various cost reduction and containment measures. Abbott expects insurers and providers to continue attempts to reduce
the cost of health care products. Many countries control the price of health care products directly or indirectly, through reimbursement, payment, pricing, coverage limitations, or compulsory
licensing, and are adopting laws and rules to govern the introduction of biosimilar products. Domestic and foreign budgetary pressures may also heighten the scope and severity of pricing pressures on
Abbott's products for the foreseeable future.

Specifically,
U.S. federal laws requiring pharmaceutical manufacturers to pay certain statutorily-prescribed rebates to state Medicaid programs on prescription drugs reimbursed under
state Medicaid plans, and the efforts by states to seek additional rebates, affect Abbott's proprietary pharmaceutical business. Similarly, the Veterans Health Care Act of 1992 requires manufacturers
to extend additional discounts on pharmaceutical products to various federal agencies, including the Department of Veterans Affairs, Department of Defense, Public Health Service entities and
institutions, as well as certain other covered entities. The Veterans Health Care Act also established the 340B drug discount program, which requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to provide products
at reduced prices to designated health care facilities.

In
the United States, most states also have generic substitution legislation requiring or permitting a dispensing pharmacist to substitute a different manufacturer's version of a
pharmaceutical product for the one prescribed. In addition, the federal government follows a diagnosis-related group (DRG) payment system for certain institutional services provided under Medicare or
Medicaid and has implemented a prospective payment system (PPS) for services delivered in hospital outpatient, nursing home, and home health settings. DRG and PPS entitle a health care facility to a
fixed reimbursement based on the diagnosis and/or procedure rather than actual costs incurred in patient treatment, thereby increasing the incentive for the facility to limit or control expenditures
for many health care products. End stage renal disease treatment is covered through a bundled payment that likewise creates incentives for providers to control costs. Medicare enters into contracts
with private plans to negotiate prices for medicine delivered under Part D.

Under
the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (together, the Affordable Care Act), Abbott pays a fee related to its
pharmaceutical sales to government programs. In 2011, Abbott began providing a discount of 50 percent for branded prescription drugs sold to patients who fall into the Medicare Part D
coverage gap, or "donut hole." The Affordable Care Act has also implemented the Medicare Shared Savings Program, which created accountable care organizations. The program provides incentives for
health care providers to potentially reduce utilization of health care products by allowing accountable care organizations to share in Medicare savings. In 2013, as a result of the Affordable Care
Act, manufacturers will begin paying an excise tax on sales of certain medical devices. Medicare is also implementing a competitive bidding system for durable medical equipment (including diabetes
products), enteral nutrition products, and supplies.

The
Affordable Care Act also includes provisions known as the Physician Payments Sunshine Act, which require manufacturers of drugs, biologics, devices and medical supplies covered under
Medicare and Medicaid starting in 2013 to record any transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals and to report this data beginning in 2014 to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services
for subsequent public disclosure. Similar reporting requirements have also been enacted on the state level domestically, and an increasing number of countries worldwide either have adopted or are
considering similar laws requiring transparency of interactions with health care professionals. Failure to report appropriate data may result in civil or criminal fines and/or penalties.

With
the separation of AbbVie at the beginning of 2013, Abbott no longer sells pharmaceutical products in the U.S. and therefore is no longer subject to certain fees, rebates, and
discounts applicable to U.S. pharmaceutical manufacturers.








In
the United States, governmental cost containment efforts also affect Abbott's nutrition business. Under regulations governing the federally funded Special Supplemental Nutrition
Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC), all states must have a cost containment program for infant formula. As a result, through competitive bidding states obtain rebates from manufacturers of
infant formula whose products are used in the program.

Abbott
expects debate to continue during 2013 at all government levels worldwide over the marketing, availability, method of delivery, and payment for health care products and services.
Abbott believes that future legislation and regulation in the markets it serves could affect access to health care products and services, increase rebates, reduce prices or reimbursements or the rate
of price increases for health care products and services, change health care delivery systems, create new fees and obligations for the pharmaceutical, nutrition, diagnostic, and medical device
industries, or require additional reporting and disclosure. It is not possible to predict the extent to which Abbott or the health care industry in general might be affected by the matters discussed
above.

On
April 19, 2012, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois vacated a consent decree to which Abbott was previously a party. The consent decree required
Abbott to ensure its diagnostics manufacturing processes in Lake County, Illinois conform to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) Quality System Regulation and restricted the sale in the
United States of certain products in the Diagnostic Products segment. In 2003, the FDA concluded that those operations were in substantial conformity with the Quality System Regulation.

INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS

Abbott markets products worldwide through affiliates and distributors. Most of the products discussed in the preceding sections of this
report are also sold outside the United States. In addition, certain products of a local nature and variations of product lines to meet local regulatory requirements and marketing preferences are
manufactured and marketed to customers outside the United States. International operations are subject to certain additional risks inherent in conducting business outside the United States, including
price and currency exchange controls, changes in currency exchange rates, limitations on foreign participation in local enterprises, expropriation, nationalization, and other governmental action.

INTERNET INFORMATION

Copies of Abbott's Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on
Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge through
Abbott's investor relations website (www.abbottinvestor.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after Abbott electronically files the material with, or
furnishes it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Abbott's
corporate governance guidelines, outline of directorship qualifications, code of business conduct and the charters of Abbott's audit committee, compensation committee,
nominations and governance committee, and public policy committee are all available on Abbott's investor relations website (www.abbottinvestor.com).








