ITEM 1.    BUSINESS

GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS

Abbott Laboratories is an Illinois corporation, incorporated in 1900. Abbott's* principal business is the discovery, development,
manufacture, and sale of a broad and diversified line of health care products.

FINANCIAL INFORMATION RELATING TO INDUSTRY SEGMENTS, GEOGRAPHIC AREAS, ANDCLASSES OF SIMILAR PRODUCTS

Incorporated herein by reference is Note 6 entitled "Segment and Geographic Area Information" of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements included under Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" and the sales information related to Humira® included in "Financial Review."

NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

Abbott has four reportable revenue segments: Pharmaceutical Products, Diagnostic Products, Nutritional Products, and Vascular Products.

On
February 15, 2010, Abbott completed its acquisition of the Solvay Group's pharmaceuticals business for approximately $6.1 billion, in cash, plus additional payments of
up to EUR 100 million per year if certain sales milestones are met in 2011, 2012, and 2013.

On
September 8, 2010, Abbott acquired Piramal Healthcare Limited's Healthcare Solutions business, a leader in the Indian branded generics market, for $2.2 billion, in cash,
plus additional payments of $400 million annually in 2011, 2012, 2013, and 2014.



*As
used throughout the text of this report on Form 10-K, the term "Abbott" refers to Abbott Laboratories, an Illinois corporation, or
Abbott Laboratories and its consolidated subsidiaries, as the context requires.









Pharmaceutical Products

These products include a broad line of adult and pediatric pharmaceuticals manufactured, marketed, and sold worldwide and are generally
sold directly to wholesalers, distributors, government agencies, health care facilities, specialty pharmacies, and independent retailers from Abbott-owned distribution centers and public warehouses.
Outside the United States, sales are made either directly to customers or through distributors, depending on the market served. Certain products are co-marketed or co-promoted
with other companies. In April 2010, Abbott acquired the outstanding shares of Facet Biotech Corporation for approximately $430 million, in cash, net of cash held by Facet. The acquisition
enhances Abbott's early- and mid-stage pharmaceutical pipeline, including a biologic for multiple sclerosis and compounds that complement Abbott's oncology program.

The
principal products included in the Pharmaceutical Products segment are:

•Humira®, for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, psoriasis,
and Crohn's disease;•TriCor®, Trilipix®, Simcor®, and Niaspan®, for the treatment of
dyslipidemia;•Kaletra®, Aluvia™, and Norvir®, protease inhibitors for the treatment of HIV
infection;•Lupron®, also marketed as Lucrin®, and Lupron Depot®, used for the palliative
treatment of advanced prostate cancer, treatment of endometriosis and central precocious puberty, and for the preoperative treatment of patients with anemia caused by uterine fibroids;•Synagis®, for the treatment and prevention of respiratory syncytial virus (RSV);•AndroGel®, for the treatment of adult males who have low or no testosterone;•the anesthesia products sevoflurane (sold in the United States under the trademark Ultane® and outside of the
United States primarily under the trademark Sevorane® and in a few other markets as Ultane®), isoflurane, and enflurane;•Zemplar®, for the prevention and treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism associated with chronic kidney
disease and Stage 5 treatment;•Synthroid®, for the treatment of hypothyroidism;•the anti-infective clarithromycin (sold under the trademarks Biaxin®, Klacid®, and
Klaricid®); and•Creon®, for the treatment of pancreatic exocrine insufficiency associated with several underlying conditions,
including cystic fibrosis and chronic pancreatitis.

The
Pharmaceutical Products segment directs its primary marketing efforts toward securing the prescription, or recommendation of Abbott's brand of products by physicians. Managed care
providers (for example, health maintenance organizations and pharmacy benefit managers) and state and federal governments and agencies (for example, the United States Department of Veterans Affairs
and the United States Department of Defense) are also important customers.

Competition
in the Pharmaceutical Products segment is generally from other health care and pharmaceutical companies. The search for technological innovations in pharmaceutical products
is a significant aspect of competition in this segment. The introduction of new products by competitors and changes in medical practices and procedures can result in product obsolescence in the
Pharmaceutical Products segment. Price can also be a factor. In addition, the substitution of generic drugs for the brand prescribed has increased competitive pressures on pharmaceutical products that
are off-patent.









Diagnostic Products

These products include a broad line of diagnostic systems and tests manufactured, marketed, and sold worldwide to blood banks,
hospitals, commercial laboratories, clinics, physicians' offices, government agencies, alternate-care testing sites, and plasma protein therapeutic companies. The segment's products are
generally marketed and sold directly from Abbott-owned distribution centers and public warehouses and third-party distributors. Outside the United States, sales are made either directly to customers
or through distributors, depending on the market served.

The
principal products included in the Diagnostic Products segment are:

•immunoassay systems, including ARCHITECT®, AxSYM®, and ABBOTT PRISM®;•chemistry systems such as ARCHITECT® c4000®, c8000®, and c16000®;•assays used for screening and/or diagnosis for drugs of abuse, cancer, therapeutic drug monitoring, fertility,
physiological diseases, and infectious diseases such as hepatitis and HIV;•the m2000™, an instrument that automates the extraction, purification, and preparation of DNA and RNA from
patient samples and detects and measures infectious agents including HIV, HBV, HCV, HPV, and CT/NG;•the Vysis® product line of genomic-based tests, including the PathVysion® HER-2 DNA
probe kit and the UroVysion® bladder cancer recurrence kit;•a full line of hematology systems and reagents known as the Cell-Dyn® series; and•the i-STAT® point-of-care diagnostic systems and tests for blood analysis.

In
addition, under a distribution agreement with Celera Group, the Diagnostic Products segment exclusively distributes certain Celera molecular diagnostic products, including the
ViroSeq® HIV genotyping system and products used for the detection of mutations in the CFTR gene, which causes cystic fibrosis.

The
Diagnostic Products segment's products are subject to competition in technological innovation, price, convenience of use, service, instrument warranty provisions, product
performance, long-term supply contracts, and product potential for overall cost-effectiveness and productivity gains. Some products in this segment can be subject to rapid
product obsolescence or regulatory changes. Although Abbott has benefited from technological advantages of certain of its current products, these advantages may be reduced or eliminated as competitors
introduce new products.

Nutritional Products

These products include a broad line of pediatric and adult nutritional products manufactured, marketed, and sold worldwide. These
products are generally marketed and sold to institutions, wholesalers, retailers, health care facilities, government agencies, and third-party distributors from Abbott-owned distribution centers or
third-party distributors. Outside the United States, sales are made either directly to customers or through distributors, depending on the market served.

Principal
products in the Nutritional Products segment include:

•various forms of prepared infant formula and follow-on formula, including
Similac®Advance®, Similac Advance EarlyShield®, Similac®, Similac® with Iron, Similac Sensitive®, Similac Sensitive®
RS, Similac Go&Grow®, Similac® NeoSure®, Similac® Organic, Similac® Special Care®, Isomil® Advance®,
Isomil®, Alimentum®, Gain™, and Grow™;









•adult and other pediatric nutritional products, including Ensure®, Ensure Plus®,
Ensure® Muscle Health, Glucerna®, ProSure™, PediaSure®, PediaSure Sidekicks®, EleCare®, Juven®, Abound™,
and Pedialyte®;•nutritional products used in enteral feeding in health care institutions, including Jevity®,
Glucerna® 1.2 Cal, Glucerna® 1.5 Cal, Osmolite®, Oxepa®, and Nepro®; and•Zone Perfect® bars and the EAS® family of nutritional brands, including Myoplex® and
AdvantEdge®.

Primary
marketing efforts for nutritional products are directed toward securing the recommendation of Abbott's brand of products by physicians or other health care professionals. In
addition, certain nutritional products sold as Gain™, Grow™, PediaSure®, PediaSure Sidekicks®, Pedialyte®, Ensure®, Zone
Perfect®, EAS®/Myoplex®, and Glucerna® are also promoted directly to the public by consumer marketing efforts in select markets.

Competition
for nutritional products in the segment is generally from other diversified consumer and health care manufacturers. Competitive factors include consumer advertising,
formulation, packaging, scientific innovation, intellectual property, price, and availability of product forms. A significant aspect of competition is the search for ingredient innovations. The
introduction of new products by competitors, changes in medical practices and procedures, and regulatory changes can result in product obsolescence. In addition, private label and local manufacturers'
products may increase competitive pressure.

Vascular Products

These products include a broad line of coronary, endovascular, vessel closure, and structural heart devices for the treatment of
vascular disease manufactured, marketed and sold worldwide. The segment's products are generally marketed and sold directly to hospitals from
Abbott-owned distribution centers and public warehouses. Outside the United States, sales are made either directly to customers or through distributors, depending on the market served.

The
principal products included in the Vascular Products segment are:

•Xience Prime™ and Xience V® drug-eluting stent systems developed on the
Multi-Link Vision® platform;•Multi-Link 8™, Multi-Link Vision® and Multi-Link Mini
Vision® coronary metallic stents;•TREK® and Voyager® balloon dilatation products;•Hi-Torque Balance Middleweight Elite™ and Asahi® coronary guidewires;•StarClose® and Perclose® vessel closure devices;•Acculink®/Accunet® and Xact®/Emboshield NAV6® carotid stent
systems;•MitraClip®, a percutaneous valve repair system; and•ABSORB™, a drug eluting bioresorbable vascular scaffold.

The
Vascular Products segment's products are subject to competition in technological innovation, price, convenience of use, service, product performance, long-term supply
contracts, and product potential for overall cost-effectiveness and productivity gains. Some products in this segment can be subject to rapid product obsolescence or regulatory changes.
Although Abbott has benefited from technological advantages of certain of its current products, these advantages may be reduced or eliminated as competitors introduce new products.









Other Products

The principal products in Abbott's other businesses include blood glucose monitoring meters, test strips, data management software and
accessories for people with diabetes, including the FreeStyle® product line, and medical devices for the eye, including cataract surgery, LASIK surgery, contact lens care products, and dry
eye products. These products are mostly marketed worldwide and generally sold directly to wholesalers, government agencies, health care facilities, mail order pharmacies, and independent retailers
from Abbott-owned distribution centers and public warehouses. Some of these products are marketed and distributed through distributors. Blood glucose monitoring meters, contact lens care products, and
dry eye products are also marketed and sold over-the-counter to consumers. These products are subject to competition in technological innovation, price, convenience of use,
service, and product performance. Medical devices for the eye also can be subject to rapid product obsolescence or regulatory changes.

INFORMATION WITH RESPECT TO ABBOTT'S BUSINESS IN GENERAL

Sources and Availability of Raw Materials

Abbott purchases, in the ordinary course of business, raw materials and supplies essential to Abbott's operations from numerous
suppliers in the United States and abroad. There have been no recent significant availability problems or supply shortages.

Patents, Trademarks, and Licenses

Although
the expiration of a composition of matter patent may lead to increased competition, in most cases Abbott owns or has a license to other patents that expire after the composition
of matter patent related to particular formulations, uses, or processes for manufacturing the pharmaceutical. These non-composition of matter patents and Abbott's other intellectual
property, along with such other factors as a competitor's need to obtain regulatory approvals prior to marketing a competitive product and the nature of the market, may allow Abbott to continue to
have commercial advantages after the expiration of the composition of matter patent, including in some instances exclusivity.









Seasonal Aspects, Customers, Backlog, and Renegotiation

There are no significant seasonal aspects to Abbott's business. Abbott has no single customer that, if the customer were lost, would
have a material adverse effect on Abbott. Orders for Abbott's products are generally filled on a current basis, and order backlog is not material to Abbott's business. No material portion of Abbott's
business is subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts at the election of the government.

Research and Development

Abbott spent $3,724,424,000 in 2010, $2,743,733,000 in 2009, and $2,688,811,000 in 2008, on research to discover and develop new
products and processes and to improve existing products and processes. The majority of research and development expenditures is concentrated on pharmaceutical products.

Environmental Matters

Abbott believes that its operations comply in all material respects with applicable laws and regulations concerning environmental
protection. Regulations under federal and state environmental laws impose stringent limitations on emissions and discharges to the environment from various manufacturing operations. Abbott's capital
and operating expenditures for pollution control in 2010 were approximately $9 million and $65 million, respectively. Capital and operating expenditures for pollution control in 2011 are
estimated to be $15 million and $67 million, respectively.

Abbott
has been identified as one of many potentially responsible parties in investigations and/or remediations at several locations in the United States, including Puerto Rico, under
the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, commonly known as Superfund. Abbott is also engaged in remediation at several other sites, some of which are owned by Abbott,
in cooperation
with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) or similar agencies. While it is not feasible to predict with certainty the final costs related to those investigations and remediation activities,
Abbott believes that such costs, together with other expenditures to maintain compliance with applicable laws and regulations concerning environmental protection, should not have a material adverse
effect on Abbott's financial position, cash flows, or results of operations.

Employees

Abbott employed approximately 90,000 persons as of December 31, 2010.

Regulation

The development, manufacture, sale, and distribution of Abbott's products are subject to comprehensive government regulation.
Government regulation by various federal, state, and local agencies, both domestic and international, which includes detailed inspection of, and controls over, research and laboratory procedures,
clinical investigations, product approvals and manufacturing, marketing and promotion, sampling, distribution, record keeping, storage, and disposal practices, and achieving compliance with these
regulations, substantially increases the time, difficulty, and costs incurred in obtaining and maintaining the approval to market newly developed and existing products. Government regulatory actions
can result in delay in the release of products, seizure or recall of products, suspension or revocation of the authority necessary for their production and sale, and other civil or criminal sanctions,
including fines and penalties. Governmental administrative agencies also can invalidate intellectual property rights and control the entrance of multi-source drugs for small molecule and biologic
generic medicines. In addition, governmental regulatory agencies require prescription drug, nutrition, and medical device manufacturers to pay fees, such as application, product, user, and
establishment fees or taxes.

Abbott
is a party to a consent decree entered in 1999 that requires Abbott to ensure its diagnostics manufacturing processes in Lake County, Illinois conform to the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration's











(FDA)
Quality System Regulation and restricts the sale in the United States of certain products in the Diagnostic Products segment. In 2003, the FDA concluded that those operations were in substantial
conformity with the Quality System Regulation.

International
operations are also subject to a significant degree of government regulation and country-specific rules and regulations. Many countries, directly or indirectly, through
reimbursement, payment, pricing, or coverage limitations, control the selling price of most health care products. Furthermore, many countries limit the importation of raw materials and finished
products.

Continuing
studies of the utilization, safety, efficacy, and outcomes of health care products and their components are being conducted by industry, government agencies, and others. Such
studies, which employ increasingly sophisticated methods and techniques, can call into question the utilization, safety, and efficacy of previously marketed products and in some cases have resulted,
and may in the future result, in the discontinuance of marketing of such products and may give rise to claims for damages from persons who believe they have been injured as a result of their use.

In
the United States, governmental cost containment efforts have extended to the federally funded Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC). All
states are mandated to have in place a cost containment program for infant formula. As a result, states obtain rebates from manufacturers of infant formula whose products are used in the program
through competitive bidding.

Abbott
expects debate to continue during 2011 at all government levels over marketing, availability, method of delivery, and payment for health care products and services. Abbott
believes that legislation could change access to health care products and services, increase rebates, reduce prices or the rate of price increases for health care products and services, make changes
to health care delivery systems, create new fees and obligations for the pharmaceutical, nutrition, and medical device industries, or require additional reporting and disclosure.

Efforts
to reduce health care costs are also being made in the private sector. Health care providers have responded by instituting various cost reduction and containment measures.

It
is not possible to predict the extent to which Abbott or the health care industry in general might be affected by the matters discussed above.









INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS

Abbott markets products worldwide through affiliates and distributors. Most of the products discussed in the preceding sections of this
report are also sold outside the United States. In addition, certain products of a local nature and variations of product lines to meet local regulatory requirements and marketing preferences are
manufactured and marketed to customers outside the United States. International operations are subject to certain additional risks inherent in conducting business outside the United States, including
price and currency exchange controls, changes in currency exchange rates, limitations on foreign participation in local enterprises, expropriation, nationalization, and other governmental action.

INTERNET INFORMATION

Copies of Abbott's Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on
Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge through
Abbott's investor relations website(www.abbottinvestor.com)as soon as reasonably practicable after Abbott electronically files the material with, or
furnishes it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Abbott's
corporate governance guidelines, outline of directorship qualifications, code of business conduct and the charters of Abbott's audit committee, compensation committee,
nominations and
governance committee, and public policy committee are all available on Abbott's investor relations website(www.abbottinvestor.com).









