ITEM 1.BUSINESS

BACKGROUND

As used in this report, except where the context indicates otherwise, the terms “Moody’s” or the “Company” refer to
Moody’s Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and its subsidiaries. The Company’s executive offices are located at 7 World Trade Center at 250 Greenwich Street, New York, NY 10007 and its telephone number is (212) 553-0300. Prior to
September 30, 2000, the Company operated as part of The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation.

THE COMPANY

Moody’s is a provider of (i) credit ratings, (ii) credit and economic related research, data and analytical tools, (iii) risk
management software, (iv) quantitative credit risk measures, credit portfolio management solutions, training and financial credentialing and certification services and (v) outsourced research and analytical services to institutional
customers. Moody’s reports in two reportable segments: MIS and MA. The MIS segment consists of all credit rating activity. All of Moody’s other non-rating commercial activities are included within the MA segment. Financial information and
operating results of these segments, including revenue, expenses, operating income and total assets, are included in Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements of this annual report, and are herein incorporated by reference.

MIS, the credit rating agency, publishes credit ratings on a wide range of debt obligations and the entities that issue such obligations in markets worldwide,
including various corporate and governmental obligations, structured finance securities and commercial paper programs. Revenue is derived from the originators and issuers of such transactions who use MIS ratings to support the distribution of their
debt issues to investors. MIS provides ratings in more than 110 countries. Ratings are disseminated via press releases to the public through a variety of print and electronic media, including the Internet and real-time information systems widely
used by securities traders and investors. As of December 31, 2011, MIS had ratings relationships with approximately 11,000 corporate issuers and approximately 22,000 public finance issuers. Additionally, the Company has rated and currently
monitors ratings on approximately 94,000 structured finance obligations (representing approximately 14,000 transactions). The aforementioned amounts relating to the number of issuers and transactions represent issuers or transactions that had an
active rating at any point during the year ended December 31, 2011.

The MA segment develops a wide range of products and services that support the
risk management activities of institutional participants in global financial markets. Within its Research, Data and Analytics business, MA distributes investor-oriented research and data developed by MIS as part of its ratings process, including
in-depth research on major debt issuers, industry studies, commentary on topical credit related events and also provides economic research and credit data and analytical tools such as quantitative credit risk scores. Within its Risk Management
Software business, MA provides both economic and regulatory capital risk management software and implementation services. Within its Professional Services business it provides quantitative credit risk measures, credit portfolio management solutions,
training, financial credentialing and certification services as well as outsourced research and analytical services to institutional investors. MA customers represent more than 4,600 institutions worldwide operating in approximately 115 countries.
During 2011 Moody’s research web site was accessed by over 226,000 individuals including 28,000 client users.

The Company operated as part of
“Old D&B” until September 30, 2000, when Old D&B separated into two publicly traded companies – Moody’s Corporation and New D&B. At that time, Old D&B distributed to its shareholders shares of New D&B
stock. New D&B comprised the business of Old D&B’s Dun & Bradstreet operating company. The remaining business of Old D&B consisted solely of the business of providing ratings and related research and credit risk management
services and was renamed Moody’s Corporation. For purposes of governing certain ongoing relationships between the Company and New D&B after the 2000 Distribution and to provide for an orderly transition, the Company and New D&B entered
into various agreements including a distribution agreement, tax allocation agreement and employee benefits agreement.



8MOODY’S2011 10-K




PROSPECTS FOR GROWTH

Over recent decades, global fixed-income markets grew significantly in terms of the amount and the types of securities or other obligations outstanding. Beginning in mid-2007, there was a severe market disruption
and a global decline in issuance activity for some significant asset classes. Despite the market disruption, Moody’s believes that the overall long-term outlook remains favorable for continued global growth of fixed-income markets including the
market for related financial information such as credit opinions, data, analytics and related services. Moody’s growth is influenced by a number of trends that impact financial information markets including:



•Health of the world’s major economies;



•Debt capital markets activity; and



•Business investment spending.

Throughout 2011
there were continued signs of gradual improvement in the health of the U.S. economy while the global economy continued to experience more volatility with European sovereign debt and related banking sector concerns offset by strong economic growth in
emerging markets. Continued improvement of the U.S. economy and housing sector as well as a potential resolution to the European sovereign debt crisis should influence the Company’s growth over the near term. Furthermore, Moody’s is well
positioned to benefit from a long-term recovery in global credit market activity and a more informed use of credit ratings, research and related analytical products in an environment of renewed attention to risk analysis and risk management.
Moody’s expects that these developments will support continued long-term demand for high-quality, independent credit opinions, research, data and risk management tools and services. An expectation of recovery-driven growth in capital market
activity, supported by initiatives to increase market share, leverage pricing opportunities, capture disintermediation activity in developed and developing markets and develop additional data, research and rating products, represent key growth
drivers for Moody’s.

Longer term growth in global fixed-income markets is also attributable to
a number of forces and trends such as advances in information technology and disintermediation of financial systems. The pace of change in technology and communication over the past two decades makes information about investment alternatives widely
available throughout the world and facilitates issuers’ ability to place securities outside their national markets and investors’ capacity to obtain information about securities issued outside their national markets. Technology also allows
issuers and investors the ability to more readily obtain information about new financing techniques and new types of securities that they may wish to purchase or sell, which in the absence of the appropriate technology may not be easily obtainable.
This availability of information promotes the ongoing integration and expansion of financial markets worldwide giving issuers and investors access to a wider range of developed capital markets and a number of new capital markets. As technology
provides for wider access to worldwide markets, it also results in a greater need for credible, globally comparable opinions about credit risk, data, analytics and related services. Additionally, information technology also provides opportunities to
further build a global platform to support Moody’s continued expansion in developing markets.

An ongoing trend in the world’s capital markets
is the disintermediation of financial systems. Issuers increasingly raise capital in the global public capital markets, in addition to, or in substitution for, traditional financial intermediaries. Moreover, financial intermediaries have sold assets
in the global public capital markets, in addition to, or instead of, retaining those assets. Recent credit market disruptions which began in mid-2007 initially slowed the trend of disintermediation globally, but Moody’s believes that debt
capital markets offer advantages in capacity and efficiency compared to the traditional banking systems. In fact, disintermediation has accelerated in some markets over the past year as deleveraging by banks has encouraged corporations and other
entities to seek alternative funding in bond



MOODY’S2011 10-K9




markets, while in key emerging markets strong economic growth is out pacing banking system capacity. Thus, disintermediation is expected to accelerate in the longer-term, with Moody’s
continuing to target investment and resources to growing international markets where disintermediation and bond issuance should remain more robust.

In
response to the 2008-2009 credit crisis, and to address new regulation and ongoing volatility in the capital markets, financial institutions are investing in people, processes and systems to enhance risk management and compliance functions.
Regulations such as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, Basel II, Basel III, Solvency II and others may stimulate demand for Moody’s Analytics products. Financial institutions are also investing in advanced
qualitative and quantitative tools and services to support their management of complex balance sheets and diverse portfolios. Moody’s Analytics offers a suite of risk management products and services to address these needs, including but not
limited to risk management software, economic analysis, training and professional services.

Legislative bodies and regulators in the U.S., Europe and
selective other jurisdictions continue to conduct regulatory reviews of CRAs, which may result in, for example, an increased number of competitors, changes to the business model or restrictions on certain business activities of MIS, or increased
costs of doing business for MIS. Therefore, in order to broaden the potential for expansion of non-ratings services, Moody’s reorganized in January 2008 into two distinct businesses: MIS, consisting solely of the ratings business, and MA. MA
conducts all non-ratings activities including the sale of credit research produced by MIS and the production and sale of other economic and credit-related products and services. The reorganization broadens the opportunities for expansion by MA into
activities which may have otherwise been restricted for MIS, due to the potential for conflicts of interest with the ratings business. At present, Moody’s is unable to assess the nature and effect that any regulatory changes may
have on future growth opportunities.

Moody’s operations are subject to various risks, as more fully described in Part I, Item 1A “Risk
Factors,” inherent in conducting business internationally. Such risks include currency fluctuations and possible nationalization, expropriation, exchange and price controls, changes in the availability of data from public sector sources, limits
on providing information across borders and other restrictive governmental actions. Management believes that the risks of nationalization or expropriation are reduced because the Company’s basic service is the creation and dissemination of
information, rather than the production of products that require manufacturing facilities or the use of natural resources. However, the formation of, for example, a new government-sponsored regional or global rating agency would pose a risk to
MIS’s growth prospects. Management believes that this risk, compared to other regulatory changes under consideration for the credit rating industry, is relatively low because of the likelihood that substantial investments over a sustained
period would be required, with uncertainty about the likelihood of financial success for the entity.

COMPETITION

The MIS business competes with other CRAs and with investment banks and brokerage firms that offer credit opinions and research. Many users of
MIS’s ratings also have in-house credit research capabilities. MIS’s largest competitor in the global credit rating business is Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. There are some
rating markets, based on industry, geography and/or instrument type, in which Moody’s has made investments and obtained market positions superior to S&P Ratings Services, while in other markets, the reverse is true.

In addition to S&P Ratings Services, MIS’s competitors include Fitch Ratings, Dominion Bond Rating Service Ltd., A.M. Best Company Inc., Japan Credit
Rating Agency Ltd., Kroll Bond Rating Agency Inc., Morningstar Inc. and Egan-Jones Ratings Company. In Europe, examples of competitors include Euler Hermes Rating, Feri EuroRating, Creditreform Rating, PSR Rating, ICAP Group and Companhia Portuguesa
de Rating. There are additional competitors in other regions and countries, for example, in China where Moody’s operates through a joint venture. These competitors include China Lianhe Credit Rating Co Ltd., Shanghai Brilliance Credit
Rating & Investors Service Co Ltd., Dagong Global Credit Rating Co Ltd. and Pengyuan Credit Rating Co Ltd.

MA competes broadly in the financial
information industry against diversified competitors such as Thomson Reuters Markets Division, Bloomberg, S&P Capital IQ/S&P Indices, Fitch Solutions, Dun & Bradstreet, IBM, Wolters Kluwer, Sungard, SAS, Fiserv, MSCI and Markit
Group among others. MA’s main competitors within RD&A include S&P Capital IQ/S&P Indices, CreditSights, Thomson-Reuters, Intex, IHS Global Insight, BlackRock Solutions, FactSet and other smaller boutique providers of fixed income
analytics, valuations, economic data and research. In RMS, MA faces competition from both large software providers such as IBM Algorithmics, SunGard, SAS, Oracle, Mysis, Oliver Wyman, Verisk and other various smaller vendors and in-house solutions.
Within professional services, MA competes with Omega Performance, DC Gardner, and a host of financial training and education boutiques, and with Evalueserve, AMBA, CRISIL Global Research & Analytics, and other providers of outsourced
research and consulting services.



10MOODY’S2011 10-K




MOODY’S STRATEGY

Moody’s corporate strategy is to be the world’s most respected authority serving credit sensitive markets. The key aspects to implement this strategy are to:



•Defend and enhance the core business



•Invest in growth

Moody’s will invest to
defend and enhance the core businesses in an attempt to position the Company to fully capture market opportunities resulting from global debt capital market expansion and increased business investment spending. Moody’s will also make strategic
investments to achieve scale in attractive financial information markets, move into attractive adjacencies where the Company can leverage its core competencies and expand our footprint in high growth emerging markets.

To broaden the Company’s potential, Moody’s reorganized in 2008, creating the MA business focused on all non-ratings activities. This adds considerable
value in three ways. First, MA adds a significant base of recurring revenue to offset potential volatility in ratings issuance volumes impacting MIS. Second, MA provides a foothold in emerging markets, selling products and services, such as
training, consulting and bank system implementation, before these debt capital markets are fully mature. Finally, MA provides holistic financial risk management credit solutions sought by the Company’s customers.

Moody’s invests in a portfolio of initiatives to implement our strategy through organic development and targeted acquisitions. Example initiatives include:



•Risk management software and services



•Expansion in emerging markets



•New products and services such as CreditView and RiskCalc China

The 2011 acquisitions of Barrie & Hibbert and majority stake in the companies of Copal Partners advanced Moody’s strategy. B&H is a leading provider of risk management modeling tools for insurance
companies worldwide. Copal is among the world’s leading providers of outsourced research and analytical services to institutional customers. Both companies will help the Company pursue its objective to be the world’s foremost authority and
services provider in credit risk-sensitive markets.

REGULATION

MIS and many of the securities that it rates are subject to extensive regulation in both the U.S. and in other countries (including by state and local authorities). Thus, existing and proposed laws and regulations
can impact the Company’s operations and the markets for securities that it rates. Additional laws and regulations have been adopted but not yet implemented or have been proposed or are being considered. Each of the existing, adopted, proposed
and potential laws and regulations can increase the costs and legal risk associated with the issuance of credit ratings and may negatively impact Moody’s operations or profitability, the Company’s ability to compete, or result in changes
in the demand for credit ratings, in the manner in which ratings are utilized and in the manner in which Moody’s operates.

In the U.S., MIS has
been designated as an NRSRO by the SEC since 1975 and, pursuant to the substantive regulatory authority granted to the SEC under the Credit Rating Agency Reform Act of 2006, has been registered as an NRSRO since September 2007. The Reform Act
provided the SEC with authority to oversee NRSROs, while prohibiting the SEC from regulating the substance of credit ratings or the procedures and methodologies by which any NRSRO determines credit ratings. Pursuant to the Reform Act, the SEC has
adopted regulations applicable to rating agencies which register as NRSROs, addressing among other things:



•the NRSRO application and registration process;



•recordkeeping, financial reporting, prevention of misuse of material non-public information, conflicts of interest, and prohibited acts and practices;



•additional requirements for managing conflicts of interest, enhancing record keeping requirements, and improving transparency of ratings performance and
methodologies;



•additional disclosure requirements applicable to rating histories; and



•a prohibition on rating structured finance products unless the issuer makes the same information accessible to all NRSROs that it provides to any NRSRO that it
hires to rate the product.



MOODY’S2011 10-K11




Provisions of the Financial Reform Act, which was enacted in 2010, seek, among other things, to enhance transparency
and accountability in the credit rating agency industry, and to reduce the regulatory reliance on credit ratings. The majority of the provisions of Subtitle C of Title IX of the Financial Reform Act seek to regulate the activities of those CRAs that
are registered under the SEC’s regulatory framework for NRSROs, and thus apply to MIS.

Among other provisions applicable to NRSROs, the Financial
Reform Act:



•rescinded Rule 436(g) under the Securities Act of 1933 (the “Securities Act”), which provided NRSROs with an exemption from expert liability under the
Securities Act when ratings information was included in a registration statement relating to a securities offering.



•created new pleading standards that may affect NRSROs’ liability in cases brought against them;



•heightened compliance standards, including by adoption of enhanced corporate governance and conflicts of interest policies and procedures, implementation of
professional standards for credit analysts and providing for periodic compliance examinations;



•increased public disclosures by NRSROs, including disclosure of the ratings process and methodology, factors relied upon in formulating ratings, results of
third-party due diligence and accuracy of prior ratings;



•deleted or replaced references to credit ratings in certain federal laws and mandated that federal agencies delete or replace references to credit ratings in
their regulations; and



•mandated that the SEC study the feasibility of establishing a system in which a utility or a self-regulatory organization assigns NRSROs to determine the credit
ratings of structured finance products to address so-called “rating-shopping” by issuers and underwriters of structured financial products.

The SEC and other federal regulators are in the process of implementing provisions of the Financial Reform Act applicable to NRSROs and rating agencies. Events surrounding the implementation have included:



•In September 2011, an SEC rule went into effect requiring NRSROs to disclose information about the representations and warranties of the structured finance
securities they rate;



•In July 2011, the SEC adopted a rule that removed references to credit ratings in certain rules and forms applicable to issuers; and



•Financial institution regulators closed the comment period on proposed alternatives to credit ratings that could be incorporated into banking regulations.

The SEC also has adopted or proposed a number of regulations affecting securities that are rated by MIS and that otherwise affect the
market for ratings, including proposals to require disclosure about credit ratings in certain registered securities offerings, and rules affecting disclosures and the operation of the structured finance products.

Internationally, several regulatory developments have occurred:

EU—In 2009, the European Parliament passed a new regulation (“EU Regulation”) that establishes an oversight regime for the CRA industry in the
European Union. The framework for the EU Regulation requires the registration, formal regulation and periodic inspection of CRAs operating in the EU. The EU Regulation also sets out specific requirements for the use of ratings that are produced
outside of the EU and are used for regulatory purposes in the EU. Among these is a requirement for the relevant competent authority in the EU and the competent authority of the non-EU jurisdiction where that rating has been produced to enter into a
cooperation agreement containing provisions related to the exchange of information and the coordination of supervisory activities. The EU Regulation became fully effective in September 2010. MIS applied for registration in August 2010 and was
granted registration in October 2011. In addition, the European Securities and Market Authority (ESMA) was established in January 2011 and has had direct supervisory responsibility for registered CRA industry in the EU since July 2011.

The regulatory framework of the CRA industry continues to be discussed in the European Union.

In November 2011, the European Commission issued proposed amendments to its existing regulations. If enacted as proposed, the revised regulations, among other things, would:



•impose various additional procedural requirements with respect to ratings of sovereign issuers;



•require member states to adopt laws imposing liability on credit rating agencies for an intentional or grossly negligent failure to abide by the applicable
regulations;



•potentially impose a greater burden of proof on credit rating agencies accused of failing to abide by applicable regulations;



12MOODY’S2011 10-K




•impose mandatory rotation requirements on the rating agencies hired by issuers of securities, thereby limiting the number of years a credit rating agency can
issue ratings for securities of a particular issuer;



•enhance ESMA’s role in reviewing rating methodologies; and



•impose additional procedural and substantive requirements on the pricing of services.

The next stages of the legislative process include deliberation and potential amendments by both the European Parliament and the Council of European Finance Ministers. The Parliament, Council and Commission must
all confer and agree on a final text. The Company expects this process may take from four to eight months, during which time Moody’s will continue to consult with relevant authorities and market participants as to the impact of the specific
proposals on the financial markets, issuers and investors.

The G-8 and the G-20 have over the past several years:



•Committed to implement oversight of the CRAs, consistent with the strengthened International Organization of Securities Commissions’ Code of Conduct,
described below, and agreed that, in the medium term, countries should implement a registration system for CRAs;



•Agreed to extend regulatory oversight to and require registration of CRAs in order to ensure that they adhere to the international code of good practice; and



•Expressed the view that the development of good practices for due diligence by asset managers investing in structured finance products will result in reduced
reliance on credit ratings.

IOSCO has published a Code of Conduct Fundamentals for Credit Rating Agencies. In 2009, IOSCO published
its second review of the CRAs implementation of the IOSCO Code. The report noted that seven out of the 21 CRAs reviewed had implemented the IOSCO Code in their own codes of conduct. In particular, MIS was found to have substantially implemented the
2008 revisions to the IOSCO Code. In addition, IOSCO announced in 2009 the establishment of a new standing committee that will address global issues regarding the CRA industry.

MIS has revised its Code of Professional Conduct (fashioned on the IOSCO Code) on several occasions to reflect the changes made to the IOSCO Code and the broader changes in the regulatory environment for CRAs.
Beginning in 2006, MIS has annually published a report that describes its implementation of its Code. The MIS Code and implementation reports can be found on the Company’s website.

The Basel Committee—In 2004, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision published a bank capital adequacy framework, called Basel II, to replace its initial 1988 framework. Under Basel II, ratings assigned by
recognized CRAs or ECAIs, can be used by banks in determining credit risk weights for many of their institutional credit exposures. Recognized ECAIs could be subject to a broader range of oversight. MIS has been recognized as an ECAI in many
jurisdictions. As a result of the recent developments in the financial markets, the banking authorities of the Basel Committee have been reconsidering the overall framework. Work on the new framework, Basel III, is now complete. It is to be
implemented in stages, beginning in 2010 and concluding in 2018. Basel III continues to use credit ratings as a tool in bank supervision, however the form and extent of this use is currently under debate by global prudential regulators.

Other legislation and regulation relating to credit rating and research services is being considered by local, national and multinational bodies and this type of
activity is likely to continue in the future. In addition, in certain countries, governments may provide financial or other support to locally-based rating agencies. For example, governments may from time to time establish official rating agencies
or credit ratings criteria or procedures for evaluating local issuers. If enacted, any such legislation and regulation could change the competitive landscape in which MIS operates. The legal status of rating agencies has been addressed by courts in
various decisions and is likely to be considered and addressed in legal proceedings from time to time in the future. Management of MIS cannot predict whether these or any other proposals will be enacted, the outcome of any pending or possible future
legal proceedings, or regulatory or legislative actions, or the ultimate impact of any such matters on the competitive position, financial position or results of operations of Moody’s.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

Moody’s and its affiliates own and control a variety of
intellectual property, including but not limited to proprietary information, trademarks, research, software tools and applications, models and methodologies, databases, domain names, and other proprietary materials that, in the aggregate, are of
material importance to Moody’s business. Management of Moody’s believes that each of the trademarks and related corporate names, marks and logos containing the term “Moody’s” are of material importance to the Company.

The Company, primarily through MA, licenses certain of its databases, software applications, credit risk models, training courses in credit risk and
capital markets, research and other publications and services that contain Intellectual Property to its customers. These licenses are provided pursuant to standard fee-bearing agreements containing customary restrictions and intellectual property
protections.



MOODY’S2011 10-K13




In addition, Moody’s licenses certain technology and other intellectual property rights owned and controlled by
others. Specifically, Moody’s licenses financial information (such as market and index data, financial statement data, third party research, default data, and security identifiers) as well as software development tools and libraries. The
Company obtains such technology and intellectual property rights from generally available commercial sources. Most of such technology and intellectual property is available from a variety of sources. Although certain financial information
(particularly security identifiers and certain pricing or index data) is available only from a limited number of sources, Moody’s does not believe it is dependent on any one data source for a material aspect of its business.

The Company considers its Intellectual Property to be proprietary, and Moody’s relies on a combination of copyright, trademark, trade secret, patent,
non-disclosure and other contractual safeguards for protection. Moody’s also pursues instances of third-party infringement of its Intellectual Property in order to protect the Company’s rights. The Company owns a single, non-material
patent. None of the Intellectual Property is subject to a specific expiration date, except to the extent that the copyright in items that the Company authors (such as credit reports, research, and other written opinions) expires pursuant to relevant
law, currently 95 years from first publication in the US; and the single patent that Moody’s owns expires in 2028.

The names of Moody’s
products and services referred to herein are trademarks, service marks or registered trademarks or service marks owned by or licensed to Moody’s or one or more of its subsidiaries.

EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 2011 the number of full-time equivalent employees
of Moody’s was approximately 6,100.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

Moody’s investor relations Internet website is http://ir.moodys.com/. Under the “SEC Filings” tab at this website, the Company makes available free
of charge its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with, or furnished to, the SEC.

The SEC maintains an internet site that contains annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and other information statements that the Company files electronically
with the SEC. The SEC’s internet site is http://www.sec.gov/.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT



NAME, AGE AND POSITION ———————————————————BIOGRAPHICAL DATA
———————————————————————————————————————————



Mark E. Almeida, 52President—Moody’s AnalyticsMr. Almeida has served as President of Moody’s Analytics since January 2008. Prior to this position, Mr. Almeida was Senior Vice President of Moody’s Corporation from August 2007 to January
2008, Senior Managing Director of the Investor Services Group (ISG) at Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. from December 2004 to January 2008 and was Group Managing Director of ISG from June 2000 to December 2004. Mr. Almeida joined Moody’s
Investors Service, Inc. in April 1988 and has held a variety of positions with the company in both the U.S. and overseas.



Richard Cantor, 54Chief Risk OfficerMr. Cantor has served as Chief Risk Officer of Moody’s Corporation since December 2008 and as Chief Credit Officer of Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. since November 2008. From July 2008 to
November 2008, Mr. Cantor served as Acting Chief Credit Officer. Prior thereto, Mr. Cantor was Managing Director of Moody’s Credit Policy Research Group from June 2001 to July 2008, after serving as Senior Vice President in the Financial
Guarantors Rating Group. Mr. Cantor joined Moody’s in 1997 from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, where he served as Assistant Vice President in the Research Group and was Staff Director at the Discount Window. Prior to the Federal Reserve,
Mr. Cantor taught Economics at UCLA and Ohio State and has taught on an adjunct basis at the business schools of Columbia University and New York University.



14MOODY’S2011 10-K








Robert Fauber, 41Senior Vice President—CorporateDevelopmentMr. Fauber has served as Senior Vice President—Corporate Development of Moody’s Corporation since April 2009 and as Vice President-Corporate Development since he joined
Moody’s in September 2005 to April 2009. Prior to joining Moody’s, Mr. Fauber served in several roles at Citigroup from 1999 to 2005, including most recently, Director of Planning and Business Development for Citigroup’s Alternative
Investments division. Prior to that, Mr. Fauber worked as a Director in Corporate Strategy & Business Development for Citigroup and a Vice President and Associate in the Financial Sponsor and Telecom investment banking groups at the firm’s
Salomon Smith Barney subsidiary. From 1992-1996, Mr. Fauber worked at NationsBank (now Bank of America), working in the middle market commercial banking group and also ran the firm’s Global Finance college recruiting program in
1997.



John J. Goggins, 51Executive Vice President and
GeneralCounselMr. Goggins has served as the Company’s Executive Vice President and General Counsel since April 2011 and the Company’s Senior Vice President and General Counsel from October
2000 until April 2011. Mr. Goggins joined Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. in February 1999 as Vice President and Associate General Counsel. Prior thereto, he served as counsel at Dow Jones & Company from 1995 to 1999, where he was
responsible for securities, acquisitions and general corporate matters. Prior to Dow Jones, he was an associate at Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft from 1985 to 1995, where he specialized in mergers and acquisitions.



Linda S. Huber, 53Executive Vice President and ChiefFinancial OfficerMs. Huber has served as the Company’s Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since May 2005. Prior thereto, she served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer at U.S. Trust Company, a subsidiary of Charles Schwab & Company, Inc., from 2003 to 2005. Prior to U.S. Trust, she was Managing Director at Freeman & Co. from 1998 through 2002. She served PepsiCo as Vice President of Corporate
Strategy and Development from 1997 until 1998 and as Vice President and Assistant Treasurer from 1994 until 1997. She served as Vice President in the Energy Investment Banking Group at Bankers Trust Company from 1991 until 1994 and as an Associate
in the Energy Group at First Boston Corporation from 1986 through 1990. She also held the rank of Captain in the U.S. Army where she served from 1980 to 1984.



Michel Madelain, 56President and
Chief Operating Officer—Moody’s Investors ServiceMr. Madelain has served as President of Moody’s Investors Service Inc. since November 2010 and as Chief Operating Officer since May 2008. Prior to this, Mr. Madelain served as
Executive Vice President, Fundamental Ratings from September 2007 to May 2008, with responsibility for all Global Fundamental Ratings, including Corporate Finance, Financial Institutions, Public Finance and Infrastructure Finance. He managed the
Financial Institutions group from March 2007 until September 2007. Mr. Madelain served as Group Managing Director, EMEA Corporate Ratings from November 2000 to March 2007 and prior thereto held several Managing Director positions in the U.S. and
U.K. Fundamental Rating Groups. Prior to joining Moody’s in 1994, Mr. Madelain served as a Partner of Ernst & Young, Auditing Practice. Mr. Madelain is qualified as a Chartered Accountant in France.



Joseph (Jay) McCabe, 61Senior Vice
President—CorporateControllerMr. McCabe has served as the Company’s Senior Vice President—Corporate Controller since December 2005. Mr. McCabe joined Moody’s in July 2004 as Vice President and
Corporate Controller. Before joining the Company, he served as Vice President—Corporate Controller at PPL Corporation, an energy and utility holding company, from 1994 to 2003. Prior to PPL Corporation, he served Deloitte & Touche as
Partner from 1984 to 1993 and as a member of the firm’s audit practice from 1973 to 1984.



MOODY’S2011 10-K15






Raymond W. McDaniel, Jr., 54Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerRaymond W. McDaniel, Jr., has served as the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company since April 2005 and serves on the MIS and International Business Development Committees of
the Board of Directors. Mr. McDaniel served as the Company’s President from October 2004 until April 2005 and the Company’s Chief Operating Officer from January 2004 until April 2005. He has served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
of Moody’s Investors Service, Inc., a subsidiary of the Company, since October 2007 and held the additional title of President from November 2001 to August 2007 and December 2008 to November 2010. Mr. McDaniel served as the Company’s
Executive Vice President from April 2003 to January 2004, and as Senior Vice President, Global Ratings and Research from November 2000 until April 2003. He served as Senior Managing Director, Global Ratings and Research, of Moody’s Investors
Service from November 2000 until November 2001 and as Managing Director, International from 1996 to November 2000. Mr. McDaniel currently is a Director of John Wiley & Sons, Inc.



Lisa S. Westlake, 50Senior Vice President and Chief HumanResource OfficerMs. Westlake has served as the Company’s Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer since November 2008. Prior to this position, Ms. Westlake served as Vice
President—Investor Relations from December 2006 to December 2008 and Managing Director—Finance from September 2004 to December 2006. Prior to joining the Company, Ms. Westlake was a senior consultant with the Schiff Consulting Group from
2003 to 2004. From 1996 to 2003 Ms. Westlake worked at American Express Company where she held several different positions such as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for the OPEN Small Business Network, Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer for Establishment Services and Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for Relationship Services. From 1989 to 1995 Ms. Westlake held a range of financial management positions at Dun & Bradstreet Corporation and its subsidiary at the
time, IMS International. From 1984 to 1987 Ms. Westlake served at Lehman Brothers in both the investment banking and municipal trading areas.



