ITEM 1.BUSINESS

BACKGROUND

As used in this report, except where the context indicates otherwise, the terms “Moody’s” or the “Company” refer to
Moody’s Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and its subsidiaries. The Company’s executive offices are located at 7 World Trade Center at 250 Greenwich Street, New York, NY 10007 and its telephone number is (212) 553-0300. Prior to
September 30, 2000, the Company operated as part of The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation.

THE COMPANY

Moody’s is a provider of (i) credit ratings, (ii) credit and economic related research, data and analytical tools, (iii) risk
management software and (iv) quantitative credit risk measures, credit portfolio management solutions and training services. In 2007 and prior years, Moody’s operated in two reportable segments: Moody’s Investors Service and
Moody’s KMV. Beginning in January 2008, Moody’s segments were changed to reflect the Reorganization announced in August 2007 and Moody’s now reports in two new reportable segments: MIS and Moody’s Analytics. As a result of the
Reorganization, the rating agency remains in the MIS operating segment and several ratings business lines have been realigned. All of Moody’s other non-rating commercial activities are included within the new MA segment. Financial information
and operating results of these segments, including revenue, expenses, operating income and total assets, are included in Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements of this annual report, and are herein incorporated by reference.

MIS, the credit rating agency, publishes credit ratings on a wide range of debt obligations and the entities that issue such obligations in markets worldwide,
including various corporate and governmental obligations, structured finance securities and commercial paper programs. Revenue is derived from the originators and issuers of such transactions who use MIS ratings to support the distribution of their
debt issues to investors. MIS provides ratings in more than 110 countries. Ratings are disseminated via press releases to the public through a variety of print and electronic media, including the Internet and real-time information systems widely
used by securities traders and investors. As of December 31, 2009, MIS had ratings relationships with approximately 12,000 corporate issuers and approximately 25,000 public finance issuers. Additionally, the Company has rated and currently
monitors ratings on approximately 106,000 structured finance obligations (representing approximately 16,000 transactions).

The MA segment develops a
wide range of products and services that support the risk management activities of institutional participants in global financial markets. Within its Research, Data and Analytics business, MA distributes investor-oriented research and data developed
by MIS as part of its ratings process, including in-depth research on major debt issuers, industry studies, commentary on topical credit related events and also provides economic research and credit data and analytical tools such as quantitative
credit risk scores. Within its Risk Management Software business, MA provides both economic and regulatory capital risk management software and implementation services. Within its professional services business it provides quantitative credit risk
measures, credit portfolio management solutions and training services. MA customers represent more than 4,800 institutions worldwide operating in approximately 115 countries. Throughout 2009, Moody's research web site was accessed by 174,000
individuals and by users representing 29,000 client relationships.

The Company operated as part of “Old D&B” until September 30,
2000, when Old D&B separated into two publicly traded companies – Moody’s Corporation and New D&B. At that time, Old D&B distributed to its shareholders shares of New D&B stock. New D&B comprised the business of Old
D&B’s Dun & Bradstreet operating company. The remaining business of Old D&B consisted solely of the business of providing ratings and related research and credit risk management services and was renamed Moody’s
Corporation. For purposes of governing certain ongoing relationships between the Company and New D&B after the 2000 Distribution and to provide for an orderly transition, the Company and New D&B entered into various agreements including a
distribution agreement, tax allocation agreement and employee benefits agreement.



8MOODY’S2009 10-K






PROSPECTS FOR
GROWTH

Growth in global fixed-income markets is attributable to a number of
forces and trends. Advances in information technology make information about investment alternatives widely available throughout the world. Technology facilitates issuers’ ability to place securities outside their national markets and
investors’ capacity to obtain information about securities issued outside their national markets. Technology allows issuers and investors the ability to more readily obtain information about new financing techniques and new types of securities
that they may wish to purchase or sell, which in the absence of the appropriate technology may not be easily obtainable. This availability of information promotes the ongoing integration and development of worldwide financial markets and a greater
need for credible, globally comparable opinions about credit risk. As a result, existing capital markets have expanded and a number of new capital markets have emerged. In addition, more issuers and investors are accessing developed capital markets.
Information technology also provides opportunities to further build a global platform to support Moody’s continued expansion in developing markets.

Another trend in the world’s capital markets is the disintermediation of financial systems. Issuers increasingly raise capital in the global public capital markets, in addition to, or in substitution for, traditional financial
intermediaries. Moreover, financial intermediaries have sold assets in the global public capital markets, in addition to or instead of retaining those assets. Recent credit market disruptions have slowed the trend of disintermediation globally, but
Moody’s believes that debt capital markets offer advantages in capacity and efficiency compared to the traditional banking systems. Thus, disintermediation is expected to accelerate in the longer-term, with Moody’s continuing to target
investment and resources to growing international markets where disintermediation and bond issuance should remain more robust.

The strong growth trend
seen in the issuance of structured finance securities reversed dramatically in 2008 due to market turmoil, with continued declines seen in 2009. The market disruptions that escalated in 2008 are expected to continue in the immediate term, however
Moody’s expects to see some revenue stabilization from this market in 2010. Despite significant declines from peak market levels, Moody’s believes that structured finance securities will continue to play a role in global credit markets,
and provide opportunities for longer term growth. Moody’s will continue to monitor and support the progress of this market and adapt to meet the changing needs of its participants.

Rating fees paid by debt issuers account for most of the revenue of MIS. Therefore, a substantial portion of MIS’s revenue is dependent upon the volume and number of ratable debt securities issued in the
global capital markets. Moody’s results can be affected by factors such as the performance, and the prospects for growth, of the major world economies, the fiscal and monetary policies pursued by their governments, and the decisions of issuers
to request MIS ratings to aid investors in their investment decision process. However, annual fee arrangements with frequent debt issuers, annual debt monitoring fees and annual fees from commercial paper and medium-term note programs, bank and
insurance company financial strength ratings, mutual fund ratings, subscription-based research and other areas partially mitigate Moody’s dependence on the volume or number of debt securities issued in the global capital markets.

Moody’s operations are also subject to various risks inherent in conducting business internationally. Such risks include currency fluctuations and possible
nationalization, expropriation, exchange and price controls, changes in the availability of data from public sector sources, limits on providing information across borders and other restrictive governmental actions. Management believes that the
risks of nationalization or expropriation are reduced because the Company’s basic service is the creation and dissemination of information, rather than the production of products that require manufacturing facilities or the use of natural
resources. However, the formation of, for example, a new government-sponsored regional or global rating agency would pose a risk to Moody’s growth prospects. Management believes that this risk, compared to other regulatory changes under
consideration for the credit rating industry, is relatively low because of the likelihood that substantial investments over a sustained period would be required, with uncertainty about the likelihood of financial success for the entity.



MOODY’S2009 10-K9






Legislative bodies and regulators in the
U.S., Europe and selective other jurisdictions continue to conduct regulatory reviews of CRAs, which may result in, for example, an increased number of competitors, changes to the business model or restrictions on certain business activities of MIS,
or increased costs of doing business for Moody’s. Therefore, in order to broaden the potential for expansion of non-ratings services, Moody’s reorganized in January 2008 into two distinct businesses: MIS, consisting solely of the ratings
business, and MA. MA conducts all non-ratings activities including the sale of credit research produced by MIS and the production and sale of other economic and credit-related products and services. The reorganization broadens the opportunities for
expansion by MA into activities which may have otherwise been restricted for MIS, due to the potential for conflicts of interest with the ratings business. At present, Moody’s is unable to assess the nature and effect that any
regulatory changes may have on future growth opportunities.

MA expects to benefit from the growing demand among credit market participants for
information that enables them to make sound investment and risk management decisions. These customers require advanced qualitative and quantitative tools to support their management of increasingly complex capital market instruments. Such complexity
creates analytical challenges for market participants, including financial intermediaries, asset managers and other investors. In recent years, reliable third-party ratings and research served to supplement or substitute for traditional in-house
research as the scale, geographic scope and complexity of financial markets grew. Moody’s remains focused on driving improvements in customer retention, product placements and new customer acquisition in this area.

Recent disruptions in credit markets have resulted in higher than normal customer attrition in MA. Moody’s remains focused on driving improvements in customer
retention, product placements and new customer acquisition and expects to sustain reliance on its offerings as enhancements to credit rating methodologies and other changes in securities origination processes restore investor confidence and more
orderly market operations.

Growth in MA is also expected as financial institutions adopt active credit portfolio management practices and implement
internal credit assessment tools for compliance with Basel II regulations. MA offers products that respond to these needs. This growth will be realized by, for example, the development of new private firm default probability models for specific
countries and by expanding analysis capabilities of new asset classes.

COMPETITION

The MIS business competes with other CRAs and with investment banks and brokerage firms that offer credit opinions and research. Many of Moody’s customers also
have in-house credit research capabilities. Moody’s largest competitor in the global credit rating business is Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. There are some rating markets, based
on industry, geography and/or instrument type, in which Moody’s has made investments and obtained market positions superior to S&P’s while in other markets, the reverse is true.

In addition to S&P, Moody’s competitors include Fitch, Dominion Bond Rating Service Ltd. of Canada, A.M. Best Company Inc, Japan Credit Rating Agency Ltd.,
Rating and Investment Information Inc. of Japan and Egan-Jones Ratings Company. In 2008 two more firms were granted the Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations status in the U.S: LACE Financial Corp. and Realpoint LLC. Additional
rating agencies may emerge in the U.S. as the SEC continues to expand the number of NRSROs. Other competition may arise in the U.S. from credit opinion providers who do not operate as NRSRO’s, such as Morningstar or Coface. Competition may also
increase in developed or developing markets outside the U.S. over the next few years as the number of rating agencies increases, although a more regulated credit ratings industry, both domestic and internationally, may provide for a less appealing
expansion territory.

The increased regulatory focus on credit risk presents both opportunities and challenges for Moody’s. Global demand for credit
ratings and risk management services may rise, but regulatory actions may result in a greater number of rating agencies and/or additional regulation of Moody’s and its competitors. Alternatively, banking or securities market regulators could
seek to reduce the use of ratings in regulations, thereby reducing certain elements of demand for ratings, or otherwise seek to control the analysis or business of rating agencies.

Credit rating agencies such as MIS also compete with other means of managing credit risk, such as credit insurance. Competitors that develop quantitative methodologies for assessing credit risk also may pose a
competitive threat to Moody’s.

MA competes broadly in the financial information space against diversified competitors such as Thomson-Reuters,
Bloomberg, RiskMetrics, S&P, Fitch, Dun & Bradstreet, and Markit Group among others. MA’s main competitors within RD&A include S&P, Fitch Algorithmics, CreditSights, Thomson-Reuters, Intex, IHS Global Insight, BlackRock
Solutions and other smaller boutique providers of fixed income analytics, valuations, economic data and research. In RMS, MA faces competition from Fitch Algorithmics, SunGard, SAS, Oracle and other various smaller vendors and in-house solutions.
Within professional services, MA competes with Oliver Wyman for certain credit risk advisory services, with Omega Performance, DC Gardner, and a host of boutique providers for financial training.



10MOODY’S2009 10-K






MOODY’S
STRATEGY

Moody’s continues to follow growth strategies that adapt to market conditions and capitalize on emerging opportunities:

Given recent market turmoil, Moody’s immediate focus is on making effective business decisions to adapt to challenging economic and market conditions while
positioning the Company to benefit from an eventual recovery in global credit market activity.

Given the renewed attention to risk analysis and risk
management, Moody’s is committed to further encouraging the informed use of credit ratings, research and related analytics products.

Moody’s
seeks to differentiate itself from incumbent and potential competitors with predictive, uniquely thoughtful and forward-looking opinions about credit and the credit industry.

Adapting to market change is a key factor in maintaining market relevance. Moody’s continuously monitors opportunities to selectively diversify its revenue base through organic growth and acquisitions, in
order to replace areas of lost revenue and position the Company for new sources of business.

In support of those goals Moody’s intends to continue
its focus in the following areas:

Expansion in Financial Centers

Moody’s serves its customers through its global network of offices and business affiliations. Moody’s currently maintains comprehensive
rating and commercial operations in financial centers including Buenos Aires, Dubai, Frankfurt, Hong Kong, London, Madrid, Milan, Mexico City, Moscow, New York, Paris, Sao Paolo, Seoul, Singapore, Sydney, Tokyo and Toronto. Moody’s expects that
its global network will position it to benefit from the expansion of worldwide capital markets and thereby increase revenue. Moody’s also expects that the growth of its MIS business as a consequence of financial market integration in Europe
will return. Additionally, Moody’s expects to continue its expansion into developing markets either directly or through joint ventures. This will allow Moody’s to extend its credit opinion franchise to local and regional obligors, through
domestic currency ratings and national scale ratings.

New Rating Products

Moody’s continues to respond to investor demand for new products and enhancements. In the recent market turmoil, attention to core strengths has
been crucial and enhancements have and continue to be focused on quality and transparency. Given the particular disruption in the structured finance markets, MIS has been developing enhanced structured finance offerings to meet investor demands for
more information content. Leveraging the diversity of its research data and analytics, Moody’s has introduced cross-sector analysis to better illustrate the broader impacts of recent market events. This is further enhanced by the incorporation
of macroeconomics to frame conditions and assumptions. MIS continues to capitalize on market developments and enhance ratings surveillance efficiency, focusing on new ratings products, such as hedge fund operations quality ratings, and to identify,
design, develop and maintain value-added research, analytics and data products serving the capital markets.

Internet-Enhanced
Products and Services

Moody’s is expanding its use of the Internet and other electronic media to enhance customer service.
Moody’s website provides the public with instant access to ratings and provides the public and subscribers with credit research and risk assessment tools. Internet delivery also enables Moody’s to provide services to more individuals
within a customer organization than were available with paper-based products and to offer higher-value services because of more timely delivery. Moody’s expects that access to these applications will increase customer use of Moody’s
services. Moody’s expects to continue to invest in electronic media to capitalize on these and other opportunities.

Expansion of
Credit Research Products and Investment Analytic Tools

Moody’s plans to expand its research and analytic services through
internal development and potentially through acquisitions. Most new product initiatives are more analytical and data-intensive than traditional narrative research offerings. Such services address investor interest in replicating the types of
monitoring activities conducted by Moody’s analysts and provide the means for customers to gain access to raw data and financial statistics and ratios used by MIS in the rating process for municipalities, companies and financial institutions.
These products represent important sources of growth for the research business. MA is developing products in the fixed-income valuations and pricing arena that facilitate price transparency in global fixed income markets, especially for complex
structured securities and derivative instruments. Moreover, Moody’s continues to explore opportunities to extend its research relevance in new domestic or regional markets (e.g., China) as well as new functional markets (e.g., hedge funds).

New Quantitative Credit Risk Assessment Services

Moody’s will continue to provide banks and other institutions with quantitative credit risk assessment solutions. Moody’s believes that there will be increased demand for such services because they assist
customers trading or holding credit-sensitive assets to better manage risk and deliver better performance. Also, international bank regulatory authorities are assessing the adequacy of banks’ internal credit risk management systems for the
purpose of determining regulatory capital. The acquisition of Fermat accelerates Moody’s capabilities in this area. Such regulatory initiatives create demand for, and encourage adoption of, related services by banks from third-party providers.



MOODY’S2009 10-K11






REGULATION

In the U.S., since 1975, MIS has been designated as an NRSRO by the SEC. The SEC first applied the NRSRO designation in that year to companies whose
credit ratings could be used by broker-dealers for purposes of determining their net capital requirements. Since that time, Congress, the SEC and other governmental and private bodies have used the ratings of NRSROs to distinguish between
“investment-grade” and “non-investment-grade” securities, among other purposes.

In September 2006, the Credit Rating Agency Reform
Act of 2006 was passed, which created a voluntary registration process for rating agencies wishing to be designated as NRSROs. The Reform Act provides the SEC with authority to oversee NRSROs, while prohibiting the SEC from regulating the substance
of credit ratings or the procedures and methodologies by which any NRSRO determines credit ratings. In June 2007, the SEC published its first set of rules under the Reform Act. These rules address the NRSRO application and registration process, as
well as oversight rules related to recordkeeping, financial reporting, prevention of misuse of material non-public information, conflicts of interest, and prohibited acts and practices. In June 2007, MIS filed its application for registration
as an NRSRO with the SEC. In September 2007, the SEC registered MIS as an NRSRO under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and as of that time MIS has been subject to the SEC’s oversight rules described above. As required by the rules, MIS has
made its Form NRSRO Initial Application, its Annual Certification of Form NRSRO, and any associated updates publicly available by posting it on the Regulatory Affairs page of the Company’s website.

In July 2008, the SEC released a report on its examination of CRAs. The SEC began its review of the ratings processes and procedures of the three leading rating
agencies – MIS, S&P and Fitch – in August 2007, focusing on subprime RMBS and CDOs. While the Commission’s Staff noted that most of the period under review pre-dated the implementation of SEC rules for the industry, the report
identified areas that were either of concern to the SEC or that the SEC believed could be enhanced going-forward. The concerns identified by the Commission’s Staff generally fall into three categories: policies addressing potential conflicts of
interest; resources and resource allocation; documentation around policies and procedures and enhancing transparency. The SEC also summarized the various steps that are already being put in place by the rating agencies, as well as those that are
under consideration in the SEC’s current rule-making process.

In February 2009, the SEC published a second set of rules applicable to NRSROs, the
majority of which provide requirements for managing conflicts of interest, enhancing record keeping requirements, and improving transparency of ratings performance and methodologies. Several of these rules became operative in April 2009.

In April 2009, MIS participated in a roundtable held by the SEC on the oversight of credit rating agencies. The SEC’s stated objective was to elicit the views
of a broad cross-section of market participants. The roundtable was a full-day event and consisted of four panels: Current NRSRO Perspectives; Competition Issues; Users’ Perspectives; and Approaches to Improve Credit Rating Agency Oversight. In
preparation for the roundtable, participants were asked to submit statements and MIS’s statement is available on the Regulatory Affairs page of the Company’s website.

In November 2009, the SEC published a third set of final rules for NRSROs. These rules, which will come into force in June 2010, require additional disclosure of rating histories and prohibit NRSROs from rating
structured finance products unless the issuer makes the same information accessible to all NRSROs that it provides to an NRSRO hired to determine the rating. In 2009, the SEC also determined to eliminate references to NRSRO ratings in certain
regulations, retain some references and seek additional comments on other references. In December 2009, the comment period closed on an SEC proposal to require disclosure about credit ratings when ratings are used in connection with the sale of
registered securities and a concept release on the treatment of NRSROs as experts under the Securities Act of 1933. In February 2010, the comment period closed on proposed SEC rules for NRSROs regarding the compliance function and disclosure about
revenues received for credit rating services. MIS’s comments to the SEC can be found on the Regulatory Affairs webpage of the Company’s website.

Both chambers of Congress, as well as the Administration, are reviewing the broader U.S. regulatory infrastructure and as part of this review, the role and function of CRAs will continue to be studied. For example, as part of a series of
hearings focusing on the existing market turmoil, on October 22, 2008, the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform (“House Oversight Committee”) held a hearing on the Role of Credit Rating Agencies in which MIS
participated.

On June 17, 2009, the U.S. Department of the Treasury (“Treasury”) published its proposal on “Financial Regulatory
Reform: A New Foundation” (“Administration’s Proposal”). As it pertains to CRAs, the Administration’s Proposal asked the SEC to continue its efforts to strengthen the regulation of CRAs, including measures to require that
firms have robust policies and procedures that manage and disclose conflicts of interest, differentiate between structured and other products, and otherwise promote the integrity of the rating process. The Administration’s Proposal also
recommended that regulators should reduce their use of credit ratings in regulations and supervisory practices, wherever possible.

Subsequently, the
Treasury produced and sent to Congress a series of proposed bills that seek to implement the various aspects of the Administration’s Proposal. With respect to the CRA industry, the Treasury’s proposed bill was sent to the Congress on
July 21st. It is



12MOODY’S2009 10-K






entitled “Improvements to the Regulation of Credit Rating Agencies” and is organized in order to address the following areas: mandatory registration of credit rating agencies; enhanced
regulation of nationally recognized statistical rating organizations; strengthening credit rating agency independence; and issuer disclosure of preliminary ratings.

As part of the ongoing debate in Congress, MIS participated in two hearings on September 30, 2009. One hearing was held by the House Oversight Committee and the other by the House Financial Services
Subcommittee on Capital Markets, Insurance and Government Sponsored Enterprises. Following these hearings, the House Financial Services Committee approved a bill entitled “Accountability and Transparency in Rating Agencies Act”. The rating
agency bill was later incorporated into the larger financial reform draft legislation, which was approved by the full House in December 2009. Presently, the Senate is considering its version of a bill that would enhance oversight of CRAs. Both the
House and Senate bills currently contain provisions that could potentially increase the costs associated with the operation of a CRA and increase the legal risk associated with the issuance of credit ratings. As the legislative process is still
ongoing, it is as yet too early to assess the potential impact of additional legislation.

Internationally, several regulatory developments have
occurred:

The Group of 8 and the Group of 20—In November 2008, the Heads of State of the G-20 reached agreement on a wide-ranging set of proposals
to better regulate financial systems. Among other things, the G-20 committed to implement oversight of the CRAs, consistent with the strengthened International Organization of Securities Commissions’ Code of Conduct (see below) and agreed that,
in the medium term, the countries should implement a registration system for CRAs. The G-20 also committed to formulate their regulations and other measures in a consistent manner and recommended that IOSCO review CRAs’ adoption of the
standards and mechanisms for monitoring compliance.

On April 2, 2009, the G-20 Heads of State meeting was held in London, where the G-20 provided a
six-part action plan to address the financial crisis: (1) to restore confidence, growth, and jobs; (2) to repair the financial system to restore lending; (3) to strengthen financial regulation and rebuild trust; (4) to fund and
reform international financial institutions to overcome the current crisis and prevent future ones; (5) to promote global trade and investment and reject protectionism; and (6) to build an inclusive, green, and sustainable recovery. The
G-20’s plan also contains a number of provisions that are specific to CRAs. In particular, the G-20 member states agreed to extend regulatory oversight to and require registration of CRAs in order to ensure that they adhere to the international
code of good practice. On July 10, 2009, the G-8 restated its commitment to implement the G-20’s statement.

In September 2009, the G-20 met in
Pittsburgh and developed a progress report on actions to promote global financial regulatory reform. With respect to CRAs, the G-20 acknowledged that stronger oversight regimes for CRAs have been developed in the EU, the U.S. and Japan, and
recognized that the development of good practices for due diligence by asset managers investing in structured finance products will result in reduced reliance on credit ratings. The G-20 also expressed concern about the creation of globally
inconsistent regulations.

IOSCO—In December 2004, the Technical Committee of IOSCO published its Code of Conduct Fundamentals for Credit Rating
Agencies. In May 2008, IOSCO published the revised IOSCO Code. The changes made to the IOSCO Code broadly address greater transparency of methodologies and processes by CRAs. In July 2008, IOSCO also announced that it will monitor the CRAs
implementation of the IOSCO Code changes and it will explore the means by which IOSCO members might work together to verify the proper and complete disclosure by CRAs of information required by the IOSCO Code.

On March 12, 2009, IOSCO published its second review of the CRAs implementation of the IOSCO Code. The report noted that seven out of the 21 CRAs reviewed had
implemented the IOSCO Code in their own codes of conduct. In particular, MIS was found to have substantially implemented the 2008 revisions to the IOSCO Code. IOSCO also published and sent a note to the G-20 and Financial Stability Forum regarding
the use of the IOSCO Code as the basis for international oversight of CRAs and mechanisms by which regulators can help assure adequate cross-border supervision of globally active CRAs. In addition, IOSCO announced the establishment of a new standing
committee that will address global issues regarding the CRA industry.

MIS initially published its Code of Professional Conduct pursuant to the IOSCO
Code in June 2005 and published an updated version in October 2007. In November 2008, MIS revised its Code to reflect the changes made to the IOSCO Code. Beginning in 2006, MIS has annually published a report that describes its implementation of the
Code. The MIS Code and the three annual reports that have been published thus far can be found on the Regulatory Affairs page of the Company’s website.

Finally, IOSCO is exploring the possibility of supervisory colleges and/or bilateral cooperation arrangements for the oversight of CRAs to address concerns relating to globally fragmented regulations and in order to promote greater
interaction between CRAs and regulators, as well as greater coordination among regulators overseeing international CRAs.

EU—In late April 2009, the
European Parliament voted and passed on a new regulation (“EU Regulation”) that establishes an oversight regime for the CRA industry in the European Union. The Company expects that CRAs will need to be in compliance with the EU Regulation
of CRAs in the second half of 2010. The framework for the EU Regulation requires the registration, formal regulation and



MOODY’S2009 10-K13






periodic inspection of CRAs operating in the EU. The EU Regulation also sets out specific requirements for the use of ratings that are produced outside of the EU and used for regulatory purposes
in the EU. Among these is a requirement for the relevant competent authority in the EU and the competent authority of the non-EU jurisdiction where that rating has been produced to enter into a cooperation agreement containing provisions related to
the exchange of information and the coordination of supervisory activities. The details of how these and other requirements will be implemented have yet to be decided, and it is therefore too early to assess the impact of the EU Regulation on
MIS’s operations or financial results.

The Basel Committee—In June 2004, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision published a new bank
capital adequacy framework, called Basel II, to replace its initial 1988 framework. Under Basel II, ratings assigned by recognized CRAs or ECAIs, can be used by banks in determining credit risk weights for many of their institutional credit
exposures. Recognized ECAIs could be subject to a broader range of oversight. National authorities have begun the ECAI recognition process. MIS has been recognized as an ECAI in several jurisdictions and the recognition process is ongoing in many
others. MIS does not currently believe that Basel II will materially affect its financial position or results of operations. As a result of the recent regulatory activity, the banking authorities of the Basel Committee are reconsidering the overall
Basel II framework. It is as yet too early to assess the form and content of this re-evaluation.

Other legislation and regulation relating to credit
rating and research services is being considered by local, national and multinational bodies and this type of activity is likely to continue in the future. In addition, in certain countries, governments may provide financial or other support to
locally-based rating agencies. For example, governments may from time to time establish official rating agencies or credit ratings criteria or procedures for evaluating local issuers. If enacted, any such legislation and regulation could change the
competitive landscape in which MIS operates. The legal status of rating agencies has been addressed by courts in various decisions and is likely to be considered and addressed in legal proceedings from time to time in the future. Management of MIS
cannot predict whether these or any other proposals will be enacted, the outcome of any pending or possible future legal proceedings, or regulatory or legislative actions, or the ultimate impact of any such matters on the competitive position,
financial position or results of operations of Moody’s.

Finally, the G-20 has announced that by the end of 2009, the Basel Committee will review
the role of external ratings in regulation and determine whether any adverse incentives need to be addressed. It is our understanding that this work has begun.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

The names of Moody’s products and services referred to herein are trademarks, service marks or registered trademarks or service marks owned by or licensed to
Moody’s or one or more of its subsidiaries.

EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 2009, the number of full-time equivalent employees of Moody’s was approximately 4,000.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

Moody’s
investor relations Internet website is http://ir.moodys.com/. Under the “SEC Filings” tab at this website, the Company makes available free of charge its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form
8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with, or furnished to, the SEC.

The SEC maintains an internet
site that contains annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and other information statements that the Company files electronically with the SEC. The SEC’s internet site is http://www.sec.gov/.



14MOODY’S2009 10-K






EXECUTIVE
OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT



NAME, AGE AND POSITIONBIOGRAPHICAL DATA



Mark E. Almeida, 50President—Moody’s AnalyticsMr. Almeida has served as President of Moody’s Analytics since January 2008. Prior to this position, Mr. Almeida was Senior Vice President of Moody’s Corporation from August 2007 to January
2008, Senior Managing Director of the Investor Services Group (ISG) at Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. from December 2004 to January 2008 and was Group Managing Director of ISG from June 2000 to December 2004. Mr. Almeida joined Moody’s
Investors Service, Inc. in April 1988 and has held a variety of positions with the company in both the U.S. and overseas.



Richard Cantor, 52Chief Risk OfficerMr. Cantor has served as Chief Risk Officer of Moody’s Corporation since December 2008 and as Chief Credit Officer of Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. since November 2008. Mr. Cantor has also
served as the Chairman of the Credit Policy Committee since November 2008. From July 2008 to November 2008, Mr. Cantor served as Acting Chief Credit Officer and Acting Chairman of the Credit Policy Committee. Prior thereto, Mr. Cantor was Managing
Director of Moody’s Credit Policy Research Group from June 2001 to July 2008 and Senior Vice President in the Financial Guarantors Rating Group. Mr. Cantor joined Moody’s in 1997 from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, where he served
as Assistant Vice President in the Research Group and was Staff Director at the Discount Window. Prior to the Federal Reserve, Mr. Cantor taught Economics at UCLA and Ohio State and has taught on an adjunct basis at the business schools of Columbia
University and New York University.



Robert Fauber, 39Senior Vice President—Corporate DevelopmentMr. Fauber has served as Senior Vice President—Corporate Development of Moody's Corporation since April 2009 and as Vice President-Corporate Development since he joined Moody’s in September 2005
to April 2009. Prior to joining Moody's, Mr. Fauber served in several roles at Citigroup from 1999 to 2005, including most recently, Director of Planning and Business Development for Citigroup's Alternative Investments division. Prior to that, Mr.
Fauber worked as a Director in Corporate Strategy & Business Development for Citigroup and a Vice President and Associate in the Financial Sponsor and Telecom investment banking groups at the firm's Salomon Smith Barney subsidiary. From
1992-1996, Mr. Fauber worked at NationsBank (now Bank of America), working in the middle market commercial banking group and also ran the firm's Global Finance college recruiting program in 1997.



John J. Goggins, 49Senior Vice President and General CounselMr. Goggins has served as the Company’s Senior Vice President and General Counsel since October 1, 2000. Mr. Goggins joined Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. in February 1999 as Vice
President and Associate General Counsel. Prior thereto, he served as counsel at Dow Jones & Company from 1995 to 1999, where he was responsible for securities, acquisitions and general corporate matters. Prior to Dow Jones, he was an associate
at Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft from 1985 to 1995, where he specialized in mergers and acquisitions.



Linda S. Huber, 51Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerMs. Huber has served as the Company’s Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since May 2005. Prior thereto, she served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer at U.S.
Trust Company, a subsidiary of Charles Schwab & Company, Inc., from 2003 to 2005. Prior to U.S. Trust, she was Managing Director at Freeman & Co. from 1998 through 2002. She served PepsiCo as Vice President of Corporate Strategy and
Development from 1997 until 1998 and as Vice President and Assistant Treasurer from 1994 until 1997. She served as Vice President in the Energy Investment Banking Group at Bankers Trust Company from 1991 until 1994 and as an Associate in the Energy
Group at First Boston Corporation from 1986 through 1990. She also held the rank of Captain in the U.S. Army where she served from 1980 to 1984.



MOODY’S2009 10-K15






NAME, AGE AND POSITIONBIOGRAPHICAL DATA



Michel Madelain, 54Chief Operating Officer —Moody’s Investors ServiceMr. Madelain has served as Chief Operating Officer of Moody’s Investors Service Inc., since May 2008. Prior to this position, Mr. Madelain served as Executive Vice President, Fundamental Ratings from
September 2007 to May 2008, with responsibility for all Global Fundamental Ratings, including Corporate Finance, Financial Institutions, Public Finance and Infrastructure Finance. He managed the Financial Institutions group from March 2007 until
September 2007. Mr. Madelain served as Group Managing Director, EMEA Corporate Ratings from November 2000 to March 2007 and prior thereto held several Managing Director positions in the U.S. and U.K. Fundamental Rating Groups. Prior to joining
Moody’s in 1994, Mr. Madelain served as a Partner of Ernst & Young, Auditing Practice. Mr. Madelain is qualified as a Chartered Accountant in France.



Joseph (Jay) McCabe, 59Senior Vice President—Corporate ControllerMr. McCabe has served as the Company’s Senior Vice President–Corporate Controller since December 2005. Mr. McCabe joined Moody’s in July 2004 as Vice President and Corporate
Controller. Before joining the Company, he served as Vice President—Corporate Controller at PPL Corporation, an energy and utility holding company, from 1994 to 2003. Prior to PPL Corporation, he served Deloitte & Touche as Partner from
1984 to 1993 and as a member of the firm’s audit practice from 1973 to 1984.



Raymond W. McDaniel, Jr., 52Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerRaymond W. McDaniel, Jr., has served as the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company since April 2005 and serves on the International Business Development Committee of the Board of Directors.
Mr. McDaniel served as the Company’s President from October 2004 until April 2005 and the Company’s Chief Operating Officer from January 2004 until April 2005. He served as President of Moody’s Investors Service, Inc., a subsidiary of
the Company, from November 2001 to August 2007. Mr. McDaniel served as the Company’s Executive Vice President from April 2003 to January 2004, and as Senior Vice President, Global Ratings and Research from November 2000 until April 2003. He
served as Senior Managing Director, Global Ratings and Research, of Moody’s Investors Service from November 2000 until November 2001 and as Managing Director, International from 1996 to November 2000. Mr. McDaniel is also a Director of John
Wiley & Sons, Inc.



Lisa S. Westlake, 48Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resource OfficerMs. Westlake has served as the Company’s Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer since November 2008. Prior to this position, Ms. Westlake served as Vice President—Investor
Relations from December 2006 to December 2008 and Managing Director—Finance from September 2004 to December 2006. Prior to joining the Company, Ms. Westlake was a senior consultant with the Schiff Consulting Group from 2003 to 2004. From 1996
to 2003 Ms. Westlake worked at American Express Company where she held several different positions such as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for the OPEN Business Network, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for Establishment
Services and Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for Relationship Services. From 1989 to 1995 Ms. Westlake held a range of financial management positions at Dun & Bradstreet Corporation and it subsidiary at the time, IMS International.
From 1984 to 1987 Ms. Westlake served at Lehman Brothers in both the investment banking and municipal trading areas.



16MOODY’S2009 10-K






