ITEM 1.BUSINESS

BACKGROUND

As used in this report, except where the context indicates otherwise, the terms “Moody’s” or the “Company” refer to
Moody’s Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and its subsidiaries. The Company’s executive offices are located at 7 World Trade Center at 250 Greenwich Street, New York, NY 10007 and its telephone number is (212) 553-0300. Prior to
September 30, 2000, the Company operated as part of The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation.

THE COMPANY

Moody’s is a provider of (i) credit ratings, (ii) credit, capital markets and economic related research, data and analytical tools,
(iii) software solutions and related risk management services, (iv) quantitative credit risk measures, financial services training and certification services and (v) outsourced research and analytical services to institutional
customers. Moody’s reports in two reportable segments: MIS and MA. The MIS segment consists of all credit rating activity. All of Moody’s other non-rating commercial activities are included within the MA segment. Financial information and
operating results of these segments, including revenue, expenses, operating income and total assets, are included in Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements of this annual report, and are herein incorporated by reference.

MIS, the credit rating agency, publishes credit ratings on a wide range of debt obligations and the entities that issue such obligations in markets worldwide,
including various corporate and governmental obligations, structured finance securities and commercial paper programs. Revenue is derived from the originators and issuers of such transactions who use MIS ratings to support the distribution of their
debt issues to investors. MIS provides ratings in more than 110 countries. Ratings are disseminated via press releases to the public through a variety of print and electronic media, including the Internet and real-time information systems widely
used by securities traders and investors. As of December 31, 2012, MIS had ratings relationships with approximately 10,000 corporate issuers and approximately 22,000 public finance issuers. Additionally, the Company has rated and currently
monitors ratings on approximately 82,000 structured finance obligations (representing approximately 13,000 transactions). The aforementioned amounts relating to the number of issuers and transactions represent issuers or transactions that had an
active rating at any point during the year ended December 31, 2012.

The MA segment develops a wide range of products and services that support
financial analysis and risk management activities of institutional participants in global financial markets. Within its Research, Data and Analytics business, MA distributes research and data developed by MIS as part of its ratings process,
including in-depth research on major debt issuers, industry studies, commentary on topical credit related events and also provides economic research and credit data and analytical tools such as quantitative credit risk scores. Within its Enterprise
Risk Solutions business (formerly referred to as Risk Management Solutions), MA provides software solutions as well as related risk management services. Within its Professional Services business it provides outsourced research and analytical
services along with financial training and certification programs. MA customers represent more than 4,100 institutions worldwide operating in approximately 115 countries. During 2012 Moody’s research web site was accessed by over 235,000
individuals including 30,000 client users.

The Company operated as part of “Old D&B” until September 30, 2000, when Old D&B
separated into two publicly traded companies – Moody’s Corporation and New D&B. At that time, Old D&B distributed to its shareholders shares of New D&B stock. New D&B comprised the business of Old D&B’s
Dun & Bradstreet operating company. The remaining business of Old D&B consisted solely of the business of providing ratings and related research and credit risk management services and was renamed Moody’s Corporation. For purposes
of governing certain ongoing relationships between the Company and New D&B after the 2000 Distribution and to provide for an orderly transition, the Company and New D&B entered into various agreements including a distribution agreement, tax
allocation agreement and employee benefits agreement.



MOODY’S2012 10-K9




PROSPECTS FOR GROWTH

Over recent decades, global fixed-income markets have grown significantly both in terms of the amount and the types of securities or other obligations outstanding. Beginning in mid-2007, there was a severe market
disruption and a global decline in issuance activity for some significant asset classes. Despite the market disruption and subsequent weak economic performance and recoveries in the advanced economies, Moody’s believes that the overall
long-term outlook remains favorable for continued global growth of fixed-income markets including the market for related financial information such as credit opinions, data, analytics and related services.

Moody’s growth is influenced by a number of trends that impact financial information markets including:



•Health of the world’s major economies;



•Debt capital markets activity;



•Disintermediation of credit markets;



•Fiscal and monetary policy of governments;



•Changing regulatory requirements; and



•Business investment spending

Since the global
financial crisis began in mid-2007, there has been slow progress in remediating structural issues and the economic recoveries from the 2008 – 2009 recession in the advanced economies has been weak. Adverse headwinds impacting the pace of global
trade growth and volatile capital market flows have caused economic activity to slow across both advanced and emerging economies. However, gradual strengthening in global economic growth is expected to occur over the coming years as the U.S. economy
continues to improve and the Euro crisis is managed.

Moody’s is well positioned to benefit from a long-term recovery in global credit market
activity and a more informed use of credit ratings, research and related analytical products in an environment of renewed attention to risk analysis and risk management. Moody’s expects that these developments will support continued long-term
demand for high-quality, independent credit opinions, research, data and risk management tools and services. An expectation of recovery-driven growth in capital market activity, supported by initiatives to increase market share, leverage pricing
opportunities, capture disintermediation activity in developed and developing markets and develop additional data, research and rating products, represent key growth drivers for Moody’s.

Longer term growth in global fixed-income markets is also attributable to a number of forces and trends such as advances in information technology and
disintermediation of financial systems. The pace of change in technology and communication over the past two decades makes information about investment alternatives widely available throughout the world and facilitates issuers’ ability to place
securities outside their national markets and investors’ capacity to obtain information about securities issued outside their national markets. Technology also allows issuers and investors the ability to more readily obtain information about
new financing techniques and new types of securities that they may wish to purchase or sell, which in the absence of the appropriate technology may not be easily obtainable. This availability of information promotes the ongoing integration and
expansion of financial markets worldwide giving issuers and investors access to a wider range of developed capital markets and a number of new capital markets. As technology provides for wider access to worldwide markets, it also results in a
greater need for credible, globally comparable opinions about credit risk, data, analytics and related services. Additionally, information technology also provides opportunities to further build a global platform to support Moody’s continued
expansion in developing markets.



10MOODY’S2012 10-K




An ongoing trend in the world’s capital markets is the disintermediation of financial systems. Issuers
increasingly raise capital in the global public capital markets, in addition to, or in substitution for, traditional financial intermediaries. Moreover, financial intermediaries have sold assets in the global public capital markets, in addition to,
or instead of, retaining those assets. Recent credit market disruptions which began in mid-2007 initially slowed the trend of disintermediation globally, but Moody’s believes that debt capital markets offer advantages in capacity and efficiency
compared to the traditional banking systems. In fact, disintermediation has accelerated in some markets over the past year because of the low interest rate environment and ongoing bank deleveraging, which has encouraged a number of corporations and
other entities to seek alternative funding in bond markets, while in key emerging markets strong economic growth is out pacing their internal banking system capacity. Thus, disintermediation is expected to accelerate in the longer-term, with
Moody’s continuing to target investment and resources to growing international markets where disintermediation and bond issuance should remain more robust.

In response to the credit market disruptions, ongoing volatility in the global capital markets and to address a wide range of new regulatory requirements, financial institutions are investing in people, processes
and systems to enhance risk management and compliance functions. Regulations such as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, Basel II, Basel III, Solvency II and others may stimulate demand for MA products. Financial
institutions are also investing in advanced qualitative and quantitative tools and services to support their management of complex balance sheets and diverse portfolios. MA offers a suite of risk management products and services to address these
needs, including but not limited to risk management software, economic analysis, training and professional services.

Legislative bodies and regulators
in the U.S., Europe and selective other jurisdictions continue to conduct regulatory reviews of CRAs, which may result in, for example, an increased number of competitors, changes to the business model or restrictions on certain business activities
of MIS, or increased costs of doing business for MIS. Therefore, in order to broaden the potential for expansion of non-ratings services, Moody’s reorganized in January 2008 into two distinct businesses: MIS, consisting solely of the ratings
business, and MA. MA conducts all non-ratings activities including the sale of credit research produced by MIS and the production and sale of other economic and credit-related products and services. The reorganization broadens the opportunities for
expansion by MA into activities which may have otherwise been restricted for MIS, due to the potential for conflicts of interest with the ratings business. At present, Moody’s is unable to assess the nature and effect that any regulatory
changes may have on future growth opportunities.

Moody’s operations are subject to various risks, as more fully described in Part I, Item 1A
“Risk Factors,” inherent in conducting business internationally. Such risks include currency fluctuations and possible nationalization, expropriation, exchange and price controls, changes in the availability of data from public sector
sources, limits on providing information across borders and other restrictive governmental actions. Management believes that the risks of nationalization or expropriation are reduced because the Company’s basic service is the creation and
dissemination of information, rather than the production of products that require manufacturing facilities or the use of natural resources. However, the formation of, for example, a new government-sponsored regional or global rating agency would
pose a risk to MIS’s growth prospects. Management believes that this risk, compared to other regulatory changes under consideration for the credit rating industry, is relatively low because of the likelihood that substantial investments over a
sustained period would be required, with uncertainty about the likelihood of financial success for the entity.

COMPETITION

The MIS business competes with other CRAs and with investment banks and brokerage firms that offer credit opinions and research. Many users of
MIS’s ratings also have in-house credit research capabilities. MIS’s largest competitor in the global credit rating business is Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services (S&P), a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. There
are some rating markets, based on industry, geography and/or instrument type, in which Moody’s has made investments and obtained market positions superior to S&P, while in other markets, the reverse is true.

In addition to S&P, MIS’s competitors include Fitch Ratings, Dominion Bond Rating Service Ltd., A.M. Best Company Inc., Japan Credit Rating Agency Ltd.,
Kroll Bond Rating Agency Inc., Morningstar Inc. and Egan-Jones Ratings Company. In Europe, examples of competitors include Euler Hermes Rating, Feri EuroRating, Creditreform Rating, PSR Rating, ICAP Group and Companhia Portuguesa de Rating. There
are additional competitors in other regions and countries, for example, in China where Moody’s operates through a joint venture. These competitors include China Lianhe Credit Rating Co Ltd., Shanghai Brilliance Credit Rating &
Investors Service Co Ltd., Dagong Global Credit Rating Co Ltd. and Pengyuan Credit Rating Co Ltd.

MA competes broadly in the financial information
industry against diversified competitors such as Thomson Reuters, Bloomberg, S&P Capital IQ, Fitch Solutions, Dun & Bradstreet, IBM, Wolters Kluwer, Sungard, SAS, Fiserv, MSCI and Markit Group among others. MA’s main competitors
within RD&A include S&P Capital IQ, CreditSights, Thomson Reuters, Intex, IHS Global Insight, BlackRock Solutions, FactSet and other smaller boutique providers of fixed income analytics, valuations, economic data and research. In ERS, MA
faces competition from both large software providers such as IBM Algorithmics, SunGard, SAS, Oracle, Turaz, Oliver Wyman, Verisk and vari-



MOODY’S2012 10-K11




ous other smaller vendors and in-house solutions. Within PS, MA competes with Omega Performance, DC Gardner, and a host of financial training and education boutiques, and with Evalueserve, CRISIL
Global Research & Analytics, and other providers of outsourced research and consulting services.

MOODY’S
STRATEGY

Moody’s corporate strategy is to be the world’s most respected authority servicing financial risk-sensitive markets. The key
aspects to implement this strategy are to:



•Defend and enhance the core ratings and research business of MIS



•Build MA’s position as a leading provider of risk management solutions to financial institutions



•Invest in strategic growth opportunities

Moody’s will make investments to defend and enhance its core businesses in an attempt to position the Company to fully capture market opportunities resulting
from global debt capital market expansion and increased business investment spending. Moody’s will also make strategic investments to achieve scale in attractive financial information markets, move into attractive product and service
adjacencies where the Company can leverage its brand, extend its thought leadership and expand its geographic presence in high growth emerging markets.

To broaden the Company’s potential, MA provides a wide range of products and services capabilities to enable financial institutions to better manage risk. As such, MA adds to the Company’s value
proposition in three ways. First, MA’s subscription businesses provide a significant base of recurring revenue to offset cyclicality in ratings issuance volumes that can introduce volatility to MIS revenues. Second, MA products and services,
such as financial training and advisory services on risk management best practices, provide opportunities for entry into emerging markets before debt capital markets fully develop and present growth opportunities for the ratings business. Finally,
MA’s integrated risk management software platform embeds Moody’s solutions deep into the technology infrastructure of banks and insurance companies worldwide.

Moody’s invests in initiatives to implement the Company’s strategy, including internally-led organic development and targeted acquisitions. Example initiatives include:



•enhancements to ratings quality and product extensions



•investments that extend ownership and participation in JVs and strategic alliances



•headcount growth to meet customer demand for new products and services



•Selective, bolt-on acquisitions that accelerate the ability to grow Moody’s businesses



•Expansion in emerging markets

REGULATION

MIS and many of the securities that it rates are subject to extensive regulation in both the U.S. and in other countries (including
by state and local authorities). Thus, existing and proposed laws and regulations can impact the Company’s operations and the markets for securities that it rates. Additional laws and regulations have been adopted but not yet implemented or
have been proposed or are being considered. Each of the existing, adopted, proposed and potential laws and regulations can increase the costs and legal risk associated with the issuance of credit ratings and may negatively impact Moody’s
operations or profitability, the Company’s ability to compete, or result in changes in the demand for credit ratings, in the manner in which ratings are utilized and in the manner in which Moody’s operates.

In the EU, in 2009, the European Parliament passed a new regulation (“CRA1”) that establishes an oversight regime for the CRA industry in the European
Union. The framework for the EU regulation requires the registration, formal regulation and periodic inspection of CRAs operating in the EU. The EU Regulation also sets out specific requirements for the use of ratings that are produced outside of
the EU and are used for regulatory purposes in the EU. Among these is a requirement for the relevant competent authority in the EU and the competent authority of the non-EU jurisdiction where that rating has been produced to enter into a cooperation
agreement containing provisions related to the exchange of information and the coordination of supervisory activities. CRA1 became fully effective in September 2010. MIS applied for registration in August 2010 and was granted registration in October
2011. In addition, through a new regulatory instrument (CRA2), the European Securities and Markets Authority was established in January 2011 and has had direct supervisory responsibility for the registered CRA industry in the EU since July 2011.



12MOODY’S2012 10-K




Finally, in November 2011, the European Commission issued proposed amendments to its existing regulations (generally
referred to as CRA3). After a year of dialogue among political institutions, regulatory authorities and market participants, the European Parliament voted on and adopted CRA3 in January 2013. A few additional steps remain in the legislative process
before CRA3 is finalized. It is expected that CRA3 will become effective in the second half of 2013. As adopted, the revised regulations, among other things, would:



•impose various additional procedural requirements with respect to ratings of sovereign issuers;



•require member states to adopt laws imposing liability on CRAs for an intentional or grossly negligent failure to abide by the applicable regulations;



•impose mandatory rotation requirements on CRAs hired by issuers of securities for ratings of resecuritizations, which may limit the number of years a CRA can
issue ratings for such securities of a particular issuer;



•impose restrictions on CRAs or their shareholders if certain ownership thresholds are crossed; and



•impose additional procedural and substantive requirements on the pricing of services.

Certain of the provisions of CRA3 will be subject to ESMA rule-making and it is expected that process will happen within the year. Most of CRA3, however, will become effective 20 days after the text’s official
publication.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

Moody’s and its affiliates own and control a variety of intellectual property, including but not limited to proprietary information, trademarks, research,
software tools and applications, models and methodologies, databases, domain names, and other proprietary materials that, in the aggregate, are of material importance to Moody’s business. Management of Moody’s believes that each of the
trademarks and related corporate names, marks and logos containing the term “Moody’s” are of material importance to the Company.

The
Company, primarily through MA, licenses certain of its databases, software applications, credit risk models, training courses in credit risk and capital markets, research and other publications and services that contain Intellectual Property to its
customers. These licenses are provided pursuant to standard fee-bearing agreements containing customary restrictions and intellectual property protections.

In addition, Moody’s licenses certain technology and other intellectual property rights owned and controlled by others. Specifically, Moody’s licenses financial information (such as market and index data,
financial statement data, third party research, default data, and security identifiers) as well as software development tools and libraries. The Company obtains such technology and intellectual property rights from generally available commercial
sources. Most of such technology and intellectual property is available from a variety of sources. Although certain financial information (particularly security identifiers and certain pricing or index data) is available only from a limited number
of sources, Moody’s does not believe it is dependent on any one data source for a material aspect of its business.

The Company considers its
Intellectual Property to be proprietary, and Moody’s relies on a combination of copyright, trademark, trade secret, patent, non-disclosure and other contractual safeguards for protection. Moody’s also pursues instances of third-party
infringement of its Intellectual Property in order to protect the Company’s rights. The Company owns a single, non-material patent. None of the Intellectual Property is subject to a specific expiration date, except to the extent that the
copyright in items that the Company authors (such as credit reports, research, and other written opinions) expires pursuant to relevant law, currently 95 years from first publication in the US; and the single patent that Moody’s owns expires in
2028.

The names of Moody’s products and services referred to herein are trademarks, service marks or registered trademarks or service marks owned
by or licensed to Moody’s or one or more of its subsidiaries.



MOODY’S2012 10-K13




EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 2012 the number of full-time equivalent employees of Moody’s was approximately 6,800.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

Moody’s investor relations Internet website is http://ir.moodys.com/. Under the “SEC Filings” tab at this website, the Company makes available free
of charge its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with, or furnished to, the SEC.

The SEC maintains an internet site that contains annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and other information statements that the Company files electronically
with the SEC. The SEC’s internet site is http://www.sec.gov/.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT





NAME, AGE AND POSITIONBIOGRAPHICAL DATA



Mark E. Almeida, 53President—Moody’s AnalyticsMr. Almeida has served as President of Moody’s Analytics since January 2008. Prior to this position, Mr. Almeida was Senior Vice President of Moody’s Corporation from August 2007
to January 2008, Senior Managing Director of the Investor Services Group (ISG) at Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. from December 2004 to January 2008 and was Group Managing Director of ISG from June 2000 to December 2004. Mr. Almeida joined
Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. in April 1988 and has held a variety of positions with the company in both the U.S. and overseas.



Richard Cantor, 55Chief Risk OfficerMr. Cantor has served as Chief Risk Officer of Moody’s Corporation since December 2008 and as Chief Credit Officer of Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. since November 2008. From
July 2008 to November 2008, Mr. Cantor served as Acting Chief Credit Officer. Prior thereto, Mr. Cantor was Managing Director of Moody’s Credit Policy Research Group from June 2001 to July 2008, after serving as Senior Vice President in the
Financial Guarantors Rating Group. Mr. Cantor joined Moody’s in 1997 from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, where he served as Assistant Vice President in the Research Group and was Staff Director at the Discount Window. Prior to the
Federal Reserve, Mr. Cantor taught Economics at UCLA and Ohio State and has taught on an adjunct basis at the business schools of Columbia University and New York University.



Robert Fauber, 42Senior Vice President—CorporateDevelopmentMr. Fauber has served as Senior Vice President—Corporate Development of Moody’s Corporation since April 2009 and Head of the MIS Commercial Group since January 2013.
Mr. Fauber served as Vice President-Corporate Development from September 2005 to April 2009. Prior to joining Moody’s, Mr. Fauber served in several roles at Citigroup from 1999 to 2005, including most recently, Director of Planning and
Business Development for Citigroup’s Alternative Investments division. Prior to that, Mr. Fauber worked as a Director in Corporate Strategy & Business Development for Citigroup and a Vice President and Associate in the Financial Sponsor and
Telecom investment banking groups at the firm’s Salomon Smith Barney subsidiary. From 1992-1996, Mr. Fauber worked at NationsBank (now Bank of America), working in the middle market commercial banking group and also ran the firm’s Global
Finance college recruiting program in 1997.



John J. Goggins, 52Executive Vice President and
GeneralCounselMr. Goggins has served as the Company’s Executive Vice President and General Counsel since April 2011 and the Company’s Senior Vice President and General Counsel from October
2000 until April 2011. Mr. Goggins joined Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. in February 1999 as Vice President and Associate General Counsel. Prior thereto, he served as counsel at Dow Jones & Company from 1995 to 1999, where he was
responsible for securities, acquisitions and general corporate matters. Prior to Dow Jones, he was an associate at Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft from 1985 to 1995, where he specialized in mergers and acquisitions.



Linda S. Huber, 54Executive Vice President and ChiefFinancial OfficerMs. Huber has served as the Company’s Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since May 2005. Prior thereto, she served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer at U.S. Trust Company, a subsidiary of Charles Schwab & Company, Inc., from 2003 to 2005. Prior to U.S. Trust, she was Managing Director at Freeman & Co. from 1998 through 2002. She served PepsiCo as Vice President of Corporate
Strategy and Development from 1997 until 1998 and as Vice President and Assistant Treasurer from 1994 until 1997. She served as Vice President in the Energy Investment Banking Group at Bankers Trust Company from 1991 until 1994 and as an Associate
in the Energy Group at First Boston Corporation from 1986 through 1990. She also held the rank of Captain in the U.S. Army where she served from 1980 to 1984.



14MOODY’S2012 10-K






Michel Madelain, 57President and
Chief Operating Officer—Moody’s Investors ServiceMr. Madelain has served as President of Moody’s Investors Service Inc. since November 2010 and as Chief Operating Officer since May 2008. Prior to this, Mr. Madelain served as
Executive Vice President, Fundamental Ratings from September 2007 to May 2008, with responsibility for all Global Fundamental Ratings, including Corporate Finance, Financial Institutions, Public Finance and Infrastructure Finance. He managed the
Financial Institutions group from March 2007 until September 2007. Mr. Madelain served as Group Managing Director, EMEA Corporate Ratings from November 2000 to March 2007 and prior thereto held several Managing Director positions in the U.S. and
U.K. Fundamental Rating Groups. Prior to joining Moody’s in 1994, Mr. Madelain served as a Partner of Ernst & Young, Auditing Practice. Mr. Madelain is qualified as a Chartered Accountant in France.



Joseph (Jay) McCabe, 62Senior Vice
President—CorporateControllerMr. McCabe has served as the Company’s Senior Vice President—Corporate Controller since December 2005. Mr. McCabe joined Moody’s in July 2004 as Vice President and
Corporate Controller. Before joining the Company, he served as Vice President—Corporate Controller at PPL Corporation, an energy and utility holding company, from 1994 to 2003. Prior to PPL Corporation, he served Deloitte & Touche as
Partner from 1984 to 1993 and as a member of the firm’s audit practice from 1973 to 1984.



Raymond W. McDaniel, Jr., 55President and Chief Executive OfficerMr. McDaniel has served as the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company since April 2012, and served as the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer from April 2005 until April
2012. He currently serves on the MIS and International Business Development Committees of the Board of Directors. Mr. McDaniel served as the Company’s President from October 2004 until April 2005 and the Company’s Chief Operating Officer
from January 2004 until April 2005. He has served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Moody’s Investors Service, Inc., a subsidiary of the Company, since October 2007 and held the additional title of President from November 2001 to
August 2007 and December 2008 to November 2010. Mr. McDaniel served as the Company’s Executive Vice President from April 2003 to January 2004, and as Senior Vice President, Global Ratings and Research from November 2000 until April 2003. He
served as Senior Managing Director, Global Ratings and Research, of Moody’s Investors Service from November 2000 until November 2001 and as Managing Director, International from 1996 to November 2000. Mr. McDaniel currently is a Director of
John Wiley & Sons, Inc.



Lisa S. Westlake, 51Senior Vice President and Chief HumanResource OfficerMs. Westlake has served as the Company’s Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer since November 2008. Prior to this position, Ms. Westlake served as Vice
President—Investor Relations from December 2006 to November 2008 and Managing Director—Finance from September 2004 to December 2006. Prior to joining the Company, Ms. Westlake was a senior consultant with the Schiff Consulting Group from
2003 to 2004. From 1996 to 2003 Ms. Westlake worked at American Express Company where she held several different positions such as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for the OPEN Small Business Network, Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer for Establishment Services and Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for Relationship Services. From 1989 to 1995 Ms. Westlake held a range of financial management positions at Dun & Bradstreet Corporation and its
subsidiary at the time, IMS International. From 1984 to 1987 Ms. Westlake served at Lehman Brothers in both the investment banking and municipal trading areas.



Blair L. Worrall, 56Senior Vice President – RatingsDelivery and
DataMr. Worrall was appointed Senior Vice President – Ratings Delivery and Data in February 2013. Prior to this position, he served as Senior
Vice President – Internal Audit from April 2011 to February 2013 and as Vice President – Internal Audit from September 2007 to April 2011. He served as the Controller for Moody’s Investors Service from November 2004 until September
2007. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Worrall was Vice President, Accounting for RCN Corporation from 2002 to 2004 and held various finance positions at Dow Jones & Company, Inc. from 1979 to 2001.



