ITEM 1.BUSINESS

BACKGROUND

As used in this report, except where the context indicates otherwise, the terms “Moody’s” or the “Company” refer to
Moody’s Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and its subsidiaries. The Company’s executive offices are located at 7 World Trade Center at 250 Greenwich Street, New York, NY 10007 and its telephone number is (212) 553-0300. Prior to
September 30, 2000, the Company operated as part of The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation.

THE COMPANY

Moody’s is a provider of (i) credit ratings, (ii) credit and economic related research, data and analytical tools, (iii) risk
management software and (iv) quantitative credit risk measures, credit portfolio management solutions, training and financial credentialing and certification services. In 2007 and prior years, Moody’s operated in two reportable segments:
Moody’s Investors Service and Moody’s KMV. Beginning in January 2008, Moody’s segments were changed to reflect the Reorganization announced in August 2007 and Moody’s now reports in two new reportable segments: MIS and
Moody’s Analytics. As a result of the Reorganization, the rating agency remains in the MIS operating segment and several ratings business lines have been realigned. All of Moody’s other non-rating commercial activities are included within
the new MA segment. Financial information and operating results of these segments, including revenue, expenses, operating income and total assets, are included in Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements of this annual report, and are herein
incorporated by reference.

The Company operated as part of “Old D&B” until September 30, 2000, when Old D&B separated into two publicly traded companies –
Moody’s Corporation and New D&B. At that time, Old D&B distributed to its shareholders shares of New D&B stock. New D&B comprised the business of Old D&B’s Dun & Bradstreet operating company. The remaining
business of Old D&B consisted solely of the business of providing ratings and related research and credit risk management services and was renamed Moody’s Corporation. For purposes of governing certain ongoing relationships between the
Company and New D&B after the 2000 Distribution and to provide for an orderly transition, the Company and New D&B entered into various agreements including a distribution agreement, tax allocation agreement and employee benefits agreement.



8MOODY’S2010 10-K




PROSPECTS FOR GROWTH

Growth in global fixed-income markets is attributable to a number of forces and trends. Advances in information technology make information about investment
alternatives widely available throughout the world. Technology facilitates issuers’ ability to place securities outside their national markets and investors’ capacity to obtain information about securities issued outside their national
markets. Technology also allows issuers and investors the ability to more readily obtain information about new financing techniques and new types of securities that they may wish to purchase or sell, which in the absence of the appropriate
technology may not be easily obtainable. This availability of information promotes the ongoing integration and development of worldwide financial markets and a greater need for credible, globally comparable opinions about credit risk. As a result,
existing capital markets have expanded and a number of new capital markets have emerged. In addition, more issuers and investors are accessing developed capital markets. Information technology also provides opportunities to further build a global
platform to support Moody’s continued expansion in developing markets.

Another trend in the world’s capital markets is the disintermediation
of financial systems. Issuers increasingly raise capital in the global public capital markets, in addition to, or in substitution for, traditional financial intermediaries. Moreover, financial intermediaries have sold assets in the global public
capital markets, in addition to or instead of retaining those assets. Recent credit market disruptions have slowed the trend of disintermediation globally, but Moody’s believes that debt capital markets offer advantages in capacity and
efficiency compared to the traditional banking systems. Thus, disintermediation is expected to accelerate in the longer-term, with Moody’s continuing to target investment and resources to growing international markets where disintermediation
and bond issuance should remain more robust.

The strong growth trend seen in the issuance of structured finance securities from the mid-1990’s
reversed dramatically in 2008 due to market turmoil, with continued declines seen in 2009 and 2010. The market disruptions that escalated in 2008 are expected to continue in the immediate term, however Moody’s expects to see some revenue
stabilization from this market in the future. Despite significant declines from peak market levels, Moody’s believes that structured finance securities will continue to play a role in global credit markets, and provide opportunities for longer
term revenue growth. Moody’s will continue to monitor this market and adapt to meet the changing needs of its participants.

Rating fees paid by
debt issuers account for most of the revenue of MIS. Therefore, a substantial portion of MIS’s revenue is dependent upon the dollar-equivalent volume and number of ratable debt securities issued in the global capital markets. MIS’s results
can be affected by factors such as the performance, and the prospects for growth, of the major world economies, the fiscal and monetary policies pursued by their governments, and the decisions of issuers to request MIS ratings to aid investors in
their investment decision process. However, annual fee arrangements with frequent debt issuers, annual debt monitoring fees and annual fees from commercial paper and medium-term note programs, bank and insurance company financial strength ratings,
mutual fund ratings, subscription-based research and other areas partially mitigate MIS’s dependence on the volume or number of new debt securities issued in the global capital markets.

Moody’s operations are also subject to various risks inherent in conducting business internationally. Such risks include currency fluctuations and possible nationalization, expropriation, exchange and price
controls, changes in the availability of data from public sector sources, limits on providing information across borders and other restrictive governmental actions. Management believes that the risks of nationalization or expropriation are reduced
because the Company’s basic service is the creation and dissemination of information, rather than the production of products that require manufacturing facilities or the use of natural resources. However, the formation of, for example, a new
government-sponsored regional or global rating agency would pose a risk to MIS’s growth prospects. Management believes that this risk, compared to other regulatory changes under consideration for the credit rating industry, is relatively low
because of the likelihood that substantial investments over a sustained period would be required, with uncertainty about the likelihood of financial success for the entity.



MOODY’S2010 10-K9




Legislative bodies and regulators in the U.S., Europe and selective other jurisdictions continue to conduct regulatory
reviews of CRAs, which may result in, for example, an increased number of competitors, changes to the business model or restrictions on certain business activities of MIS, or increased costs of doing business for MIS. Therefore, in order to broaden
the potential for expansion of non-ratings services, Moody’s reorganized in January 2008 into two distinct businesses: MIS, consisting solely of the ratings business, and MA. MA conducts all non-ratings activities including the sale of credit
research produced by MIS and the production and sale of other economic and credit-related products and services. The reorganization broadens the opportunities for expansion by MA into activities which may have otherwise
been restricted for MIS, due to the potential for conflicts of interest with the ratings business. At present, Moody’s is unable to assess the nature and effect that any regulatory changes may have on future growth opportunities.

MA expects to benefit from the growing demand among credit market participants for information that enables them to make sound investment and risk
management decisions. These customers require advanced qualitative and quantitative tools to support their management of increasingly complex capital market instruments. Such complexity creates analytical challenges for market participants,
including financial intermediaries, asset managers and other investors. In recent years, reliable third-party ratings and research served to supplement or substitute for traditional in-house research as the scale, geographic scope and complexity of
financial markets grew. MA remains focused on driving improvements in customer retention, product placements and new customer acquisition in this area. Credit market conditions improved in 2010, helping to raise customer retention level after a
period of higher than normal customer attrition in MA.

Growth in MA is also expected as financial institutions adopt active credit portfolio management
practices and implement internal credit assessment tools for compliance with Basel II regulations. MA offers products that respond to these needs. This growth will be realized by, for example, the development of new private firm default probability
models for specific countries and by expanding analysis capabilities of new asset classes.

The 2010 acquisition of CSI Global Education, Inc.,
Canada’s leading provider of financial learning, credentials and certification, strengthens MA’s capabilities for delivering credit training programs, and represents another means for the Company to pursue its objectives of enhancing risk
management practices, furthering financial education and promoting efficiency in the capital markets.

COMPETITION

The MIS business competes with other CRAs and with investment banks and brokerage firms that offer credit opinions and research. Many users of
MIS’s ratings also have in-house credit research capabilities. Moody’s largest competitor in the global credit rating business is Standard & Poor’s, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. There are some rating markets,
based on industry, geography and/or instrument type, in which Moody’s has made investments and obtained market positions superior to S&P’s while in other markets, the reverse is true.

In addition to S&P, MIS’s competitors include Fitch, Dominion Bond Rating Service Ltd. of Canada, A.M. Best Company Inc, Japan Credit Rating Agency Ltd.,
Rating and Investment Information Inc. of Japan and Egan-Jones Ratings Company. In 2008 two more firms were granted the Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations status in the U.S: LACE Financial Corp. and Realpoint LLC. In 2010 these
two firms were acquired by Kroll Bond Rating Agency, Inc. and Morningstar, Inc., respectively, to enable them to compete as NRSROs. Additional rating agencies may emerge in the U.S. as the SEC continues to expand the number of NRSROs. Other
competition may arise in the U.S. from credit opinion providers who do not operate as NRSRO’s, such as Bloomberg. Competition may also increase in developed or developing markets outside the U.S. over the next few years as the number of rating
agencies may increase, although a more regulated credit ratings industry, both in the U.S. and internationally, may provide for a less appealing expansion opportunity.

The increased regulatory focus on credit risk presents both opportunities and challenges for Moody’s. Global demand for credit ratings and risk management services may rise, but regulatory actions may result
in a greater number of rating agencies and/or additional regulation of Moody’s and its competitors. Alternatively, banking or securities market regulators could seek to reduce the use of ratings in regulations, thereby reducing certain elements
of demand for ratings, or otherwise seek to control the analysis or business of rating agencies.

Credit rating agencies such as MIS also compete with
other means of managing credit risk, such as credit insurance. Competitors that develop quantitative methodologies for assessing credit risk also may pose a competitive threat to Moody’s.

MA competes broadly in the financial information space against diversified competitors such as Thomson-Reuters, Bloomberg, RiskMetrics, S&P, Fitch, Dun & Bradstreet, and Markit Group among others.
MA’s main competitors within RD&A include S&P, Fitch Algorithmics, CreditSights, Thomson-Reuters, Intex, IHS Global Insight, BlackRock Solutions and other smaller boutique providers of fixed income analytics, valuations, economic data
and research. In RMS, MA faces competition from Fitch Algorithmics, SunGard, SAS, Oracle and other various smaller vendors and in-house solutions. Within professional services, MA competes with Oliver Wyman for certain credit risk advisory services,
with Omega Performance, DC Gardner, and a host of boutique providers for financial training.



10MOODY’S2010 10-K




MOODY’S STRATEGY

Moody’s continues to follow growth strategies that adapt to market conditions and capitalize on emerging opportunities.

Given recent market turmoil, Moody’s immediate focus is on making effective business decisions to adapt to challenging economic, market and regulatory conditions while positioning the Company to benefit from
gradual recovery in global credit market activity.

Given the renewed attention to risk analysis and risk management, Moody’s is committed to
further encouraging the informed use of credit ratings, research and related analytics products.

Moody’s seeks to differentiate itself from
incumbent and potential competitors with predictive, uniquely thoughtful and forward-looking opinions about credit and the credit industry.

Adapting to
market changes is a key factor in maintaining market relevance. Moody’s continuously monitors opportunities to selectively diversify its revenue base through organic growth and acquisitions, in order to replace areas of lost revenue and
position the Company for new sources of business.

In support of those goals Moody’s intends to continue its focus in the following areas:

Expansion in Financial Centers

Moody’s serves its customers through its global network of offices and business affiliations. Moody’s currently maintains comprehensive rating and commercial operations in financial centers including
Beijing, Buenos Aires, Dubai, Frankfurt, Hong Kong, London, Madrid, Mexico City, Milan, Moscow, New York, Paris, Sao Paolo, Seoul, Singapore, Sydney, Tokyo and Toronto. Moody’s expects that its global network will position it to benefit from
the expansion of worldwide capital markets and thereby increase revenue. Moody’s also expects that the growth of its MIS business in Europe will return once there is clarity on the resolution of the European sovereign debt crisis. Additionally,
Moody’s expects to continue its expansion into developing markets either directly or through joint ventures. This will allow Moody’s to extend its credit opinion franchise to local and regional obligors, through domestic currency ratings
and national scale ratings.

New Rating Products

Moody’s continues to respond to investor demand for new products and enhancements. In the recent market turmoil, attention to core strengths has been crucial and enhancements have and continue to be focused on
quality and transparency. Given the particular disruption in the structured finance markets, MIS has been developing enhanced structured finance offerings to meet investor demands for more information content. Leveraging the diversity of its
research data and analytics, Moody’s has introduced cross-sector analysis to better illustrate the broader impacts of recent market events. This is further enhanced by the incorporation of macroeconomics to frame conditions and assumptions. MIS
continues to capitalize on market developments and enhance ratings surveillance efficiency, focusing on new ratings products and to identify, design, develop and maintain value-added research, analytics and data products serving the capital markets.

Internet-Enhanced Products and Services

Moody’s is expanding its use of the Internet and other electronic media to enhance customer service. The Company’s website provides the public with instant access to ratings and provides the public and
subscribers with credit research and risk assessment tools. Internet delivery also enables Moody’s to provide services to more individuals within a customer organization and to offer higher-value services because of more timely delivery.
Moody’s expects that access to these applications will increase customer use of the Company’s services. Moody’s expects to continue to invest in electronic media to capitalize on these and other opportunities.

Expansion of Credit Research Products and Investment Analytic Tools

Moody’s plans to expand its research and analytic services through internal development and potentially through acquisitions. Most new product initiatives are more analytical and data-intensive than
traditional narrative research offerings. Such services address investor interest in replicating the types of monitoring activities conducted by Moody’s analysts and provide the means for customers to gain access to raw data and financial
statistics and ratios used by MIS in the rating process for municipalities, companies and financial institutions. These products represent important sources of growth for MA’s RD&A business. MA is developing products in the fixed-income
valuations and pricing arena that facilitate price transparency in global fixed income markets, especially for complex structured securities and derivative instruments. Moreover, Moody’s continues to pursue opportunities to extend its research
relevance in new domestic or regional markets (e.g., China) as well as new functional markets (e.g., hedge funds).

New Quantitative
Credit Risk Assessment Services

Moody’s will continue to provide banks and other institutions with quantitative credit risk
assessment solutions. The Company believes that there will be increased demand for such services because they assist customers trading or holding credit-sensitive assets to better manage risk and deliver better performance. Also, international bank
regulatory authorities are assessing the



MOODY’S2010 10-K11




adequacy of banks’ internal credit risk management systems for the purpose of determining regulatory capital. The acquisition of Fermat in 2008 accelerated Moody’s capabilities in this
area. Such regulatory initiatives create demand for, and encourage adoption of, related services by banks from third-party providers.

REGULATION

In the U.S., since 1975, MIS has been designated as an NRSRO by the SEC. The SEC first applied the NRSRO designation in that year to
companies whose credit ratings could be used by broker-dealers for purposes of determining their net capital requirements. Since that time, Congress, the SEC and other governmental and private bodies have used the ratings of NRSROs to distinguish
between “investment-grade” and “non-investment-grade” securities, among other purposes.

MIS has been registered as an NRSRO with the SEC under the Exchange Act as of September 2007, and as of that time MIS has been subject
to the SEC’s oversight rules described above. As required by the rules, MIS has made its Form NRSRO Initial Application, its Annual Certification of Form NRSRO, and any associated updates publicly available by posting it on the Regulatory
Affairs page of the Company’s website.

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act was signed into law on July 21, 2010. The
subtitle of the Financial Reform Act that addresses the CRA industry is Title IX, Subtitle C. This subtitle seeks, among other things, to enhance transparency and accountability in the credit rating agency industry, and to reduce the regulatory
reliance on credit ratings. The majority of the provisions of Subtitle C of Title IX of the Financial Reform Act seek to regulate the activities of those CRAs that are registered under the SEC’s regulatory framework for NRSROs. Therefore, these
provisions will apply to any CRAs in MIS’s corporate family that fall under the NRSRO regime.

Provisions of the Financial Reform Act applicable to
NRSROs include, among others:



•heightened compliance standards, including the adoption of enhanced corporate governance and conflicts of interest policies and procedures, implementation of
professional standards for credit analysts and periodic compliance examinations;



•increased public disclosures, including disclosure of the ratings process and methodology, factors relied upon in formulating ratings, results of third-party due
diligence and accuracy of prior ratings;



•replacement of references to credit ratings in certain federal laws with broader references to the “credit-worthiness” of a security;



•a mandate that the SEC study the feasibility of establishing a system in which a utility or a self-regulatory organization assigns NRSROs to determine the credit
ratings of structured finance products to address so-called “rating-shopping” by issuers and underwriters of structured financial products; and



•rescission of Rule 436(g) under the Securities Act of 1933 (the “Securities Act”), which provided NRSROs with an exemption from expert liability under
the Securities Act for ratings information included in registration statements.

Certain of the above mentioned provisions were
effective immediately. These include provisions that potentially impact CRAs’ liability environment. The enhanced regulatory regime for CRAs could potentially increase the costs associated with the operation of a CRA and increase the legal risk
associated with the issuance of credit ratings. Moreover, it is possible that the number of legal proceedings, especially as related to future ratings, may increase materially and the potential exposure of CRAs thereunder may also increase. It is
possi-



12MOODY’S2010 10-K




ble that implementing changes to the Company’s operations to address the changed liability environment may result in lower revenues and/or increased expenses and may significantly change the
manner in which the Company conducts its credit rating business.

The majority of the provisions in the Financial Reform Act as it pertains to CRAs are
to be implemented through rule-making by the SEC and other regulatory authorities. The SEC has published a schedule for its rule making activity over the coming year, and it appears that the majority of the rule-making as it pertains to the CRA
industry will be conducted and completed in the first half of 2011. Specifically, the SEC has indicated that it expects to propose various rules for NRSROs to implement the relevant provisions of the Financial Reform Act before the end of March
2011. One provision that the SEC has already implemented, in accordance with the mandated time-line under the Financial Reform Act, is the elimination of the specific exemption from Regulation Fair Disclosure for information provided by issuers to
CRAs, for the purpose of developing a rating.

In addition, the SEC has several pending rule proposals on CRAs, including: 1) a rule proposal to require
disclosure about credit ratings when ratings are used in connection with the sale of registered securities; 2) a rule proposal regarding the NRSRO compliance function and disclosure about revenues received for credit rating services; and 3) rule
proposals regarding structured finance regulations. In January 2011, the SEC adopted a rule, which will come into effect on September 26, 2011, requiring NRSROs to disclose information about the representations and warranties of the structured
finance securities they rate. The bank regulators also have begun their rule making activities, and in October 2010 they closed a comment period requesting views from market participants on alternatives to credit ratings that could be incorporated
into banking supervision. MIS and MA both provided comments, and these can be found on the Company’s website.

Finally, as part of the ongoing
debate surrounding the financial crisis, MIS participated in a hearing held by the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission (“FCIC”) on June 2, 2010. The FCIC’s report and two dissenting opinions were published on January 27,
2011.

Internationally, several regulatory developments have occurred:

In September 2009, the G-20 met in Pittsburgh and developed a progress report on actions to promote global financial regulatory reform. With respect to CRAs, the
G-20 acknowledged that stronger oversight regimes for CRAs have been developed in the EU, the U.S. and Japan, and recognized that the development of good practices for due diligence by asset managers investing in structured finance products will
result in reduced reliance on credit ratings. The G-20 also expressed concern about the creation of globally inconsistent regulations.

More recently, on
October 23, 2010, the G-20 Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors met in Seoul, Korea in preparation for the November 2010 meeting of the G-20 Heads of State. Broadly, the Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors have agreed to
continue to work in cooperation with one another. In advance of this meeting, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the Financial Stability Board (FSB) published a report and a statement, respectively with the FSB publishing a more detailed
report on October 27, 2010. As pertaining to CRAs, both institutions advocate that governments reduce their reliance on credit ratings in regulation. While both entities acknowledge that the process will take time, they believe that the
mechanistic use of ratings by governments should over time be discontinued.

IOSCO—In December 2004, the Technical Committee of IOSCO published its
Code of Conduct Fundamentals for Credit Rating Agencies. In May 2008, IOSCO published the revised IOSCO Code. The changes made to the IOSCO Code broadly address greater transparency of methodologies and processes by CRAs. In July 2008, IOSCO also
announced that it will monitor the CRAs implementation of the IOSCO Code changes and it will explore the means by which IOSCO members might work together to verify the proper and complete disclosure by CRAs of information required by the IOSCO Code.

On March 12, 2009, IOSCO published its second review of the CRAs implementation of the IOSCO Code. The report noted that seven out of the 21 CRAs
reviewed had implemented the IOSCO Code in their own codes of conduct. In particular, MIS was found to have substantially implemented the 2008 revisions to the IOSCO Code. In addition, IOSCO announced the establishment of a new standing committee
that will address global issues regarding the CRA industry.



MOODY’S2010 10-K13




MIS has revised its Code of Professional Conduct (fashioned on the IOSCO Code) on several occasions to reflect the
changes made to the IOSCO Code and the broader changes in the regulatory environment for CRAs. Beginning in 2006, MIS has annually published a report that describes its implementation of its Code. The MIS Code and implementation reports can be found
on the Company’s website.

The Basel Committee—In June 2004, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision published a bank capital adequacy framework, called Basel II, to replace its
initial 1988 framework. Under Basel II, ratings assigned by recognized CRAs or ECAIs, can be used by banks in determining credit risk weights for many of their institutional credit exposures. Recognized ECAIs could be subject to a broader range of
oversight. National authorities have begun the ECAI recognition process. MIS has been recognized as an ECAI in several jurisdictions and the recognition process is ongoing in many others. As a result of the recent developments in the financial
markets, the banking authorities of the Basel Committee have been reconsidering the overall framework. Work on the new framework, Basel III, substantially has been completed. It is to be implemented in stages, beginning in 2010 and concluding in
2018. Basel III continues to use credit ratings as a tool in bank supervision.

Other legislation and regulation relating to credit rating and research
services is being considered by local, national and multinational bodies and this type of activity is likely to continue in the future. In addition, in certain countries, governments may provide financial or other support to locally-based rating
agencies. For example, governments may from time to time establish official rating agencies or credit ratings criteria or procedures for evaluating local issuers. If enacted, any such legislation and regulation could change the competitive landscape
in which MIS operates. The legal status of rating agencies has been addressed by courts in various decisions and is likely to be considered and addressed in legal proceedings from time to time in the future. Management of MIS cannot predict whether
these or any other proposals will be enacted, the outcome of any pending or possible future legal proceedings, or regulatory or legislative actions, or the ultimate impact of any such matters on the competitive position, financial position or
results of operations of Moody’s.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

The names of Moody’s products and services referred to herein are trademarks, service marks or registered trademarks or service marks owned by or licensed to
Moody’s or one or more of its subsidiaries.



14MOODY’S2010 10-K




EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 2010 the number of full-time equivalent employees of Moody’s was approximately 4,500.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

Moody’s investor relations Internet website is http://ir.moodys.com/. Under the “SEC Filings” tab at this website, the Company makes available free
of charge its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with, or furnished to, the SEC.

The SEC maintains an internet site that contains annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and other information statements that the Company files electronically
with the SEC. The SEC’s internet site is http://www.sec.gov/.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT



NAME, AGE AND POSITIONBIOGRAPHICAL DATA



Mark E. Almeida, 51President—Moody’s AnalyticsMr. Almeida has served as President of Moody’s Analytics since January 2008. Prior to this position, Mr. Almeida was Senior Vice President of Moody’s Corporation from August 2007 to January
2008, Senior Managing Director of the Investor Services Group (ISG) at Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. from December 2004 to January 2008 and was Group Managing Director of ISG from June 2000 to December 2004. Mr. Almeida joined Moody’s
Investors Service, Inc. in April 1988 and has held a variety of positions with the company in both the U.S. and overseas.



Richard Cantor, 53Chief Risk OfficerMr. Cantor has served as Chief Risk Officer of Moody’s Corporation since December 2008 and as Chief Credit Officer of Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. since November 2008. From July 2008 to
November 2008, Mr. Cantor served as Acting Chief Credit Officer. Prior thereto, Mr. Cantor was Managing Director of Moody’s Credit Policy Research Group from June 2001 to July 2008 and Senior Vice President in the Financial Guarantors Rating
Group. Mr. Cantor joined Moody’s in 1997 from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, where he served as Assistant Vice President in the Research Group and was Staff Director at the Discount Window. Prior to the Federal Reserve, Mr. Cantor taught
Economics at UCLA and Ohio State and has taught on an adjunct basis at the business schools of Columbia University and New York University.



Robert Fauber, 40Senior Vice President—Corporate DevelopmentMr. Fauber has served as Senior Vice President—Corporate Development of Moody’s Corporation since April 2009 and as Vice President-Corporate Development since he joined Moody’s in September
2005 to April 2009. Prior to joining Moody’s, Mr. Fauber served in several roles at Citigroup from 1999 to 2005, including most recently, Director of Planning and Business Development for Citigroup’s Alternative Investments division. Prior
to that, Mr. Fauber worked as a Director in Corporate Strategy & Business Development for Citigroup and a Vice President and Associate in the Financial Sponsor and Telecom investment banking groups at the firm’s Salomon Smith Barney
subsidiary. From 1992-1996, Mr. Fauber worked at NationsBank (now Bank of America), working in the middle market commercial banking group and also ran the firm’s Global Finance college recruiting program in 1997.



John J. Goggins, 50Senior Vice President and General CounselMr. Goggins has served as the Company’s Senior Vice President and General Counsel since October 1, 2000. Mr. Goggins joined Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. in February 1999 as Vice
President and Associate General Counsel. Prior thereto, he served as counsel at Dow Jones & Company from 1995 to 1999, where he was responsible for securities, acquisitions and general corporate matters. Prior to Dow Jones, he was an associate
at Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft from 1985 to 1995, where he specialized in mergers and acquisitions.



Linda S. Huber, 52Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerMs. Huber has served as the Company’s Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since May 2005. Prior thereto, she served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer at
U.S. Trust Company, a subsidiary of Charles Schwab & Company, Inc., from



MOODY’S2010 10-K15




NAME, AGE AND POSITIONBIOGRAPHICAL DATA



2003 to 2005. Prior to U.S. Trust, she was Managing Director at Freeman & Co. from 1998 through 2002. She served PepsiCo as Vice President of Corporate Strategy and Development from 1997
until 1998 and as Vice President and Assistant Treasurer from 1994 until 1997. She served as Vice President in the Energy Investment Banking Group at Bankers Trust Company from 1991 until 1994 and as an Associate in the Energy Group at First Boston
Corporation from 1986 through 1990. She also held the rank of Captain in the U.S. Army where she served from 1980 to 1984.



Michel Madelain, 55President and Chief Operating Officer—Moody’s Investors ServiceMr. Madelain has served as President of Moody’s Investors Service Inc. since November 2010 and as Chief Operating Officer since May 2008. Prior to this, Mr. Madelain served as Executive Vice
President, Fundamental Ratings from September 2007 to May 2008, with responsibility for all Global Fundamental Ratings, including Corporate Finance, Financial Institutions, Public Finance and Infrastructure Finance. He managed the Financial
Institutions group from March 2007 until September 2007. Mr. Madelain served as Group Managing Director, EMEA Corporate Ratings from November 2000 to March 2007 and prior thereto held several Managing Director positions in the U.S. and U.K.
Fundamental Rating Groups. Prior to joining Moody’s in 1994, Mr. Madelain served as a Partner of Ernst & Young, Auditing Practice. Mr. Madelain is qualified as a Chartered Accountant in France.



Joseph (Jay) McCabe, 60Senior Vice President—Corporate ControllerMr. McCabe has served as the Company’s Senior Vice President—Corporate Controller since December 2005. Mr. McCabe joined Moody’s in July 2004 as Vice President and Corporate
Controller. Before joining the Company, he served as Vice President—Corporate Controller at PPL Corporation, an energy and utility holding company, from 1994 to 2003. Prior to PPL Corporation, he served Deloitte & Touche as Partner from
1984 to 1993 and as a member of the firm’s audit practice from 1973 to 1984.



Raymond W. McDaniel, Jr., 53Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerRaymond W. McDaniel, Jr., has served as the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company since April 2005 and serves on the MIS and International Business Development Committees of the Board of
Directors. Mr. McDaniel served as the Company’s President from October 2004 until April 2005 and the Company’s Chief Operating Officer from January 2004 until April 2005. He has served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of
Moody’s Investors Service, Inc., a subsidiary of the Company, since October 2007 and held the additional title of President from November 2001 to August 2007 and December 2008 to November 2010. Mr. McDaniel served as the Company’s
Executive Vice President from April 2003 to January 2004, and as Senior Vice President, Global Ratings and Research from November 2000 until April 2003. He served as Senior Managing Director, Global Ratings and Research, of Moody’s Investors
Service from November 2000 until November 2001 and as Managing Director, International from 1996 to November 2000. Mr. McDaniel currently is a Director of John Wiley & Sons, Inc.



Lisa S. Westlake, 49Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resource OfficerMs. Westlake has served as the Company’s Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer since November 2008. Prior to this position, Ms. Westlake served as Vice President—Investor
Relations from December 2006 to December 2008 and Managing Director—Finance from September 2004 to December 2006. Prior to joining the Company, Ms. Westlake was a senior consultant with the Schiff Consulting Group from 2003 to 2004. From 1996
to 2003 Ms. Westlake worked at American Express Company where she held several different positions such as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for the OPEN Business Network, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for Establishment
Services and Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for Relationship Services. From 1989 to 1995 Ms. Westlake held a range of financial management positions at Dun & Bradstreet Corporation and its subsidiary at the time, IMS International.
From 1984 to 1987 Ms. Westlake served at Lehman Brothers in both the investment banking and municipal trading areas.



16MOODY’S2010 10-K




