ITEM 1.BUSINESS

BACKGROUND

As used in this report, except where the context indicates otherwise, the terms “Moody’s” or the “Company” refer to Moody’s Corporation, a
Delaware corporation, and its subsidiaries. The Company’s executive offices are located at 7 World Trade Center at 250 Greenwich Street, New York, NY 10007 and its telephone number is (212) 553-0300.

THE COMPANY

Moody’s is a provider of
(i) credit ratings, (ii) credit, capital markets and economic related research, data and analytical tools, (iii) software solutions and related risk management services, (iv) quantitative credit risk measures, financial services
training and certification services and (v) outsourced research and analytical services to financial institution customers. Moody’s reports in two reportable segments: MIS and MA. Financial information and operating results of these
segments, including revenue, expenses and operating income, are included in Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements of this annual report, and are herein incorporated by reference.

The MA
segment develops a wide range of products and services that support financial analysis and risk management activities of institutional participants in global financial markets. Within its Research, Data and Analytics business, MA distributes
research and data developed by MIS as part of its ratings process, including in-depth research on major debt issuers, industry studies, commentary on topical credit related events and also provides economic research and credit data and analytical
tools such as quantitative credit risk scores. Within its Enterprise Risk Solutions business, MA provides software solutions as well as related risk management services. Within its Professional Services business it provides outsourced research and
analytical services along with financial training and certification programs. MA customers represent more than 4,700 institutions worldwide operating in approximately 130 countries. During 2014 Moody’s research web site was accessed by over
245,000 individuals including 33,000 client users.

The Company operated as part of “Old D&B” until September 30, 2000, when Old D&B separated
into two publicly traded companies – Moody’s Corporation and New D&B. At that time, Old D&B distributed to its shareholders shares of New D&B stock. New D&B comprised the business of Old D&B’s Dun &
Bradstreet operating company. The remaining business of Old D&B consisted solely of the business of providing ratings and related research and credit risk management services and was renamed Moody’s Corporation. For purposes of governing
certain ongoing relationships between the Company and New D&B after the 2000 Distribution, the Company and New D&B entered into various agreements including a distribution agreement, tax allocation agreement and employee benefits agreement.

PROSPECTS FOR GROWTH

Over recent decades, global
fixed-income markets have grown significantly both in terms of the amount and the types of securities or other obligations outstanding. Beginning in mid-2007, there was a severe market disruption and associated financial crisis both in the



10MOODY’S2014 10K




developed and emerging markets resulting in a global decline in issuance activity for some significant asset classes and weak economic performance in advanced economies. Since this financial
crisis, many markets and economies have recovered and Moody’s believes that the overall long-term outlook remains favorable for continued growth of the global fixed-income market and related financial information market, which includes
information such as credit opinions, research, data, analytics, risk management tools and related services.

Moody’s growth is influenced by a number of trends
that impact financial information markets including:



»Health of the world’s major economies;



»Debt capital markets activity;



»Disintermediation of credit markets;



»Fiscal and monetary policy of governments;



»Changing regulatory requirements; and



»Business investment spending.

Moody’s is well positioned to benefit from a continued growth in global fixed-income
market activity and a more informed use of credit ratings as well as research and related analytical products in an environment with heightened attention to credit risk analysis and management. Moody’s expects that these developments will
support continued long-term demand for high-quality, independent credit opinions, research, data, analytics, risk management tools and related services.

Strong
secular trends should continue to provide long-term growth opportunities. Moody’s key growth drivers include debt market issuance driven by global GDP growth, continued disintermediation of fixed-income markets in both developed and emerging
economies that drives issuance and demand for new products and services, growth in MA driven by further penetration into MA’s client base and expansion of bank and insurance risk regulatory requirements, pricing opportunities aligned with value
and advances in information technology.

The pace of change in technology and communication over the past two decades makes information about investment alternatives
widely available throughout the world and facilitates issuers’ ability to place securities outside their national markets and investors’ capacity to obtain information about securities issued outside their national markets. Technology also
allows issuers and investors the ability to more readily obtain information about new financing techniques and new types of securities that they may wish to purchase or sell, which in the absence of the appropriate technology may not be readily or
easily obtainable. This availability of information promotes the ongoing integration and expansion of financial markets worldwide giving issuers and investors access to a wider range of established and newer capital markets. As technology provides
broader access to worldwide markets, it also results in a greater need for credible, globally comparable opinions about credit risk, data, analytics and related services. Additionally, information technology also provides opportunities to further
build a global platform to support Moody’s continued expansion in developing markets.

An ongoing trend in the world’s capital markets is the
disintermediation of financial systems. Issuers increasingly raise capital in the global public capital markets, in addition to, or in substitution for, traditional financial intermediaries. Moreover, financial intermediaries have sold assets in the
global public capital markets, in addition to, or instead of, retaining those assets. Moody’s believes that debt capital markets offer advantages in capacity and efficiency compared to the traditional banking systems and that the trend of
increased disintermediation will continue. Further, disintermediation has continued because of the ongoing low interest rate environment and bank deleveraging, which has encouraged a number of corporations and other entities to seek alternative
funding in the bond markets.



MOODY’S2014 10K11




Moody’s also observes disintermediation in key emerging markets where economic growth may outpace internal banking system capacity. Thus, disintermediation is expected to continue over the
longer-term, with Moody’s targeting investment and resources to those markets where disintermediation and bond issuance is expected to remain robust.

In
response to the credit market disruptions beginning in mid-2007 and, ongoing volatility in the global capital markets, and new regulatory requirements, financial institutions are investing in people, processes and systems to enhance risk management
and compliance functions. Regulations such as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, Basel II, Basel III, Solvency II and others may stimulate demand for MA products. Financial institutions are also investing in advanced
qualitative and quantitative tools and services to support their management of complex balance sheets and diverse portfolios as well as operating costs. MA offers a suite of risk management products and services to address these needs, including but
not limited to risk management software, economic analysis, training and professional services.

Legislative bodies and regulators in the U.S., Europe and other
jurisdictions continue to conduct regulatory reviews of CRAs, which may result in, for example, an increased number of competitors, changes to the business model or restrictions on certain business activities of MIS, removal of references to ratings
in certain regulations, or increased costs of doing business for MIS. Therefore, in order to broaden the potential for expansion of non-ratings services, Moody’s reorganized in January 2008 into two distinct businesses: MIS, consisting
primarily of the ratings business, and MA, which conducts activities including the sale of credit research produced by MIS and the production and sale of other economic and credit-related products and services. The reorganization broadens the
opportunities for expansion by MA into activities that may have otherwise been restricted for MIS, due to the potential for conflicts of interest with the ratings business. At present, Moody’s is unable to assess the nature and effect that any
regulatory changes may have on future growth opportunities.

Moody’s operations are subject to various risks, as more fully described in Part I, Item 1A
“Risk Factors,” inherent in conducting business on a global basis. Such risks include currency fluctuations and possible nationalization, expropriation, exchange and price controls, changes in the availability of data from public sector
sources, limits on providing information across borders and other restrictive governmental actions.

COMPETITION

MIS competes with other CRAs and with investment banks and brokerage firms that offer credit opinions and research. Many users of MIS’s ratings also have in-house
credit research capabilities. MIS’s largest competitor in the global credit rating business is Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services (S&P), a division of McGraw Hill Financial. There are some rating markets, based on industry,
geography and/or instrument type, in which Moody’s has made investments and obtained market positions superior to S&P, while in other markets, the reverse is true.

In addition to S&P, MIS’s competitors include Fitch Ratings, Dominion Bond Rating Service, A.M. Best Company, Japan Credit Rating Agency Ltd., Kroll Bond Rating
Agency Inc., Morningstar Inc. and Egan-Jones Ratings Company. In Europe, examples of competitors include Euler Hermes Rating, Feri EuroRating Services AG, Creditreform Rating AG, ICAP Group and Companhia Portuguesa de Rating. There are additional
competitors in other regions and countries, for example, in China, where Moody’s operates through a joint venture. These competitors include China Lianhe Credit Rating Co Ltd., Shanghai Brilliance Credit Rating & Investors Service Co
Ltd., Dagong Global Credit Rating Co Ltd. and Pengyuan Credit Rating Co Ltd.

MA competes broadly in the financial information industry against diversified
competitors such as Thomson Reuters, Bloomberg, S&P Capital IQ, Fitch Solutions, Dun & Bradstreet, IBM, Wolters Kluwer, Sungard, SAS, Fiserv, MSCI and Markit Group among others. MA’s main competitors within RD&A include S&P
Capital IQ, CreditSights, Thomson Reuters, Intex, IHS Global Insight, BlackRock Solutions, FactSet and other providers of fixed income analytics, valuations, economic data and research. In ERS, MA faces competition from both large software providers
such as IBM Algorithmics, SunGard, SAS, Oracle, Misys, Oliver Wyman, Verisk and various other vendors and in-house solutions. Within Professional Services, MA competes with Omega Performance, DC Gardner, and a host of financial training and
education firms, and with Evalueserve, CRISIL Global Research & Analytics, and other providers of outsourced research and professional services, respectively.

MOODY’S STRATEGY

Moody’s corporate strategy
is to be the world’s most respected authority serving financial risk-sensitive markets. The key aspects to implement this strategy are to:



»Defend and enhance the core ratings and research business of MIS;



»Build MA’s position as a leading provider of risk management solutions to financial institutions; and



»Invest in strategic growth opportunities.



12MOODY’S2014 10K




Moody’s will make investments to defend and enhance its core businesses in an attempt to position the Company to fully
capture market opportunities resulting from global debt capital market expansion and increased business investment spending. Moody’s will also make strategic investments to achieve scale in attractive financial information markets, move into
attractive product and service adjacencies where the Company can leverage its brand, extend its thought leadership and expand its geographic presence in high growth emerging markets.

To broaden the Company’s potential, MA provides a wide range of products and services to enable financial institutions to better manage risk. As such, MA adds to the
Company’s value proposition in three ways. First, MA’s subscription businesses provide a significant base of recurring revenue to offset cyclicality in ratings issuance volumes that may result in volatility to MIS’s revenues. Second,
MA products and services, such as financial training and professional services on research and risk management best practices, provide opportunities for entry into emerging markets before debt capital markets fully develop and thus present long-term
growth opportunities for the ratings business. Finally, MA’s integrated risk management software platform embeds Moody’s solutions deep into the technology infrastructure of banks and insurance companies worldwide.

Moody’s invests in initiatives to implement the Company’s strategy, including internally-led organic development and targeted acquisitions. Example initiatives
include:



»Enhancements to ratings quality and product extensions;



»Investments that extend ownership and participation in joint ventures and strategic alliances;



»Headcount growth to meet customer demand for new products and services;



»Selective, bolt-on acquisitions that accelerate the ability to scale and grow Moody’s businesses; and



»Expansion in emerging markets.

During 2014, Moody’s completed several strategic transactions in MIS and MA. In June,
Moody’s secured majority control of ICRA Ltd., which is a leading provider of credit ratings and research in India, increasing its ownership position from 28.5% to just over 50.0%. In December, Moody’s completed the acquisition of the
remaining outstanding interest of Copal Amba (formed through the acquisitions of Copal Partners in 2011 and Amba Investment Services in 2013) and now owns 100% of the company.

Moody’s also made two acquisitions in MA to enhance and expand its product and service offerings to enable financial institutions to better manage risk. In July,
Moody’s acquired WebEquity Solutions, LLC, which is a leading provider of cloud-based loan origination solutions for financial institutions. The WebEquity acquisition strengthens MA’s position as a leader in loan origination software and
bolsters its suite of award-winning risk management products for banks, insurance companies and corporations. In October, Moody’s acquired Lewtan Technologies, which is a leading provider of analytical tools and data for the global structured
finance market. Lewtan provides solutions to issuers, investors, underwriters and others to administer, monitor and value securitized transactions.

REGULATION

MIS and many of the securities that it rates are subject to extensive regulation in both the U.S. and in other countries (including by state and
local authorities). Thus, existing and proposed laws and regulations can impact the Company’s operations and the markets for securities that it rates. Additional laws and regulations have been adopted but not yet implemented or have been
proposed or are being considered. Each of the existing, adopted, proposed and potential laws and regulations can increase the costs and legal risk associated with the issuance of credit ratings and may negatively impact Moody’s operations or
profitability, the Company’s ability to compete, or result in changes in the demand for credit ratings, in the manner in which ratings are utilized and in the manner in which Moody’s operates.

The regulatory landscape has changed rapidly in recent years, and continues to evolve. In the EU, the CRA industry is registered and supervised through a pan-European
regulatory framework. The European Securities and Markets Authority has direct supervisory responsibility for the registered CRA industry throughout the EU. MIS is a registered entity and is therefore subject to formal regulation and periodic
inspection. Applicable rules include procedural requirements with respect to ratings of sovereign issuers, liability for intentional or grossly negligent failure to abide by applicable regulations, mandatory rotation requirements of CRAs hired by
issuers of securities for ratings of resecuritizations, restrictions on CRAs or their shareholders if certain ownership thresholds are crossed, and additional procedural and substantive requirements on the pricing of services.

On January 6, 2015, two additional rules (generally referred to as “Regulatory Technical Standards” or “RTSs”) of direct relevance to the CRA
industry were published in the Official Journal of the European Union: (i) CRAs’ reporting requirements to ESMA on their fees; and (ii) the types of information that CRAs are to provide about certain ratings (those that were paid for
by issuers) for publication on a central website administered by ESMA (the European Ratings Platform). The RTSs were the final pieces of the rulemaking requirements



MOODY’S2014 10K13




that CRA3 imposed on ESMA and the EU’s legislative tripartite (the European Commission, the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union). Separately, CRA3 also requires that
ESMA and / or the European Commission produce several reports on the industry’s structure and the use of ratings. These reports are expected to be published by year end 2015.

In the U.S., CRAs are subject to extensive regulation primarily pursuant to the Reform Act and the Financial Reform Act. The SEC is required by these legislative acts to
publish two annual reports to Congress on NRSROs. The Financial Reform Act requires the SEC to examine each NRSRO once a year and issue an annual report summarizing the examination findings, among other requirements. The annual report required by
the Reform Act details the SEC’s views on the state of competition, transparency and conflicts of interests among NRSROs, among other requirements.

The SEC
voted in August 2014 to adopt its final rules for NRSROs as required by the Financial Reform Act. The final rules differ from earlier proposals by including additional measures regarding: (i) sales and marketing activities; and (ii) the
design and enforcement of internal controls for the rating process. The Company has made and continues to make substantial IT and other investments. Consequently, the Company will be in a position to implement the relevant compliance obligations by
the set deadlines, generally ranging from 60 days to 9 months following the September 15, 2014 publication of the final rules in the Federal Register.

In light
of the regulations that have gone into effect in both the EU and the U.S. (as well as many other countries), from time to time and as a matter of course pursuant to their enabling legislation these regulatory authorities have and will continue to
publish reports that describe their oversight activities over the industry. In addition, other legislation and regulation relating to credit rating and research services is being considered by local, national and multinational bodies and this type
of activity is likely to continue in the future. Finally, in certain countries, governments may provide financial or other support to locally-based rating agencies. For example, governments may from time to time establish official rating agencies or
credit ratings criteria or procedures for evaluating local issuers. If enacted, any such legislation and regulation could change the competitive landscape in which MIS operates. The legal status of rating agencies has been addressed by courts in
various decisions and is likely to be considered and addressed in legal proceedings from time to time in the future. Management of the Company cannot predict whether these or any other proposals will be enacted, the outcome of any pending or
possible future legal proceedings, or regulatory or legislative actions, or the ultimate impact of any such matters on the competitive position, financial position or results of operations of Moody’s.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

Moody’s and its affiliates
own and control a variety of intellectual property, including but not limited to proprietary information, trademarks, research, software tools and applications, models and methodologies, databases, domain names, and other proprietary materials that,
in the aggregate, are of material importance to Moody’s business. Management of Moody’s believes that each of the trademarks and related corporate names, marks and logos containing the term “Moody’s” are of material
importance to the Company.

The Company, primarily through MA, licenses certain of its databases, software applications, credit risk models, training courses in
credit risk and capital markets, research and other publications and services that contain Intellectual Property to its customers. These licenses are provided pursuant to standard fee-bearing agreements containing customary restrictions and
intellectual property protections.

In addition, Moody’s licenses certain technology and other intellectual property rights owned and controlled by others.
Specifically, Moody’s licenses financial information (such as market and index data, financial statement data, third party research, default data, and security identifiers) as well as software development tools and libraries. The Company
obtains such technology and intellectual property rights from generally available commercial sources. Most of such technology and intellectual property is available from a variety of sources. Although certain financial information (particularly
security identifiers and certain pricing or index data) is available only from a limited number of sources, Moody’s does not believe it is dependent on any one data source for a material aspect of its business.

The Company considers its Intellectual Property to be proprietary, and Moody’s relies on a combination of copyright, trademark, trade secret, patent, non-disclosure
and other contractual safeguards for protection. Moody’s also pursues instances of third-party infringement of its Intellectual Property in order to protect the Company’s rights. The Company owns two patents. None of the Intellectual
Property is subject to a specific expiration date, except to the extent that the patents and the copyright in items that the Company authors (such as credit reports, research, software, and other written opinions) expire pursuant to relevant law.

The names of Moody’s products and services referred to herein are trademarks, service marks or registered trademarks or service marks owned by or licensed to
Moody’s or one or more of its subsidiaries.

EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 2014 the number of full-time equivalent employees of Moody’s was approximately 9,900.



14MOODY’S2014 10K




AVAILABLE INFORMATION

Moody’s investor relations Internet website is http://ir.moodys.com/. Under the “SEC Filings” tab at this website, the Company makes available free of
charge its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with, or furnished to, the SEC.

The SEC maintains an internet site that contains annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and other information statements that the Company files electronically with
the SEC. The SEC’s internet site is http://www.sec.gov/.

Executive Officers of the Registrant





Name, Age and PositionBiographical Data



Mark E. Almeida, 55President, Moody’s AnalyticsMr. Almeida has served as President of Moody’s Analytics since January 2008. Prior to this position, Mr. Almeida was Senior Vice President of Moody’s Corporation from August 2007 to
January 2008, Senior Managing Director of the Investor Services Group (ISG) at Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. from December 2004 to January 2008 and was Group Managing Director of ISG from June 2000 to December 2004. Mr. Almeida joined
Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. in April 1988 and has held a variety of positions with the company in both the U.S. and overseas.



Richard Cantor, 57Chief Risk OfficerMr. Cantor has served as Chief Risk Officer of Moody’s Corporation since December 2008 and as Chief Credit Officer of Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. since November 2008. From July 2008
to November 2008, Mr. Cantor served as Acting Chief Credit Officer. Prior thereto, Mr. Cantor was Managing Director of Moody’s Credit Policy Research Group from June 2001 to July 2008, after serving as Senior Vice President in the Financial
Guarantors Rating Group. Mr. Cantor joined Moody’s in 1997 from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, where he served as Assistant Vice President in the Research Group and was Staff Director at the Discount Window. Prior to the Federal Reserve,
Mr. Cantor taught Economics at UCLA and Ohio State and has taught on an adjunct basis at the business schools of Columbia University and New York University.



Robert Fauber, 44Senior Vice President,Corporate and Commercial DevelopmentMr. Fauber has served as Senior Vice President—Corporate & Commercial Development since April 2014 and has been Head of the MIS Commercial Group since January 2013. From April 2009
through April 2014 he served as Senior Vice President—Corporate Development of Moody’s Corporation. Mr. Fauber served as Vice President-Corporate Development from September 2005 to April 2009. Prior to joining Moody’s, Mr. Fauber
served in several roles at Citigroup from 1999 to 2005, including most recently, Director of Planning and Business Development for Citigroup’s Alternative Investments division. Prior to that, Mr. Fauber worked as a Director in Corporate
Strategy & Business Development for Citigroup and a Vice President and Associate in the Financial Sponsor and Telecom investment banking groups at the firm’s Salomon Smith Barney subsidiary. From 1992-1996, Mr. Fauber worked at
NationsBank (now Bank of America), working in the middle market commercial banking group and also ran the firm’s Global Finance college recruiting program in 1997.



John J. Goggins, 54Executive Vice Presidentand General
CounselMr. Goggins has served as the Company’s Executive Vice President and General Counsel since April 2011 and the Company’s Senior Vice President and General Counsel from October 2000 until
April 2011. Mr. Goggins joined Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. in February 1999 as Vice President and Associate General Counsel. Prior thereto, he served as counsel at Dow Jones & Company from 1995 to 1999, where he was responsible for
securities, acquisitions and general corporate matters. Prior to Dow Jones, he was an associate at Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft from 1985 to 1995, where he specialized in mergers and acquisitions.



Linda S. Huber, 56Executive Vice Presidentand Chief
Financial OfficerMs. Huber has served as the Company’s Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since May 2005. Prior thereto, she served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
at U.S. Trust Company, a subsidiary of Charles Schwab & Company, Inc., from 2003 to 2005. Prior to U.S. Trust, she was Managing Director at Freeman & Co. from 1998 through 2002. She served PepsiCo as Vice President of Corporate Strategy and
Development from 1997 until 1998 and as Vice President and Assistant Treasurer from 1994 until 1997. She served as Vice President in the Energy Investment Banking Group at Bankers Trust Company from 1991 until 1994 and as an Associate in the Energy
Group at First Boston Corporation from 1986 through 1990. She also held the rank of Captain in the U.S. Army where she served from 1980 to 1984.



MOODY’S2014 10K15






Name, Age and PositionBiographical Data



Michel Madelain, 59President andChief Operating
Officer, Moody’s Investors ServiceMr. Madelain has served as President of Moody’s Investors Service Inc. since November 2010 and as Chief Operating Officer since May 2008. Prior to this, Mr. Madelain served as Executive Vice President, Fundamental Ratings
from September 2007 to May 2008, with responsibility for all Global Fundamental Ratings, including Corporate Finance, Financial Institutions, Public Finance and Infrastructure Finance. He managed the Financial Institutions group from March 2007
until September 2007. Mr. Madelain served as Group Managing Director, EMEA Corporate Ratings from November 2000 to March 2007 and prior thereto held several Managing Director positions in the U.S. and U.K. Fundamental Rating Groups. Prior to joining
Moody’s in 1994, Mr. Madelain served as a Partner of Ernst & Young, Auditing Practice. Mr. Madelain is qualified as a Chartered Accountant in France.



Joseph (Jay) McCabe, 64Senior Vice President,Corporate
ControllerMr. McCabe has served as the Company’s Senior Vice President—Corporate Controller since December 2005. Mr. McCabe joined Moody’s in July 2004 as Vice President and Corporate Controller. Before joining the Company,
he served as Vice President—Corporate Controller at PPL Corporation, an energy and utility holding company, from 1994 to 2003. Prior to PPL Corporation, he served Deloitte & Touche as Partner from 1984 to 1993 and as a member of the
firm’s audit practice from 1973 to 1984.



Raymond W. McDaniel, Jr., 57President
andChief Executive OfficerMr. McDaniel has served as the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company since April 2012, and served as the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer from April 2005 until April 2012. He currently serves on the MIS
Committee of the Board of Directors. Mr. McDaniel served as the Company’s President from October 2004 until April 2005 and the Company’s Chief Operating Officer from January 2004 until April 2005. He has served as Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer of Moody’s Investors Service, Inc., a subsidiary of the Company, since October 2007 and held the additional title of President from November 2001 to August 2007 and December 2008 to November 2010. Mr. McDaniel served as the
Company’s Executive Vice President from April 2003 to January 2004, and as Senior Vice President, Global Ratings and Research from November 2000 until April 2003. He served as Senior Managing Director, Global Ratings and Research, of
Moody’s Investors Service from November 2000 until November 2001 and as Managing Director, International from 1996 to November 2000. Mr. McDaniel currently is a Director of John Wiley & Sons, Inc. and is a member of the Board of Trustees of
Muhlenberg College.



Lisa S. Westlake, 53Senior Vice President
andChief Human Resource OfficerMs. Westlake has served as the Company’s Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer since November 2008. Prior to this position, Ms. Westlake served as Vice President—Investor Relations from December 2006
to November 2008 and Managing Director—Finance from September 2004 to December 2006. Prior to joining the Company, Ms. Westlake was a senior consultant with the Schiff Consulting Group from 2003 to 2004. From 1996 to 2003 Ms. Westlake worked at
American Express Company where she held several different positions such as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for the OPEN Small Business Network, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for Establishment Services and Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer for Relationship Services. From 1989 to 1995 Ms. Westlake held a range of financial management positions at Dun & Bradstreet Corporation and its subsidiary at the time, IMS International. From 1984 to 1987 Ms. Westlake
served at Lehman Brothers in both the investment banking and municipal trading areas.



Blair L. Worrall, 58Senior Vice President,Ratings
Delivery and DataMr. Worrall has served as Senior Vice President—Ratings Delivery and Data since February 2013 and Head of MIS Ratings Transaction Services since January 2014. Mr. Worrall served as Senior Vice President—Internal Audit
from April 2011 to February 2013 and as Vice President—Internal Audit from September 2007 to April 2011. He served as the Controller for MIS from November 2004 until September 2007. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Worrall was Vice President,
Accounting for RCN Corporation from 2002 to 2004 and held various finance positions at Dow Jones & Company, Inc. from 1979 to 2001.



16MOODY’S2014 10K




