ITEM1.BUSINESS

BACKGROUND

As used in this report, except where the context indicates otherwise, the terms “Moody’s” or the “Company” refer to Moody’s Corporation, a
Delaware corporation, and its subsidiaries. The Company’s executive offices are located at 7 World Trade Center at 250 Greenwich Street, New York, NY 10007 and its telephone number is(212) 553-0300.

THE COMPANY

Moody’s is a provider of
(i) credit ratings; (ii) credit, capital markets and economic research, data and analytical tools; (iii) software solutions that support financial risk management activities; (iv) quantitatively derived credit scores; (v)
financial services training and certification services; (vi) offshore financial research and analytical services; and (vii) company information and business intelligence products. Moody’s reports in two reportable segments: MIS and
MA. Financial information and operating results of these segments, including revenue, expenses and operating income, are included in Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements of this annual report, and are herein incorporated by reference.

MIS publishes credit ratings on a wide range of debt obligations and the entities that issue such obligations in markets worldwide, including various corporate and
governmental obligations, structured finance securities and commercial paper programs. Ratings revenue is derived from the originators and issuers of such transactions who use MIS ratings to support the distribution of their debt issues to
investors. MIS provides ratings in more than 120 countries. Ratings are disseminated via press releases to the public through a variety of print and electronic media, including the Internet and real-time information systems widely used by securities
traders and investors. As of December 31, 2017, MIS had the following ratings relationships:



»Approximately 4,700 ratednon-financialcorporate issuers;



»Approximately 4,100 rated financial institutions issuers;



»Approximately 18,000 rated public finance issuers (including sovereign,sub-sovereignand supranational issuers);



»Approximately 11,000 rated structured finance transactions; and



»Approximately 1,000 rated infrastructure and project finance issuers.

Additionally, MIS earns revenue from certainnon-ratings-relatedoperations, which primarily consist of financial instruments pricing services in the Asia-Pacific region as well as revenue from ICRAnon-ratingoperations. The revenue from these operations is included in the MIS Other LOB and is not material to the results of the MIS segment.

The MA segment develops a wide
range of products and services that support financial analysis and risk management activities of institutional participants in global financial markets. Within its Research, Data and Analytics business, MA distributes research and data developed by
MIS as part of its ratings process, includingin-depthresearch on major debt issuers, industry studies, commentary on topical credit related events. The RD&A LOB also provides economic research and credit
data and analytical tools such as quantitative credit risk scores as well as business intelligence and company information products. Within its Enterprise Risk Solutions business, MA provides software solutions as well as related risk management
services. Within its Professional Services business it provides offshore research and analytical services along with financial training and certification programs. MA customers represent more than 10,500 institutions worldwide operating in over 155
countries. During 2017 Moody’s research website was accessed by over 252,000 individuals including 36,000 customer users.

PROSPECTS FOR GROWTH

Over recent decades, global
fixed-income markets have grown significantly both in terms of the amount and types of securities or other obligations outstanding. Beginning inmid-2007,there was a severe market disruption and associated
financial crisis both in the devel-



MOODY’S2017 10-K11




oped and emerging markets resulting in a global decline in debt issuance activity for some significant asset classes and weak economic performance in advanced economies. Since this financial
crisis, many markets and economies have recovered and Moody’s believes the overall long-term outlook remains favorable for continued growth of the global fixed-income market and related financial information market, which includes information
such as credit opinions, research, data, analytics, risk management tools and related services.

Moody’s growth is influenced by a number of trends that impact
financial information markets including:



»Health of the world’s major economies;



»Debt capital markets activity;



»Disintermediation of credit markets;



»Fiscal and monetary policy of governments; and



»Business investment spending, including mergers and acquisitions.

In an environment of increasing financial complexity
and heightened attention to credit analysis and risk management, Moody’s is well positioned to benefit from continued growth in global fixed-income market activity and a more widespread use of credit ratings, research and related analytical
products. Moody’s expects that these developments will support continued long-term demand for high quality, independent credit opinions, research, data, analytics, risk management tools and related services.

Strong secular trends should continue to provide long-term growth opportunities. For MIS, key growth drivers include debt market issuance driven by global GDP growth,
continued disintermediation of fixed-income markets in both developed and emerging economies driving issuance and demand for new ratings products and services. Growth in MA is likely to be driven by deeper and broader penetration of its customer
base as regulatory compliance and other analytical requirements drive demand for MA’s products and expertise. Moreover, pricing opportunities aligned with customer value creation and advances in information technology present growth
opportunities for Moody’s.

mid-1990’s

The pace of change in technology and communication over the past two decades makes information about investment alternatives widely available throughout the world and
facilitates issuers’ ability to place securities outside their national markets and similarly investors’ ability to obtain information about securities issued outside their national markets. Technology also allows issuers and investors the
ability to more readily obtain information about new financing techniques and new types of securities that they may wish to purchase or sell, which in the absence of the appropriate technology might not be readily or easily obtainable. This
availability of information promotes the ongoing integration and expansion of financial markets worldwide, giving issuers and investors access to a wider range of both established and newer capital markets. As technology provides broader access to
worldwide markets, it also results in a greater need for credible, globally comparable opinions about credit risk, data, analytics and related services. Additionally, information technology also provides opportunities to further build a global
platform to support Moody’s continued expansion in developing markets.

An ongoing trend in the world’s capital markets is the disintermediation of
financial systems. Issuers increasingly raise capital in the global public capital markets, in addition to, or in substitution for, traditional financial intermediaries. Moreover, financial intermediaries have sold assets in the global public
capital markets, in addition to, or instead of, retaining those assets. Moody’s believes that issuer use of global debt capital markets offer advantages in capacity and efficiency compared to traditional banking systems and that the trend of
increased disintermediation will continue. Further, disintermediation has continued because of the ongoing low interest rate environment and bank deleveraging, which has encouraged a number of corporations and other entities to seek alternative
funding in the bond markets.



12MOODY’S2017 10-K




Moody’s also observes disintermediation in key emerging markets where economic growth may outpace internal banking
system capacity. Thus, disintermediation is expected to continue over the longer-term, with Moody’s targeting investment and resources to those markets where disintermediation and bond issuance is expected to remain robust.

Legislative bodies and regulators in the U.S., Europe and other jurisdictions
continue to conduct regulatory reviews of CRAs, which may result in, for example, an increased number of competitors, changes to the business model or restrictions on certain business activities of MIS, removal of references to ratings in certain
regulations, or increased costs of doing business for MIS. Therefore, in order to broaden the potential for expansion ofnon-ratingsservices, Moody’s reorganized in January 2008 into two distinct
businesses: MIS, consisting primarily of the ratings business, and MA, which conducts activities including the sale of credit research produced by MIS and the production and sale of other economic and credit-related products and services. The
reorganization broadened the opportunities for expansion by MA into activities that may have otherwise been restricted for MIS, due to the potential for conflicts of interest with the ratings business. At present, Moody’s is unable to assess
the nature and effect that any regulatory changes may have on future growth opportunities.

Moody’s operations are subject to various risks, as more fully
described in Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors,” inherent in conducting business on a global basis. Such risks include currency fluctuations and possible nationalization, expropriation, exchange and price controls, changes in the
availability of data from public sector sources, limits on providing information across borders and other restrictive governmental actions.

COMPETITION

MIS competes with other CRAs and with
investment banks and brokerage firms that offer credit opinions and research. Many users of MIS’s ratings also havein-housecredit research capabilities. MIS’s largest competitor in the global
credit rating business is S&P Global Ratings (S&P), a division of S&P Global. There are some rating markets, based on industry, geography and/or instrument type, in which Moody’s has made investments and obtained market positions
superior to S&P, while in other markets, the reverse is true.

In addition to S&P, MIS’s competitors include Fitch Ratings, Dominion Bond Rating Service
(DBRS), A.M. Best Company, Japan Credit Rating Agency Ltd., Kroll Bond Rating Agency Inc., Morningstar Inc. and Egan-Jones Ratings Company. In Europe, there are approximately 30 companies currently registered with ESMA, which include both purely
domestic European CRAs and International CRAs such as S&P, Fitch and DBRS. There are additional competitors in other regions and countries, for example, in China, where Moody’s participates through a joint venture. These competitors include
China Lianhe Credit Rating Co Ltd., Shanghai Brilliance Credit Rating & Investors Service Co Ltd., Dagong Global Credit Rating Co Ltd. and Pengyuan Credit Rating Co Ltd.

MA competes broadly in the financial information industry against diversified competitors such as Thomson Reuters, Bloomberg, S&P Global Market Intelligence, Fitch
Solutions, Dun & Bradstreet, IBM, Wolters Kluwer, Fidelity National Information Services, SAS, Fiserv, MSCI and IHS Markit among others. MA’s main competitors within RD&A include S&P Global Market Intelligence, CreditSights,
Thomson Reuters, Intex, IHS Markit, BlackRock Solutions, FactSet and other providers of fixed income analytics, valuations, economic data and research. In ERS, MA faces competition from both large software providers such as IBM Algorithmics,
Fidelity National Information Services, SAS, Oracle, Misys, Oliver Wyman, Verisk Analytics and various other vendors andin-housesolutions. Within Professional Services, MA competes with a host of financial
training and education firms such as Omega Performance and providers of offshore research and analytical services such as Evalueserve and CRISIL Global Research & Analytics.

MOODY’S STRATEGY

Moody’s corporate
strategy is to be the world’s most respected authority serving financial risk-sensitive markets. The key aspects to implement this strategy are to:



»Defend and enhance the core ratings and research business of MIS;



MOODY’S2017 10-K13




»Build MA’s position as a leading provider of data, analytics and risk management solutions to financial institutions, corporations, and governmental authorities; and



»Invest in strategic growth opportunities.

Moody’s will make investments to defend and enhance its core businesses in
an attempt to position the Company to fully capture market opportunities resulting from global debt capital market expansion and increased business investment spending. Moody’s will also make strategic investments to achieve scale in attractive
financial information markets, move into attractive product and service adjacencies where the Company can leverage its brand, extend its thought leadership and expand its geographic presence in high growth emerging markets.

To broaden the Company’s potential, MA provides a wide range of products and services to enable financial institutions, corporations and governmental authorities to
better manage risk. As such, MA adds to the Company’s value proposition in three ways. First, MA’s subscription businesses provide a significant base of recurring revenue to offset cyclicality in ratings issuance volumes that may result in
volatility in MIS’s revenues. Second, MA products and services, such as financial training and professional services on research and risk management best practices, provide opportunities for entry into emerging markets before banking systems
and debt capital markets fully develop and thus present long-term growth opportunities for the ratings business. Finally, MA’s integrated risk management software platform embeds Moody’s solutions deep into the technology infrastructure of
banks and insurance companies worldwide.

Moody’s invests in initiatives to implement the Company’s strategy, including internally led organic development
and targeted acquisitions. Example initiatives include:



»Enhancements to ratings quality and product extensions;



»Investments that extend ownership and participation in joint ventures and strategic alliances;



»New products, services, content (e.g., non-credit risk assessments such as ESG and cybersecurity risk), and technology capabilities to meet customer demands;



»Selective bolt-on acquisitions that accelerate the ability to scale and grow Moody’s businesses; and



»Expansion in emerging markets.

€



Regulation

MIS and many of the securities that it rates are subject to extensive regulation in both the U.S. and in other countries (including by state and local authorities). Thus,
existing and proposed laws and regulations can impact the Company’s operations and the markets for securities that it rates. Additional laws and regulations have been adopted but not yet implemented or have been proposed or are being
considered. Each of the existing, adopted, proposed and potential laws and regulations can increase the costs and legal risk associated with the issuance of credit ratings and may negatively impact Moody’s operations or profitability, the
Company’s ability to compete, or result in changes in the demand for credit ratings, in the manner in which ratings are utilized and in the manner in which Moody’s operates.

The regulatory landscape has changed rapidly in recent years, and continues to evolve. In the EU, the CRA industry is registered and supervised through apan-Europeanregulatory framework. The European Securities and Markets Authority has direct supervisory responsibility for the registered CRA industry throughout the EU. MIS is a registered entity and is subject to
formal regulation and periodic inspection. Applicable rules include procedural requirements with respect to ratings of sovereign issuers, liability for intentional or grossly negligent failure to abide by applicable regulations, mandatory rotation
requirements of CRAs hired by issuers of securities for



14MOODY’S2017 10-K




ratings of resecuritizations, restrictions on CRAs or their shareholders if certain ownership thresholds are crossed, reporting requirements to ESMA regarding fees, and additional procedural and
substantive requirements on the pricing of services. In 2016, the Commission published a report concluding that no new European legislation was needed for the industry at that time, but that it would continue to monitor the credit rating industry
and analyze approaches that may strengthen existing regulation. In addition, from time to time, ESMA publishes interpretive guidance or thematic reports regarding various aspects of the regulation. Over the past quarter, two such reports have been
published. The first report provides further guidance from ESMA regarding the endorsement mechanism that CRAs will need to employ for those ratings that are produced outside of the EU but are used inside the EU byEU-regulatedentities. The second report discusses ESMA’s observations on CRAs fee practices.

Separately, on
June 23, 2016, the U.K. voted through a referendum to exit the EU. The UK officially launched the exit process by submitting its Article 50 letter to the EU, informing it of the UK’s intention to exit. The submission of this letter
“starts the clock” on the negotiation of the terms of exit which will take up to two years. The specifics regarding the “new relationship” or any transitional arrangements (bridging the UK’s exit from itsre-engagementwith the EU) will only begin once the broad terms of exit have been agreed upon by all parties.

The longer-term
impacts of the decision to leave the EU on the overall regulatory framework for the U.K. will depend, in part, on the relationship that the U.K. negotiates with the EU in the future. In the interim, however, the U.K.’s markets regulator (the
Financial Conduct Authority) has said that all EU financial regulations will stay in place and that firms must continue to abide by their existing obligations. As a consequence, at this point in time, there is no change to the regulatory framework
under which MIS operates and ESMA remains MIS’s regulator both in the EU and in the U.K.

In the U.S., CRAs are subject to extensive regulation primarily
pursuant to the Reform Act and the Financial Reform Act. The SEC is required by these legislative acts to publish two annual reports to Congress on NRSROs. The Financial Reform Act requires the SEC to examine each NRSRO once a year and issue an
annual report summarizing the examination findings, among other requirements. The annual report required by the Reform Act details the SEC’s views on the state of competition, transparency and conflicts of interests among NRSROs, among other
requirements. The SEC voted in August 2014 to adopt its final rules for NRSROs as required by the Financial Reform Act. The Company has made and continues to make substantial IT and other investments, and has implemented the relevant compliance
obligations.

In light of the regulations that have gone into effect in both the EU and the U.S. (as well as many other countries), periodically and as a matter of
course pursuant to their enabling legislation these regulatory authorities have and will continue to publish reports that describe their oversight activities over the industry. In addition, other legislation and/or interpretation of existing
regulation relating to credit rating and research services is being considered by local, national and multinational bodies and this type of activity is likely to continue in the future. Finally, in certain countries, governments may provide
financial or other support to locally-based rating agencies. For example, governments may from time to time establish official rating agencies or credit ratings criteria or procedures for evaluating local issuers. If enacted, any such legislation
and regulation could change the competitive landscape in which MIS operates. The legal status of rating agencies has been addressed by courts in various decisions and is likely to be considered and addressed in legal proceedings from time to time in
the future. Management of the Company cannot predict whether these or any other proposals will be enacted, the outcome of any pending or possible future legal proceedings, or regulatory or legislative actions, or the ultimate impact of any such
matters on the competitive position, financial position or results of operations of Moody’s.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

Moody’s and its
affiliates own and control a variety of intellectual property, including but not limited to proprietary information, trademarks, research, software tools and applications, models and methodologies, databases, domain names, and other proprietary
materials that, in the aggregate, are of material importance to Moody’s business. Management of Moody’s believes that each of the trademarks and related corporate names, marks and logos containing the term “Moody’s” are of
material importance to the Company.

The Company, primarily through MA (including its Bureau van Dijk business), licenses certain of its databases, software
applications, credit risk models, training courses in credit risk and capital markets, research and other publications and services that contain intellectual property to its customers. These licenses are provided pursuant to standardfee-bearingagreements containing customary restrictions and intellectual property protections.

In addition, Moody’s licenses
certain technology, data and other intellectual property rights owned and controlled by others. Specifically, Moody’s licenses financial information (such as market and index data, financial statement data, third party research, default data,
and security identifiers) as well as software development tools and libraries. In addition, the Company’s Bureau van Dijk business obtains from third party information providers certain financial, credit risk, compliance, management, ownership
and other data on companies worldwide, which Bureau van Dijk distributes through its company information products. The Company obtains such technology and intellectual property rights from generally available commercial sources. The Company also
utilizes generally available open source software and libraries for internal use and also, subject to appropriately permissive open source licenses, to carry out rou-



MOODY’S2017 10-K15




tine functions in certain of the Company’s software products. Most of such technology and intellectual property is available from a variety of sources. Although certain financial information
(particularly security identifiers, certain pricing or index data, and certain company financial data in selected geographic markets sourced by Bureau van Dijk) is available only from a limited number of sources, Moody’s does not believe it is
dependent on any one data source for a material aspect of its business.

The Company considers its Intellectual Property to be proprietary, and Moody’s relies on
a combination of copyright, trademark, trade secret, patent,non-disclosureand other contractual safeguards for protection. Moody’s also pursues instances of third-party infringement of its Intellectual
Property in order to protect the Company’s rights. The Company owns two patents. None of the Intellectual Property is subject to a specific expiration date, except to the extent that the patents and the copyright in items that the Company
authors (such as credit reports, research, software, and other written opinions) expire pursuant to relevant law.

The names of Moody’s products and services
referred to herein are trademarks, service marks or registered trademarks or service marks owned by or licensed to Moody’s or one or more of its subsidiaries.

EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 2017 the number
of full-time equivalent employees of Moody’s was approximately 12,000.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

Moody’s investor relations Internet website is http://ir.moodys.com/. Under the “SEC Filings” tab at this website, the Company makes available free of
charge its annual reports on Form10-K,quarterly reports on Form10-Q,current reports on Form8-Kand amendments to those
reports as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with, or furnished to, the SEC.

The SEC maintains an internet site that contains annual, quarterly and
current reports, proxy and other information statements that the Company files electronically with the SEC. The SEC’s internet site is http://www.sec.gov/.

Executive Officers of the Registrant





Name, Age and PositionBiographical Data



Mark E. Almeida, 58President, Moody’s AnalyticsMr. Almeida has served as President of Moody’s Analytics since January 2008. Prior to this position, Mr. Almeida was Senior Vice President of Moody’s Corporation from August
2007 to January 2008, Senior Managing Director of the Investor Services Group (ISG) at Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. from December 2004 to January 2008 and was Group Managing Director of ISG from June 2000 to December 2004. Mr. Almeida
joined Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. in April 1988 and has held a variety of positions with the company in both the U.S. and overseas.



Richard Cantor, 60Chief Risk OfficerMr. Cantor has served as Chief Risk Officer of Moody’s Corporation since December 2008 and as Chief Credit Officer of Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. since November 2008. From July
2008 to November 2008, Mr. Cantor served as Acting Chief Credit Officer. Prior thereto, Mr. Cantor was Managing Director of Moody’s Credit Policy Research Group from June 2001 to July 2008, after serving as Senior Vice President in
the Financial Guarantors Rating Group. Mr. Cantor joined Moody’s in 1997 from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, where he served as Assistant Vice President in the Research Group and was Staff Director at the Discount Window. Prior to
the Federal Reserve, Mr. Cantor taught Economics at UCLA and Ohio State and has taught on an adjunct basis at the business schools of Columbia University and New York University.



Michael S. Crimmins, 47Senior Vice President andCorporate ControllerMr. Crimmins has served as the Company’s Senior-Vice President—Corporate Controller since August 2016. Mr. Crimmins joined Moody’s in November 2004 as Assistant
Controller. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Crimmins worked at Deloitte where his last position held was a Senior Manager in their Assurance and Advisory Practice. He also served at PricewaterhouseCoopers as a
consultant.



16MOODY’S2017 10-K






Name, Age and PositionBiographical Data



Robert Fauber, 47President, Moody’s Investors
ServiceMr. Fauber has served as President—Moody’s Investors Service since June 1, 2016. He served as Senior Vice President—Corporate & Commercial Development of Moody’s Corporation from
April 2014 to May 31, 2016 and was Head of the MIS Commercial Group from January 2013 to May 31, 2016. From April 2009 through April 2014, he served as Senior Vice President –Corporate Development of Moody’s
Corporation. Mr. Fauber served as Vice President-Corporate Development from September 2005 to April 2009. Prior to joining Moody’s, Mr. Fauber served in several roles at Citigroup and its investment banking subsidiary Salomon Smith
Barney from 1999 to 2005. From 1992-1996, Mr. Fauber worked at NationsBank (now Bank of America) in the middle market commercial banking group.



John J. Goggins, 57Executive Vice President and General
CounselMr. Goggins has served as the Company’s Executive Vice President and General Counsel since April 2011 and the Company’s Senior Vice President and General Counsel from October 2000 until April 2011.
Mr. Goggins joined Moody’s Investors Service in February 1999 as Vice President and Associate General Counsel.



Linda S. Huber, 59Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial OfficerMs. Huber has served as the Company’s Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since May 2005. Prior to that, she served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer at U.S. Trust Company, a
subsidiary of Charles Schwab & Company, Inc., from 2003 to 2005. Prior to U.S. Trust, she was Managing Director at Freeman & Co. from 1998 through 2002. She served PepsiCo as Vice President of Corporate Strategy and Development
from 1997 until 1998 and as Vice President and Assistant Treasurer from 1994 until 1997. She served as Vice President in the Energy Investment Banking Group at Bankers Trust Company from 1991 until 1994 and as an Associate in the Energy Group at
First Boston Corporation from 1986 through 1990. She also held the rank of Captain in the U.S. Army where she served from 1980 to 1984.



Melanie Hughes, 55Senior Vice President andChief Human Resources OfficerMs. Hughes has served as Senior Vice President—Chief Human Resources Officer since September 2017. Prior to joining the Company, Ms. Hughes was Chief Human Resource Officer & Executive Vice President
Human Resources at American Eagle Outfitters from July 2016 to September 2017 and served as Executive Vice President, Human Resources at Tribune Media from May 2013 to June 2016. She has held several senior management roles for many different
companies such as Coach, Gilt Group, DoubleClick and UBS Warburg.



Raymond W. McDaniel, Jr., 60President
andChief Executive OfficerMr. McDaniel has served as the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company since April 2012, and served as the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer from April 2005 until April 2012.
He currently serves on the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors. Mr. McDaniel served as the Company’s President from October 2004 until April 2005 and the Company’s Chief Operating Officer from January 2004 until April 2005.
He has served as Chief Executive Officer of Moody’s Investors Service since October 2007. He held the additional titles of President from November 2001 to August 2007 and December 2008 to November 2010 and Chairman from October 2007 until June
2015. Mr. McDaniel served as the Company’s Executive Vice President from April 2003 to January 2004, and as Senior Vice President, Global Ratings and Research from November 2000 until April 2003. He served as Senior Managing Director,
Global Ratings and Research of Moody’s Investors Service from November 2000 until November 2001 and as Managing Director, International from 1996 to November 2000. Mr. McDaniel currently is a Director of John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
and is a member of the Board of Trustees of Muhlenberg College.



Blair L. Worrall, 61Senior Vice President,Ratings Delivery and DataMr. Worrall has served as Senior Vice President—Ratings Delivery and Data since February 2013 and Head of MIS Operations, Data & Controls since February 2016. He served as Head of MIS Ratings Transaction
Services from January 2014 to February 2016. Mr. Worrall served as Senior Vice President—Internal Audit from April 2011 to February 2013 and as Vice President—Internal Audit from September 2007 to April 2011. He served as the
Controller for MIS from November 2004 until September 2007. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Worrall was Vice President, Accounting for RCN Corporation from 2002 to 2004 and held various finance positions at Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
from 1979 to 2001.



MOODY’S2017 10-K17




