ITEM1. BUSINESS

BACKGROUND

As used in this report, except where the context indicates otherwise, the terms “Moody’s” or the “Company” refer to Moody’s Corporation, a
Delaware corporation, and its subsidiaries. The Company’s executive offices are located at 7 World Trade Center at 250 Greenwich Street, New York, NY 10007 and its telephone number is(212) 553-0300.

THE COMPANY

Moody’s is a provider of
(i) credit ratings; (ii) credit, capital markets and economic research, data and analytical tools; (iii) software solutions that support financial risk management activities; (iv) quantitatively derived credit scores;
(v) learning solutions and certification services; (vi) offshore financial research and analytical services; and (vii) company information and business intelligence products. Moody’s reports in two reportable segments: MIS and
MA. Financial information and operating results of these segments, including revenue, expenses and operating income, are included in Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements of this annual report, and are herein incorporated by reference.

MIS publishes credit ratings on a wide range of debt obligations and the entities that issue such obligations in markets worldwide, including various corporate and
governmental obligations, structured finance securities and commercial paper programs. Ratings revenue is derived from the originators and issuers of such transactions who use MIS ratings to support the distribution of their debt issues to
investors. MIS provides ratings in more than 130 countries. Ratings are disseminated via press releases to the public through a variety of print and electronic media, including the internet and real-time information systems widely used by securities
traders and investors. As of December 31, 2018, MIS had the following ratings relationships:



»Approximately 4,800 ratednon-financialcorporate issuers;



»Approximately 4,100 rated financial institutions issuers;



»Approximately 17,600 rated public finance issuers (including sovereign,sub-sovereignand supranational issuers);



»Approximately 9,600 rated structured finance transactions; and



»Approximately 1,000 rated infrastructure and project finance issuers.

Additionally, MIS earns revenue from certainnon-ratings-relatedoperations, which primarily consist of financial instruments
pricing services in the Asia-Pacific region as well as revenue from ICRAnon-ratingoperations. The revenue from these operations is included in the MIS Other LOB and is not material to the results of the MIS
segment.

The MA segment develops a wide range of products and services that support financial analysis and risk management activities of institutional participants
in global financial markets. Within its RD&A business, MA offers subscription based research, data and analytical products, including credit ratings produced by MIS, credit research, quantitative credit scores and other analytical tools,
economic research and forecasts, business intelligence and company information products, and commercial real estate data and analytical tools. Within its ERS business, MA provides software solutions as well as related risk management services. The
PS business provides offshore analytical and research services along with learning solutions and certification programs. MA customers represent more than 11,100 institutions worldwide operating in over 150 countries. During 2018, Moody’s
research website was accessed by over 281,000 individuals including 38,000 customer users.

PROSPECTS FOR GROWTH

Over recent decades, global fixed-income markets have grown significantly both in terms of the amount and types of securities or other obligations outstanding. Beginning
inmid-2007,there was a severe market disruption and associated financial crisis both in the devel-



10MOODY’S2018 10-K




oped and emerging markets resulting in a global decline in debt issuance activity for some significant asset classes and weak economic performance in advanced economies. Since this financial
crisis, many markets and economies have recovered and Moody’s believes the overall long-term outlook remains favorable for continued growth of the global fixed-income market and related financial information market, which includes information
such as credit opinions, research, data, analytics, risk management tools and related services.

Moody’s growth is influenced by a number of trends that impact
financial information markets including:



»Health of the world’s major economies;



»Debt capital markets activity;



»Disintermediation of credit markets;



»Fiscal and monetary policy of governments; and



»Business investment spending, including mergers and acquisitions.

In an environment of increasing financial complexity and heightened attention to credit analysis and risk management, Moody’s is well positioned to benefit from
continued growth in global fixed-income market activity and a more widespread use of credit ratings, research and related analytical products. Moody’s expects that these developments will support continued long-term demand for high quality,
independent credit opinions, research, data, analytics, risk management tools and related services.

Strong secular trends should continue to provide long-term growth
opportunities. For MIS, key growth drivers include debt market issuance driven by global GDP growth, continued disintermediation of fixed-income markets in both developed and emerging economies driving issuance and demand for new ratings products
and services. Growth in MA is likely to be driven by deeper and broader penetration of the customer base as data demands, regulatory compliance and other analytical requirements drive demand for MA’s products and expertise. Moreover, pricing
opportunities aligned with customer value creation and advances in information technology present growth opportunities for Moody’s.

mid-1990’s

The pace of change in technology and communication over the past two decades makes
information about investment alternatives widely available throughout the world and facilitates issuers’ ability to place securities outside their national markets and similarly investors’ ability to obtain information about securities
issued outside their national markets. Technology also allows issuers and investors the ability to more readily obtain information about new financing techniques and new types of securities that they may wish to purchase or sell, which in the
absence of the appropriate technology might not be readily or easily obtainable. This availability of information promotes the ongoing integration and expansion of financial markets worldwide, giving issuers and investors access to a wider range of
both established and newer capital markets. As technology provides broader access to worldwide markets, it also results in a greater need for credible, globally comparable opinions about credit risk, data, analytics and related services.
Additionally, information technology also provides opportunities to further build a global platform to support Moody’s continued expansion in developing markets.

An ongoing trend in the world’s capital markets is the disintermediation of financial systems. Issuers increasingly raise capital in the global public capital
markets, in addition to, or in substitution for, traditional financial intermediaries. Moreover, financial intermediaries have sold assets in the global public capital markets, in addition to, or instead of, retaining those assets. Moody’s
believes that issuer use of global debt capital markets offer advantages in capacity and efficiency compared to traditional banking systems and that the trend of increased disintermediation will continue. Further, disintermediation has continued
because of the historically low interest rate environment and bank deleveraging, which has encouraged a number of corporations and other entities to seek alternative funding in the bond markets.



MOODY’S2018 10-K11




Moody’s also observes disintermediation in key emerging markets where economic growth may outpace internal banking
system capacity. Thus, disintermediation is expected to continue over the longer-term, with Moody’s targeting investment and resources to those markets where disintermediation and bond issuance is expected to remain robust.

software-as-a-service).

Legislative bodies and regulators in the U.S., Europe and other jurisdictions continue to conduct regulatory reviews of CRAs, which may result in, for example, an
increased number of competitors, changes to the business model or restrictions on certain business activities of MIS, removal of references to ratings in certain regulations, or increased costs of doing business for MIS. At present, Moody’s is
unable to assess the nature and effect that any regulatory changes may have on future growth opportunities.

Moody’s operations are subject to various risks, as
more fully described in Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors,” inherent in conducting business on a global basis. Such risks include currency fluctuations and possible nationalization, expropriation, exchange and price controls, changes in
the availability of data from public sector sources, limits on providing information across borders and other restrictive governmental actions.

COMPETITION

MIS competes with other CRAs and with
investment banks and brokerage firms that offer credit opinions and research. Many users of MIS’s ratings also havein-housecredit research capabilities. MIS’s largest competitor in the global
credit rating business is S&P Global Ratings (S&P), a division of S&P Global. There are some rating markets, based on industry, geography and/or instrument type, in which Moody’s has made investments and obtained market positions
superior to S&P, while in other markets, the reverse is true.

In addition to S&P, MIS’s competitors in the U.S. include Fitch Ratings, Dominion Bond
Rating Service (DBRS), A.M. Best Company, Kroll Bond Rating Agency Inc., and Morningstar Inc. In Europe, there are approximately 45 companies currently registered with ESMA, which include both purely domestic European CRAs and International CRAs
such as S&P, Fitch and DBRS. There are additional competitors in other regions and countries, some of which are global entities and compete across regions and asset classes, while others focus on particular asset classes and regions.

MA competes broadly in the financial information industry against diversified competitors such as Refinitiv, Bloomberg, S&P Global Market Intelligence, Fitch
Solutions, D&B, IBM, Wolters Kluwer, Fidelity National Information Services, SAS, Fiserv, MSCI and IHS Markit among others. MA’s main competitors within RD&A include S&P Global Market Intelligence, CreditSights, Refinitiv, Intex,
IHS Markit, BlackRock Solutions, FactSet and other providers of fixed income analytics, valuations, economic data and research. In ERS, MA faces competition from both large software providers such as IBM Algorithmics, Fidelity National Information
Services, SAS, Oracle, Misys, Oliver Wyman, Verisk Analytics and various other vendors andin-housesolutions. Within Professional Services, MA competes with a host of financial training and education firms
and providers of offshore research and analytical services such as Evalueserve and CRISIL Global Research & Analytics.

MOODY’S STRATEGY

Moody’s corporate mission
is to be the world’s most respected authority serving financial risk-sensitive markets. The key aspects to implement this strategy are to:



»Defend and enhance the core ratings and research business of MIS;



12MOODY’S2018 10-K




»Build MA’s position as a leading provider of data, analytics and risk management solutions to financial institutions,
corporations, and governmental authorities; and



»Invest in strategic growth opportunities.

Moody’s will make investments to defend and enhance its core businesses in an attempt to position the Company to fully capture market opportunities resulting from
global debt capital market expansion and increased business investment spending. Moody’s will also make strategic investments to achieve scale in attractive financial information markets, move into attractive product and service adjacencies
where the Company can leverage its brand, extend its thought leadership and expand its geographic presence in high growth emerging markets.

To broaden the
Company’s potential, MA provides a wide range of products and services to enable financial institutions, corporations and governmental authorities to better manage risk. As such, MA adds to the Company’s value proposition in three ways.
First, MA’s subscription businesses provide a significant base of recurring revenue to offset cyclicality in ratings issuance volumes that may result in volatility in MIS’s revenues. Second, MA products and services, such as financial
training and professional services on research and risk management best practices, provide opportunities for entry into emerging markets before banking systems and debt capital markets fully develop and thus present long-term growth opportunities
for the ratings business. Finally, MA’s integrated risk management software platform embeds Moody’s solutions deep into the technology infrastructure of banks and insurance companies worldwide.

Moody’s invests in initiatives to implement the Company’s strategy, including internally led organic development and targeted acquisitions. Example initiatives
include:



»Enhancements to ratings quality and product extensions;



»Investments that extend ownership and participation in joint ventures and strategic alliances;



»New products, services, content (e.g.,non-creditrisk assessments such as ESG and
cybersecurity risk), and technology capabilities to meet customer demands;



»Selectivebolt-onacquisitions that accelerate the ability to scale and grow
Moody’s businesses; and



»Expansion in emerging markets.

AI-based

start-ups



REGULATION

MIS and many of the securities that it rates are subject to extensive regulation in both the U.S. and in other countries (including by state and local authorities). Thus,
existing and proposed laws and regulations can impact the Company’s operations and the markets for securities that it rates. Additional laws and regulations have been adopted but not yet implemented or have been proposed or are being
considered. Each of the existing, adopted, proposed and potential laws and regulations can increase the costs and legal risk associated with the issuance of credit ratings and may negatively impact Moody’s operations or profitability, the
Company’s ability to compete, or result in changes in the demand for credit ratings, in the manner in which ratings are utilized and in the manner in which Moody’s operates.

The regulatory landscape has changed rapidly in recent years, and continues to evolve. In the EU, the CRA industry is registered and supervised througha pan-European regulatoryframework. The European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) has direct supervisory responsibility for the registered CRA industry throughout the EU. MIS is a registered entity
and is subject to formal regulation and periodic inspection. Applicable rules include procedural requirements with respect to ratings of sovereign issuers, liability for intentional



MOODY’S2018 10-K13




by EU-regulated entities.

to non-EU jurisdictions

Separately, on June 23, 2016, the U.K. voted through a referendum to exit the EU. The U.K. officially launched the exit process by submitting its Article 50 letter
to the EU, informing it of the U.K.’s intention to exit. The submission of this letter started the clock on the negotiation of the terms of exit, which originally was expected to take up to two years, but may take longer.

The longer-term impacts of the decision to leave the EU on the overall regulatory framework for the U.K. will depend, in part, on the relationship that the U.K.
negotiates with the EU in the future. In the interim, however, the U.K.’s markets regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) has indicated that all EU financial regulations will stay in place and that firms must continue to abide by their
existing obligations. As a consequence, at this point in time, there is no change to the regulatory framework under which MIS operates and ESMA remains MIS’s regulator both in the EU and in the U.K.

In the U.S., CRAs are subject to extensive regulation primarily pursuant to the Reform Act and the Financial Reform Act. The SEC is required by these legislative acts to
publish two annual reports to Congress on NRSROs. The Financial Reform Act requires the SEC to examine each NRSRO once a year and issue an annual report summarizing the examination findings, among other requirements. The annual report required by
the Reform Act details the SEC’s views on the state of competition, transparency and conflicts of interests among NRSROs, among other requirements. The SEC voted in August 2014 to adopt its final rules for NRSROs as required by the Financial
Reform Act. The Company has made and continues to make substantial IT and other investments, and has implemented the relevant compliance obligations.

In light of the
regulations that have gone into effect in both the EU and the U.S. (as well as many other countries), periodically and as a matter of course pursuant to their enabling legislation, these regulatory authorities have and will continue to publish
reports that describe their oversight activities over the industry. In addition, other legislation and/or interpretation of existing regulation relating to credit rating and research services is being considered by local, national and multinational
bodies and this type of activity is likely to continue in the future. Finally, in certain countries, governments may provide financial or other support to locally-based rating agencies. For example, governments may from time to time establish
official rating agencies or credit ratings criteria or procedures for evaluating local issuers. If enacted, any such legislation and regulation could change the competitive landscape in which MIS operates. The legal status of rating agencies has
been addressed by courts in various decisions and is likely to be considered and addressed in legal proceedings from time to time in the future. Management of the Company cannot predict whether these or any other proposals will be enacted, the
outcome of any pending or possible future legal proceedings, or regulatory or legislative actions, or the ultimate impact of any such matters on the competitive position, financial position or results of operations of Moody’s.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

Moody’s and
its affiliates own and control a variety of intellectual property, including but not limited to proprietary information, trademarks, research, software tools and applications, models and methodologies, databases, domain names, and other proprietary
materials that, in the aggregate, are of material importance to Moody’s business. Management of Moody’s believes that each of the trademarks and related corporate names, marks and logos containing the term “Moody’s” are of
material importance to the Company.

The Company, primarily through MA (including its Bureau van Dijk business), licenses certain of its databases, software
applications, credit risk models, training courses in credit risk and capital markets, research and other publications and services that contain intellectual property to its customers. These licenses are provided pursuant to standardfee-bearingagreements containing customary restrictions and intellectual property protections.

In addition, Moody’s licenses
from third parties certain technology, data and other intellectual property rights. Specifically, Moody’s obtains licenses from third parties to use financial information (such as market and index data, financial statement data, research data,



14MOODY’S2018 10-K




default data, and security identifiers) as well as software development tools and libraries. In addition, the Company’s Bureau van Dijk business obtains from third party information
providers certain financial, credit risk, compliance, management, ownership and other data on companies worldwide, which Bureau van Dijk distributes through its company information products. The Company obtains such technology and intellectual
property rights from generally available commercial sources. The Company also utilizes generally available open source software and libraries for internal use and also, subject to appropriately permissive open source licenses, to carry out routine
functions in certain of the Company’s software products. Most of such technology and intellectual property is available from a variety of sources. Although certain financial information (particularly security identifiers, certain pricing or
index data, and certain company financial data in selected geographic markets sourced by Bureau van Dijk) is available from a limited number of sources, Moody’s does not believe it is dependent on any one data source for a material aspect of
its business.

The names of Moody’s products and services referred to herein are trademarks, service marks or registered trademarks or service marks owned by or
licensed to Moody’s or one or more of its subsidiaries. The Company owns two patents. None of the Intellectual Property is subject to a specific expiration date, except to the extent that the patents and the copyright in items that the Company
authors (such as credit reports, research, software, and other written opinions) expire pursuant to relevant law.

The Company considers its Intellectual Property to
be proprietary, and Moody’s relies on a combination of copyright, trademark, trade secret, patent,non-disclosureand other contractual safeguards for protection. Moody’s also pursues instances of
third-party infringement of its Intellectual Property in order to protect the Company’s rights.

EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 2018 the number
of full-time equivalent employees of Moody’s was approximately 13,000.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

Moody’s investor relations internet website is http://ir.moodys.com/. Under the “SEC Filings” tab at this website, the Company makes available free of
charge its annual reports on Form10-K,quarterly reports on Form10-Q,current reports on Form8-Kand amendments to those
reports as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with, or furnished to, the SEC.

The SEC maintains an internet site that contains annual, quarterly and
current reports, proxy and other information statements that the Company files electronically with the SEC. The SEC’s internet site is http://www.sec.gov/.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT



Name, Age and PositionBiographical DataMark E. Almeida, 59President, Moody’s AnalyticsMr. Almeida has served as President of Moody’s Analytics since January 2008. Prior to this position, Mr. Almeida was Senior Vice President of Moody’s Corporation from August
2007 to January 2008, Senior Managing Director of the Investor Services Group (ISG) at Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. from December 2004 to January 2008 and was Group Managing Director of ISG from June 2000 to December 2004. Mr. Almeida
joined Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. in April 1988 and has held a variety of positions with the company in both the U.S. and overseas.Richard Cantor, 61Chief Risk OfficerMr. Cantor has served as the Company’s Chief Risk Officer since December 2008 and as Chief Credit Officer of Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. since November 2008. From July 2008 to
November 2008, Mr. Cantor served as Acting Chief Credit Officer. Prior thereto, Mr. Cantor was Managing Director of Moody’s Credit Policy Research Group from June 2001 to July 2008, after serving as Senior Vice President in the
Financial Guarantors Rating Group. Mr. Cantor joined Moody’s in 1997 from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, where he served as Assistant Vice President in the Research Group and was Staff Director at the Discount Window. Prior to the
Federal Reserve, Mr. Cantor taught Economics at UCLA and Ohio State and has taught on an adjunct basis at the business schools of Columbia University and New York University.



MOODY’S2018 10-K15






Name, Age and PositionBiographical Data



Robert Fauber, 48President, Moody’s Investors
ServiceMr. Fauber has served as President—Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. since June 1, 2016. He served as Senior Vice President—Corporate & Commercial Development of Moody’s Corporation from
April 2014 to May 31, 2016 and was Head of the MIS Commercial Group from January 2013 to May 31, 2016. From April 2009 through April 2014, he served as Senior Vice President—Corporate Development of Moody’s Corporation.
Mr. Fauber served as Vice President—Corporate Development from September 2005 to April 2009. Prior to joining Moody’s, Mr. Fauber served in several roles at Citigroup and its investment banking subsidiary Salomon Smith Barney
from 1999 to 2005. From 1992 to 1996, Mr. Fauber worked at NationsBank (now Bank of America) in the middle market commercial banking group.



John J. Goggins, 58Executive Vice President and General
CounselMr. Goggins has served as the Company’s Executive Vice President and General Counsel since April 2011 and the Company’s Senior Vice President and General Counsel from October 2000 until April 2011.
Mr. Goggins joined Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. in February 1999 as Vice President and Associate General Counsel.



Melanie Hughes, 56Senior Vice President andChief Human
Resources OfficerMs. Hughes has served as the Company’s Senior Vice President—Chief Human Resources Officer since September 2017. Prior to joining the Company, Ms. Hughes was Chief Human Resource Officer and
Executive Vice President, Human Resources at American Eagle Outfitters from July 2016 to September 2017 and served as Executive Vice President, Human Resources at Tribune Media from May 2013 to June 2016. She has held several senior management roles
for many different companies such as Coach, Gilt Group, DoubleClick and UBS Warburg.



Mark Kaye, 39Senior Vice President andChief Financial
OfficerMr. Kaye has served as the Company’s Senior Vice President—Chief Financial Officer since August 2018. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Kaye was Senior Vice President and Head of Financial Planning and
Analysis at Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company (MassMutual) since February 2016, and Chief Financial Officer of MassMutual U.S. since July 2015. Prior to that, Mr. Kaye served as Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President,
Retirement Solutions, at Voya Financial from 2011 to 2015. Mr. Kaye previously held various senior financial and risk reporting positions at ING U.S. and ING Group, and was in the investment banking division of Credit Suisse First
Boston.



Raymond W. McDaniel, Jr., 61President
andChief Executive OfficerMr. McDaniel has served as the Company’s President and Chief Executive Officer since April 2012, and served as the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer from April 2005 until April 2012. He currently serves on the
Executive Committee of the Board of Directors. Mr. McDaniel served as the Company’s President from October 2004 until April 2005 and the Company’s Chief Operating Officer from January 2004 until April 2005. He has served as Chief
Executive Officer of Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. since October 2007. He held the additional titles of President from November 2001 to August 2007 and December 2008 to November 2010 and Chairman from October 2007 until June 2015.
Mr. McDaniel served as the Company’s Executive Vice President from April 2003 to January 2004, and as Senior Vice President, Global Ratings and Research from November 2000 until April 2003. He served as Senior Managing Director, Global
Ratings and Research, of Moody’s Investors Service from November 2000 until November 2001 and as Managing Director, International from 1996 to November 2000. Mr. McDaniel currently is a director of John Wiley & Sons, Inc. and a
member of the Board of Trustees of Muhlenberg College.



Caroline Sullivan, 50Senior Vice President andCorporate ControllerMs. Sullivan has served as the Company’s Senior Vice President—Corporate Controller since December 2018. Prior to joining the Company, Ms. Sullivan served in several roles at Bank of America, where her last
position held was Managing Director and Global Banking Controller. Prior to that role, Ms. Sullivan supported the Global Wealth & Investment Management business from 2015 to 2017 in a variety of positions including Controller and was
Chief Financial Officer for the Latin America region from 2014 to 2015. From 2011 to 2013, she served as the Legal Entity Controller for the bank’s main broker dealer and other Merrill Lynch entities. Ms. Sullivan previously held various
senior positions at several banks and a major accounting firm, and is a member of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants.





16MOODY’S2018 10-K




