Item 1.Business.



General



Becton, Dickinson and Company (also known as “BD”) was
    incorporated under the laws of the State of New Jersey in
    November 1906, as successor to a New York business started in
    1897. BD’s executive offices are located at 1 Becton Drive,
    Franklin Lakes, New Jersey07417-1880,and its telephone number is(201) 847-6800.All references in thisForm 10-Kto “BD” refer to Becton, Dickinson and Company and its
    domestic and foreign subsidiaries, unless otherwise indicated by
    the context.



BD is a global medical technology company engaged principally in
    the development, manufacture and sale of medical devices,
    instrument systems and reagents used by healthcare institutions,
    life science researchers, clinical laboratories, the
    pharmaceutical industry and the general public.



Business
    Segments



BD’s operations consist of three worldwide business
    segments: BD Medical, BD Diagnostics and BD Biosciences.
    Information with respect to BD’s business segments is
    included in Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements
    contained in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary
    Data, and is incorporated herein by reference.



BD
    Medical



BD Medical produces a broad array of medical devices that are
    used in a wide range of healthcare settings. BD Medical’s
    principal product lines include needles, syringes and
    intravenous catheters for medication delivery (including
    safety-engineered and auto-disable devices); prefilled IV
    flush syringes; syringes and pen needles for the self-injection
    of insulin and other drugs used in the treatment of diabetes;
    prefillable drug delivery systems provided to pharmaceutical
    companies and sold to end-users as drug/device combinations;
    regional anesthesia needles and trays; sharps disposal
    containers; and closed-system transfer devices. The primary
    customers served by BD Medical are hospitals and clinics;
    physicians’ office practices; consumers and retail
    pharmacies; governmental and nonprofit public health agencies;
    pharmaceutical companies; and healthcare workers.



BD
    Diagnostics



BD Diagnostics provides products for the safe collection and
    transport of diagnostics specimens, as well as instruments and
    reagent systems to detect a broad range of infectious diseases,
    healthcare-associated infections (“HAIs”) and cancers.
    BD Diagnostics’ principal products include integrated
    systems for specimen collection; safety-engineered blood
    collection products and systems; automated blood culturing
    systems; molecular testing systems for infectious diseases and
    women’s health; microorganism identification and drug
    susceptibility systems; liquid-based cytology systems for
    cervical cancer screening; rapid diagnostic assays; and plated
    media. BD Diagnostics serves hospitals, laboratories and
    clinics; reference laboratories; blood banks; healthcare
    workers; public health agencies; physicians’ office
    practices; and industrial and food microbiology laboratories.



BD
    Biosciences



BD Biosciences produces research and clinical tools that
    facilitate the study of cells, and the components of cells, to
    gain a better understanding of normal and disease processes.
    That information is used to aid the discovery and development of
    new drugs and vaccines, and to improve the diagnosis and
    management of diseases. BD Biosciences’ principal product
    lines include fluorescence-activated cell sorters and analyzers;
    monoclonal antibodies and kits for performing cell analysis;
    reagent systems for life science research; cell imaging systems;
    laboratory products for tissue culture and fluid handling;
    diagnostic assays; and cell culture media supplements for
    biopharmaceutical manufacturing. The primary customers served by
    BD Biosciences





are research and clinical laboratories; academic and government
    institutions; pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies;
    hospitals; and blood banks.



Acquisitions



During the second quarter of 2011, BD acquired 100% of the
    outstanding shares of Accuri Cytometers, Inc, a company that
    develops and manufactures personal flow cytometers for
    researchers. The fair value of consideration transferred totaled
    $205 million, net of cash acquired.



During the fourth quarter of 2011, BD acquired 100% of the
    outstanding shares of Carmel Pharma Inc., a Swedish company that
    manufactures the
    PhaSeal®System, a closed-system drug transfer device for the safe
    handling of hazardous drugs that are packaged in vials. The fair
    value of consideration transferred was $287 million, net of
    cash acquired.



Additional information regarding these acquisitions is contained
    in Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements
    contained in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary
    Data, which is incorporated herein by reference.



International
    Operations



BD’s products are manufactured and sold worldwide. For
    reporting purposes, we organize our operations outside the
    United States as follows: Europe (which includes the Middle East
    and Africa); Japan; Asia Pacific (which includes Australia and
    all of Asia except Japan); Latin America (which includes Mexico
    and Brazil) and Canada. The principal products sold by BD
    outside the United States are needles and syringes; insulin
    syringes and pen needles; diagnostic systems; BD
    Vacutainertmbrand blood collection products;
    BD Hypaktmbrand prefillable syringe systems; infusion therapy products;
    flow cytometry instruments and reagents; and disposable
    laboratory products. BD has manufacturing operations outside the
    United States in Brazil, Canada, China, France, Germany,
    Hungary, India, Ireland, Japan, Mexico, Pakistan, Singapore,
    South Korea, Spain, Sweden and the United Kingdom. Geographic
    information with respect to BD’s operations is included
    under the heading “Geographic Information” in
    Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements included in
    Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, and is
    incorporated herein by reference.



Foreign economic conditions and exchange rate fluctuations have
    caused the profitability related to foreign revenues to
    fluctuate more than the profitability related to domestic
    revenues. BD believes its activities in some countries outside
    the United States involve greater risk than its domestic
    business due to the factors cited herein, as well as the
    economic environment, local commercial and economic policies and
    political uncertainties. See further discussion of this risk in
    Item 1A. Risk Factors.



Distribution



BD’s products are marketed in the United States and
    internationally through independent distribution channels and
    directly to end-users by BD and independent sales
    representatives. No customer accounted for 10% or more of
    revenues in fiscal year 2011. Order backlog is not material to
    BD’s business inasmuch as orders for BD products generally
    are received and filled on a current basis, except for items
    temporarily out of stock. BD’s worldwide sales are not
    generally seasonal, with the exception of certain medical
    devices in the BD Medical segment, and respiratory and flu
    diagnostic products in the BD Diagnostics segment, that relate
    to seasonal diseases such as influenza.



Raw
    Materials



BD purchases many different types of raw materials, including
    plastics, glass, metals, textiles, paper products, agricultural
    products, electronic and mechanicalsub-assembliesand various biological, chemical and petrochemical products.
    Certain raw materials (primarily related to the BD Biosciences
    segment) are not available from multiple sources. In the case of
    certain principal raw materials that are available from multiple
    sources, for various reasons (including quality assurance and
    cost effectiveness), BD elects to purchase these raw materials
    from sole suppliers. In cases where there are regulatory
    requirements relating to qualification of suppliers, BD may not
    be able to





establish additional or replacement sources on a timely basis.
    While BD works closely with its suppliers to ensure continuity
    of supply, the termination, reduction or interruption in supply
    of these sole-sourced raw materials could impact our ability to
    manufacture and sell certain of our products.



Research
    and Development



BD conducts its research and development (“R&D”)
    activities at its operating units and at BD Technologies in
    Research Triangle Park, North Carolina. The majority of
    BD’s R&D activities are conducted in the United
    States. Outside the United States, BD conducts R&D
    activities at BD Diagnostic Systems in Quebec City, Canada and
    Suzhou, China, BD Pharmaceutical Systems in Pont de Claix,
    France, and BD Medical Surgical Systems in Tuas, Singapore. BD
    also collaborates with certain universities, medical centers and
    other entities on R&D programs, and retains individual
    consultants to support its efforts in specialized fields. BD
    spent approximately $476 million, $431 million and
    $405 million on research and development during the fiscal
    years ended September 30, 2011, 2010 and 2009,
    respectively. Fiscal 2011 spending included a $9 million charge
    resulting from the discontinuance of a research program.



Intellectual
    Property and Licenses



BD owns significant intellectual property, including patents,
    patent applications, technology, trade secrets, know-how,
    copyrights and trademarks in the United States and other
    countries. BD is also licensed under domestic and foreign
    patents, patent applications, technology, trade secrets,
    know-how, copyrights and trademarks owned by others. In the
    aggregate, these intellectual property assets and licenses are
    of material importance to BD’s business. BD believes,
    however, that no single patent, technology, trademark,
    intellectual property asset or license is material in relation
    to BD’s business as a whole, or to any business segment.



Competition





BD competes in this evolving marketplace on the basis of many
    factors, including price, quality, innovation, service,
    reputation, distribution and promotion. The impact of these
    factors on BD’s competitive position varies among BD’s
    various product offerings. In order to remain competitive in the
    industries in which it operates, BD continues to make
    investments in research and development, quality management,
    quality improvement, product innovation and productivity
    improvement in support of its core strategy — to
    increase revenue growth by focusing on products that deliver
    greater benefits to patients, healthcare workers and researchers.



Third-Party
    Reimbursement



Healthcare providers and related facilities are generally
    reimbursed for their services through numerous payment systems
    managed by various governmental agencies worldwide (e.g.,
    Medicare and Medicaid in the





United States, the National Health Service in the United
    Kingdom, the Joint Federal Committee in Germany, the Commission
    d’Evaluation des Produits et prestations in France, the
    Ministry for Health, Labor and Welfare in Japan, the Ministry of
    Health and the National Development and Reform Commission in
    China, among many others), private insurance companies, and
    managed care organizations. The manner and level of
    reimbursement in any given case may depend on the site of care,
    the procedure(s) performed, the final patient diagnosis, the
    device(s)and/ordrug(s) utilized, the available budget, or a combination of
    these factors, and coverage and payment levels are determined at
    each payer’s discretion. The coverage policies and
    reimbursement levels of these third-party payers may impact the
    decisions of healthcare providers and facilities regarding which
    medical products they purchase and the prices they are willing
    to pay for those products. Thus, changes in reimbursement level
    or method may either positively or negatively impact sales of
    BD products.



While BD is actively engaged in promoting the value of its
    products for payers and patients, and it employs various efforts
    and resources to positively impact coverage, coding and payment
    processes in this regard, it has no direct control over payer
    decision-making with respect to coverage and payment levels for
    BD products. Additionally, we expect many payers to continue to
    explore cost-containment strategies (e.g., comparative and
    cost-effectiveness analyses, so-called“pay-for-performance”programs implemented by various public and private payers, and
    expansion of payment bundling schemes such as Accountable Care
    Organizations (ACOs), DRG programs, and other such methods that
    shift medical cost risk to providers) that could potentially
    impact coverageand/orpayment levels for current or future BD products.



As BD’s product offerings are diverse across many
    healthcare settings, they are affected to varying degrees by the
    many payment systems. Therefore, individual countries, product
    lines or product classes may be impacted by changes to these
    systems. Notably, the recently-enacted healthcare reform
    legislation in the United States (i.e., the Patient Protection
    and Affordable Care Act (“PPACA”)) provides for
    numerous, substantive changes to U.S. healthcare payment
    systems. Many of the changes set forth in this statute have only
    recently been promulgated through formal regulations and most of
    them have yet to be implemented. At this time, it remains
    unclear whether, or how, the implementation of regulations
    pursuant to the PPACA might affect payments for BD products. See
    Item 1A. Risk Factors for a further discussion.



Regulation



BD’s medical technology products and operations are subject
    to regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
    (“FDA”) and various other federal and state agencies,
    as well as by foreign governmental agencies. These agencies
    enforce laws and regulations that govern the development,
    testing, manufacturing, labeling, advertising, marketing and
    distribution, and market surveillance of BD’s medical
    products. The scope of the activities of these agencies,
    particularly in the Europe, Japan and Asia Pacific regions in
    which BD operates, has been increasing.



BD actively maintains FDA/ISO Quality Systems that establish
    standards for its product design, manufacturing, and
    distribution processes. Prior to marketing or selling most of
    its products, BD must secure approval from the FDA and
    counterpartnon-U.S. regulatoryagencies. Following the introduction of a product, these
    agencies engage in periodic reviews of BD’s quality
    systems, as well as product performance, and advertising and
    promotional materials. These regulatory controls, as well as any
    changes in FDA policies, can affect the time and cost associated
    with the development, introduction and continued availability of
    new products. Where possible, BD anticipates these factors in
    its product development and planning processes.



These agencies possess the authority to take various
    administrative and legal actions against BD, such as product
    recalls, product seizures and other civil and criminal
    sanctions. BD also undertakes voluntary compliance actions such
    as voluntary recalls.



BD also is subject to various federal and state laws, and laws
    outside the United States, concerning healthcare fraud and abuse
    (including false claims laws and anti-kickback laws), global
    anti-corruption, transportation, safety and health, and customs
    and exports. Many of the agencies enforcing these laws have
    increased their enforcement activities with respect to medical
    device manufacturers in recent years. This





appears to be part of a general trend toward increased
    regulation and enforcement activity within and outside the
    United States.



BD believes it is in compliance in all material respects with
    applicable law and the regulations promulgated by the applicable
    agencies (including, without limitation, environmental laws and
    regulations), and that such compliance has not had, and will not
    have, a material adverse effect on our operations or results.
    See Item 3. Legal Proceedings.



Employees



As of September 30, 2011, BD had 29,369 employees, of
    whom 12,041 were employed in the U.S. (including Puerto
    Rico). BD believes that its employee relations are satisfactory.



Other
    Matters



Oil-for-Food



In May 2007, the French Judicial Police conducted searches of
    BD-France’s offices in France with respect to the matters
    that were the subject of the 2005 IIC report. We were informed
    that BD-France is one of a number of companies named in the IIC
    report that is being investigated by the French Judicial Police.
    In June 2009, the Belgian Federal Police contacted BD to
    interview certain individuals and review documents related to
    sales made under the Programme. We are cooperating fully with
    these investigations.



Available
    Information



BD maintains a website atwww.bd.com. BD also makes
    available its Annual Reports onForm 10-K,its Quarterly Reports onForm 10-Q,and its Current Reports onForm 8-K(and amendments to those reports) as soon as reasonably
    practicable after those reports are electronically filed with,
    or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission
    (“SEC”). These filings may be obtained and printed
    free of charge atwww.bd.com/investors.
    In addition, the written charters of the Audit Committee, the
    Compensation and Benefits Committee, the Corporate Governance
    and Nominating Committee, the Executive Committee and the
    Science, Innovation and Technology Committee of the Board of
    Directors, BD’s Corporate Governance Principles and its
    Code of Conduct, are available at BD’s website atwww.bd.com/investors/corporate_governance/. Printed
    copies of these materials, BD’s 2011 Annual Report onForm 10-K,and BD’s reports and statements filed with, or furnished
    to, the SEC, may be obtained, without charge, by contacting the
    Corporate Secretary, BD, 1 Becton Drive, Franklin Lakes, New
    Jersey07417-1880,telephone201-847-6800.In addition, the SEC maintains an internet site that contains
    reports, proxy and information statements, and other information
    regarding issues that file electronically with the SEC atwww.sec.gov.





BD also routinely posts important information for investors on
    its website atwww.bd.com/investors. BD may use this
    website as a means of disclosing material, non-public
    information and for complying with its disclosure obligations
    under Regulation FD adopted by the SEC. Accordingly,
    investors should monitor the Investor Relations portion of
    BD’s website noted above, in addition to following
    BD’s press releases, SEC filings, and public conference
    calls and webcasts. Our website and the information contained
    therein or connected thereto shall not be deemed to be
    incorporated into this Annual Report.



Forward-Looking
    Statements



BD and its representatives may fromtime-to-timemake certain forward-looking statements in publicly-released
    materials, both written and oral, including statements contained
    in filings with the SEC and in our reports to shareholders.
    Additional information regarding our forward-looking statements
    is contained in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.



