Item  1.Business.

General

Becton, Dickinson and Company (also known as “BD”) was incorporated under the laws of the State of New Jersey in November 1906, as successor to a New York business started in 1897. BD’s executive offices are located at 1 Becton Drive, Franklin Lakes, New Jersey 07417-1880, and its telephone number is (201) 847-6800. All references in this Form 10-K to "BD", "the Company", "we", "our" or "us" refer to Becton, Dickinson and Company and its domestic and foreign subsidiaries, unless otherwise indicated by the context.

BD is a global medical technology company engaged in the development, manufacture and sale of a broad range of medical supplies, devices, laboratory equipment and diagnostic products used by healthcare institutions, physicians, life science researchers, clinical laboratories, the pharmaceutical industry and the general public.  We provide customer solutions that are focused on improving medication management and patient safety; supporting infection prevention practices; equipping surgical and interventional procedures; improving drug delivery; aiding anesthesiology care; enhancing the diagnosis of infectious diseases and cancers; advancing cellular research and applications; and supporting the management of diabetes.

Business Segments

BD’s operations consist of three worldwide business segments: BD Medical, BD Life Sciences and BD Interventional.  As is further described below, BD completed its acquisition of C.R. Bard, Inc. ("Bard") on December 29, 2017, and BD Interventional includes the majority of Bard’s product offerings, along with certain product offerings formerly within BD Medical.  Additionally, certain of Bard's product offerings are included within BD Medical as part of the Medication Delivery Solutions unit (formerly Medication and Procedural Solutions).  Information with respect to BD’s business segments and the Bard acquisition is included in Note 6 and Note 9, respectively, to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, and is incorporated herein by reference.

BD Medical

BD Medical produces a broad array of medical technologies and devices that are used to help improve healthcare delivery in a wide range of settings. The primary customers served by BD Medical are hospitals and clinics; physicians’ office practices; consumers and retail pharmacies; governmental and nonprofit public health agencies; pharmaceutical companies; and healthcare workers. BD Medical consists of the following









organizational units:





Organizational UnitPrincipal Product Lines

Medication Delivery SolutionsPeripheral IV catheters (conventional, safety); advanced peripheral catheters (guidewire assisted peripherally inserted venous catheters, midline catheters, port access); central lines (peripherally inserted central catheters); acute dialysis catheters; vascular access technology (ultrasonic imaging);  vascular care (lock solutions, prefilled flush syringes, disinfecting caps); vascular preparation (skin antiseptics, dressings, securement); needle-free IV connectors and extensions sets; IV fluids; closed-system drug transfer devices; hazardous drug detection; conventional and safety hypodermic syringes and needles, anesthesia needles (spinal, epidural) and trays; enteral syringes, sharps disposal systems.

Medication ManagementSolutionsIntravenous medication safety and infusion therapy delivery systems, including infusion pumps and dedicated disposables; medication compounding workflow systems; automated medication dispensing;  automated supply management systems; medication inventory optimization and tracking systems; and analytics related to all the above products.

Diabetes CareSyringes, pen needles and other products related to the injection or infusion of insulin and other drugs used in the treatment of diabetes.

Pharmaceutical SystemsPrefillable drug delivery systems - prefillable syringes, safety, shielding and self-injection systems - provided to pharmaceutical companies for use as containers for injectable pharmaceutical products, which are then placed on the market as drug/device combinations.









BD Life Sciences

BD Life Sciences provides products for the safe collection and transport of diagnostics specimens, and instruments and reagent systems to detect a broad range of infectious diseases, healthcare-associated infections (“HAIs”) and cancers.  In addition, BD Life Sciences produces research and clinical tools that facilitate the study of cells, and the components of cells, to gain a better understanding of normal and disease processes.  That information is used to aid the discovery and development of new drugs and vaccines, and to improve the diagnosis and management of diseases.  The primary customers served by BD Life Sciences are hospitals, laboratories and clinics; blood banks; healthcare workers; public health agencies; physicians’ office practices; academic and government institutions; and pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies.  BD Life Sciences consists of the following organizational units:

Organizational UnitPrincipal Product LinesPreanalytical SystemsIntegrated systems for specimen collection; and safety-engineered blood collection products and systems.Diagnostic SystemsAutomated blood culturing and tuberculosis culturing systems; molecular testing systems for infectious diseases and women’s health; microorganism identification and drug susceptibility systems; liquid-based cytology systems for cervical cancer screening; rapid diagnostic assays; microbiology laboratory automation; and plated media.BiosciencesFluorescence-activated cell sorters and analyzers; monoclonal antibodies and kits for performing cell analysis; reagent systems for life science research; bench-side solutions for high-throughput targeted single-cell gene expression and RNA-Seq analysis; molecular indexing and next-generation sequencing sample preparation for genomics research; and clinical oncology, immunological (HIV) and transplantation diagnostic/monitoring reagents and analyzers.



BD Interventional

BD Interventional provides vascular, urology, oncology and surgical specialty products that are intended, with the exception of the V. Muller™ surgical and laparoscopic instrumentation products, to be used once and then discarded or are either temporarily or permanently implanted.  The primary customers served by BD Interventional are hospitals, individual healthcare professionals, extended care facilities, alternate site facilities and directly to patients via our Homecare business.  BD Interventional consists of the following organizational units:









Organizational UnitPrincipal Product LinesSurgeryHernia and soft tissue repair, biological grafts, bioresorbable grafts, biosurgery, and other surgical products; BD ChloraPrep™ surgical infection prevention products, thoracic and abdominal drainage products and V. Mueller™ surgical and laparoscopic instrumentation products, which are products previously included within the former Medication and Procedural Solutions unit of BD Medical.Peripheral InterventionPercutaneous transluminal angioplasty (“PTA”) balloon catheters, peripheral vascular stents, self-expanding and balloon-expandable stent grafts, vascular grafts, drug coated balloons, ports, biopsy, chronic dialysis, feeding, IVC filters, endovascular fistula creation devices and drainage products.Urology and Critical CareUrological drainage products, intermittent catheters, urinary and fecal management devices, kidney stone management devices, and Targeted Temperature Management.

Acquisitions

TVA Medical, Inc.

In July 2018, BD acquired TVA Medical, Inc., a company that develops minimally invasive vascular access solutions for patients with chronic kidney disease requiring hemodialysis.

C. R. Bard, Inc.

On December 29, 2017, BD completed the acquisition of Bard to create a medical technology company that is uniquely positioned to improve both the treatment of disease for patients and the process of care for health care providers.  Under the terms of the transaction, Bard common shareholders received approximately$222.93in cash and0.5077shares of BD stock per Bard share.  BD financed the cash portion of total consideration transferred with available cash, which included net proceeds raised in the third quarter of fiscal year 2017 through registered public offerings of equity securities and debt transactions.  Additional information regarding the Bard acquisition is contained in Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, which is incorporated herein by reference.

CareFusion Corporation

On March 17, 2015, BD completed the acquisition of CareFusion Corporation (“CareFusion”), a global medical technology company with a comprehensive portfolio of products in the areas of medication management, infection prevention, operating room and procedural effectiveness, and respiratory care. The CareFusion acquisition positioned BD as a global leader in medication management.

Remaining interest in Caesarea Medical Electronics

Upon its acquisition of CareFusion, BD acquired a 40% ownership interest in Caesarea Medical Electronics ("CME"), an Israeli-based global infusion pump systems manufacturer. On April 3, 2017, BD acquired the remaining 60% ownership interest in CME.

Additional information regarding these acquisitions is contained in Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8., Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, which is incorporated herein by reference.









Divestitures

Advanced Bioprocessing

In October 2018, BD completed the sale of its Advanced Bioprocessing business pursuant to a definitive agreement that was signed in September 2018.

Respiratory Solutions and Vyaire Medical

On October 3, 2016, BD sold a50.1%controlling financial interest in its Respiratory Solutions business, a component of the Medical segment, to form a venture, Vyaire Medical.  BD retained a49.9%non-controlling interest in the new standalone entity.  BD agreed to various contract manufacturing and certain logistical and transition services agreements with the new entity for a period of up to two years after the sale.  In April 2018, BD completed the sale of its remaining interest in Vyaire Medical.  BD received gross cash proceeds of approximately$435 millionand recognized a pre-tax gain on the sale of approximately$303 million.

Additional information regarding these divestitures is contained in Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, which is incorporated herein by reference.

International Operations

Foreign economic conditions and exchange rate fluctuations have caused the profitability related to foreign revenues to fluctuate more than the profitability related to domestic revenues. BD believes its activities in some countries outside the United States involve greater risk than its domestic business due to the factors cited herein, as well as the economic environment, local commercial and economic policies and political uncertainties. See further discussion of this risk in Item 1A. Risk Factors.

Distribution

BD’s products are marketed and distributed in the United States and internationally through independent distribution channels, and directly to hospitals and other healthcare institutions by BD and independent sales representatives. BD uses acute care, non-acute care, laboratory and drug wholesaler distributors to broadly support our overall disposable product demand from our end user customers in the United States.  In international markets, products are distributed either directly or through distributors, with the practice varying by country. Order backlog is not material to BD’s business inasmuch as orders for BD products generally are received and filled on a current basis, except for items temporarily out of stock. BD’s worldwide sales are not generally seasonal, with the exception of certain medical devices in the Medication Delivery Solutions business unit, and flu diagnostic products in the Diagnostic Systems business unit, which relate to seasonal diseases such









as influenza. In order to service its customers, optimize logistics, lower facilities costs and reduce finished goods inventory levels, BD operates consolidated distribution facilities in both the United States and Europe. Orders are normally shipped within a matter of days after receipt.

Raw Materials and Components

Research and Development

BD conducts its research and development (“R&D”) activities at its operating units and at BD Technologies in Research Triangle Park, North Carolina. The majority of BD’s R&D activities are conducted in North America. Outside North America, BD primarily conducts R&D activities in China, France, India, Ireland and Singapore. BD also collaborates with certain universities, medical centers and other entities on R&D programs and retains individual consultants and partners to support its efforts in specialized fields.  BD spent approximately $1,006 million, $774 million and $828 million on research and development during the fiscal years ended September 30, 2018, 2017, and 2016, respectively.

Intellectual Property and Licenses

BD owns significant intellectual property, including patents, patent applications, technology, trade secrets, know-how, copyrights and trademarks in the United States and other countries. BD is also licensed under domestic and foreign patents, patent applications, technology, trade secrets, know-how, copyrights and trademarks owned by others. In the aggregate, these intellectual property assets and licenses are of material importance to BD’s business. BD believes, however, that no single patent, technology, trademark, intellectual property asset or license is material in relation to BD’s business as a whole, or to any business segment.

Competition

BD operates in the increasingly complex and challenging medical technology marketplace. Technological advances and scientific discoveries have accelerated the pace of change in medical technology, the regulatory environment of medical products is becoming more complex and vigorous, and economic conditions have resulted in a challenging market. Companies of varying sizes compete in the global medical technology field. Some are more specialized than BD with respect to particular markets, and some have greater financial resources than BD. New companies have entered the field, particularly in the areas of molecular diagnostics, safety-engineered devices and in the life sciences, and established companies have diversified their business activities into the medical technology area. Other firms engaged in the distribution of medical technology products have become manufacturers of medical devices and instruments as well. Acquisitions and collaborations by and among companies seeking a competitive advantage also affect the competitive









environment. In addition, the entry into the market of low-cost manufacturers are creating increased pricing pressures. Some competitors have also established manufacturing sites or have contracted with suppliers located in these countries as a means to lower their costs.

BD competes in this evolving marketplace on the basis of many factors, including price, quality, innovation, service, reputation, distribution and promotion. The impact of these factors on BD’s competitive position varies among BD’s various product offerings. In order to remain competitive in the industries in which it operates, BD continues to make investments in research and development, quality management, quality improvement, product innovation and productivity improvement in support of its core strategies.

Third-Party Reimbursement

Reimbursement remains an important strategic consideration in the development and marketing of medical devices and procedures. Difficulty in obtaining coverage, coding and payment can be a significant barrier to the commercial success of a new product or procedure. The consequences can include slow adoption in the marketplace and inadequate payment levels that can continue for months or even years.

A majority of BD’s customers rely on third-party payers, including government programs and private health insurance plans, to reimburse some or all of the cost of the procedures, products and services they provide. These payers in the United States and abroad are increasingly focused on strategies to control spending on healthcare and reward improvements in quality and patient outcomes.

BD is actively engaged in identifying and communicating value propositions of its products for payer, provider, and patient stakeholders, and it employs various efforts and resources to attempt to positively impact coverage, coding and payment pathways. However, BD has no direct control over payer decision-making with respect to coverage and payment levels for BD products. The manner and level of reimbursement in any given case may depend on the site of care, the procedure(s) performed, the final patient diagnosis, the device(s) and/or drug(s) utilized, the available budget, or a combination of these factors, and coverage and payment levels are determined at each payer’s discretion. As BD’s product offerings are diverse across a variety of healthcare settings, they are affected to varying degrees by the many payment pathways that impact the decisions of healthcare providers regarding which medical products they purchase and the prices they are willing to pay for those products. Therefore, changes in reimbursement levels or methods may either positively or negatively impact sales of BD products in any given country for any given product.

As government programs seek to expand healthcare coverage for their citizens, they have at the same time sought to control costs by limiting the amount of reimbursement they will pay for particular procedures, products or services. Many third-party payers have developed specific payment and delivery mechanisms to support these cost control efforts and to focus on paying for value. These mechanisms include payment reductions, pay for performance measures, quality-based performance payments, restrictive coverage policies, bidding and tender mechanics, studies to compare the effectiveness of therapies and use of technology assessments. These changes, whether the result of legislation, new strategic alliances or market consolidations, have created an increased emphasis on the delivery of more cost-effective and quality-driven healthcare.

For example, as a result of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (“PPACA”), the U.S. is implementing value based payment methodologies and seeking to create alternative payment models such as bundled payments to continue to drive improved value. We see other governments around the world considering similar bundling reform measures, including the development of the Diagnosis Related Group (“DRG”) as a payment mechanism to drive toward quality and resource based reimbursement.









Regulation

General

BD’s medical technology products and operations are subject to regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) and various other federal and state agencies, as well as by foreign governmental agencies. These agencies enforce laws and regulations that govern the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, advertising, marketing and distribution, and market surveillance of BD’s medical products. The scope of the activities of these agencies, particularly in the Europe, Japan, and Asia Pacific regions in which BD operates, has been increasing.

BD actively maintains FDA/ISO Quality Systems that establish standards for its product design, manufacturing, and distribution processes. Prior to marketing or selling most of its products, BD must secure approval from the FDA and counterpart non-U.S. regulatory agencies. Following the introduction of a product, these agencies engage in periodic reviews and inspections of BD’s quality systems, as well as product performance and advertising and promotional materials. These regulatory controls, as well as any changes in FDA policies, can affect the time and cost associated with the development, introduction and continued availability of new products. Where possible, BD anticipates these factors in its product development and planning processes. These agencies possess the authority to take various administrative and legal actions against BD, such as product recalls, product seizures and other civil and criminal sanctions. BD also undertakes voluntary compliance actions, such as voluntary recalls.

BD also is subject to various federal and state laws, and laws outside the United States, concerning healthcare fraud and abuse (including false claims laws and anti-kickback laws), global anti-corruption, transportation, safety and health, and customs and exports. Many of the agencies enforcing these laws have increased their enforcement activities with respect to medical device manufacturers in recent years. This appears to be part of a general trend toward increased regulation and enforcement activity within and outside the United States.

In addition, as part of PPACA, the federal government has enacted the Sunshine Act provisions requiring BD to publicly report gifts and payments made to physicians and teaching hospitals. Failure to comply with these provisions could result in a range of fines, penalties and/or other sanctions.

Consent Decree

Our infusion pump organizational unit is operating under an amended consent decree entered into by CareFusion with the FDA in 2007. CareFusion’s consent decree with the FDA related to its Alaris™ SE infusion pumps. In February 2009, CareFusion and the FDA amended the consent decree to include all infusion pumps manufactured by or for CareFusion 303, Inc., the organizational unit that manufactures and sells infusion pumps in the United States. The amended consent decree does not apply to intravenous administration sets and accessories.

While this BD organizational unit remains subject to the amended consent decree, which includes the requirements of the original consent decree, it has made substantial progress in its compliance efforts. However, we cannot predict the outcome of this matter, and the amended consent decree authorizes the FDA, in the event of any violations in the future, to order us to cease manufacturing and distributing infusion pumps, recall products and take other actions. We may be required to pay damages of $15,000 per day per violation if we fail to comply with any provision of the amended consent decree, up to $15 million per year.

We also cannot currently predict whether additional monetary investment will be incurred to resolve this matter or the matter’s ultimate impact on our business. We may be obligated to pay more costs in the future because, among other things, the FDA may determine that we are not fully compliant with the amended consent decree and therefore impose penalties under the amended consent decree, and/or we may be subject to future proceedings and litigation relating to the matters addressed in the amended consent decree. As of September 30, 2018, we do not believe that a loss is probable in connection with the amended consent decree, and accordingly, we have no accruals associated with compliance with the amended consent decree.









FDA Warning Letters

In May 2017, the FDA conducted inspections at BD’s Preanalytical Systems (“PAS”) facility in Franklin Lakes, New Jersey. In July 2017, the FDA issued a Form 483 to BD PAS in connection with these inspections that contained observations of non-conformance relating to quality system regulations and medical device reporting relating to certain of our BD Vacutainer™ EDTA blood collection tubes.  On January 11, 2018, BD received a Warning Letter from the FDA, citing certain alleged violations of quality system regulations and of law. The Warning Letter states that, until BD resolves the outstanding issues covered by the Warning Letter, the FDA will not clear or approve any premarket submissions for Class III devices to which the non-conformances are reasonably related or grant requests for certificates to foreign governments. We submitted our response to the Warning Letter on January 31, 2018.

The FDA conducted an inspection of BD’s facility located in Franklin, Wisconsin (“BD Franklin site”) from May 16, 2018 through August 1, 2018.  On August 1, 2018, the FDA issued a Form 483 to the BD Franklin site in connection with these inspections that contained observations of non-conformance relating to quality system regulations relating to certain pre-filled Heparin lock flush syringes and pre-filled 0.9% sodium chloride lock flush syringes.  On September 14, 2018, BD received a Warning Letter from the FDA, citing certain alleged violations of quality system regulations and of law. In the Warning Letter, FDA stated that BD’s response appears to be adequate, but that several of the actions are still in progress and a follow-up inspection by FDA of the site will be necessary to verify compliance. We submitted our response to the Warning Letter onOctober 1, 2018.

BD is working closely with the FDA and intends to fully implement corrective actions to address the concerns identified in the Warning Letters. However, BD cannot give any assurances that the FDA will be satisfied with its responses to the Warning Letters or as to the expected date of resolution of matters included in the Warning Letters. While BD does not believe that the issues identified in the Warning Letters will have a material impact on BD’s operation, no assurances can be given that the resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on BD’s business, results of operations, financial conditions and/or liquidity.

For further discussion of risks relating to the regulations to which we are subject, see Item 1A. Risk Factors.

Employees

As of September 30, 2018, BD had 76,032 employees, of which 28,734 were employed in the U.S. (including Puerto Rico).  BD believes that its employee relations are satisfactory.

Available Information

BD maintains a website at www.bd.com. BD also makes available its Annual Reports on Form 10-K, its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and its Current Reports on Form 8-K (and amendments to those reports) as soon as reasonably practicable after those reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). These filings may be obtained and printed free of charge at www.bd.com/investors. In addition, the written charters of the Audit Committee; the Compensation and Management Development Committee; the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee; the Executive Committee; the Quality and Regulatory Committee; and the Science, Marketing, Innovation and Technology Committee of the Board of Directors, BD’s Corporate Governance Principles and its Code of Conduct, are available and may be printed free of charge at BD’s website at www.bd.com/investors/corporate_governance/. Printed copies of these materials, this 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and BD’s reports and statements filed with, or furnished to, the SEC, may also be obtained, without charge, by contacting the Corporate Secretary, BD, 1 Becton Drive, Franklin Lakes, New Jersey 07417-1880, telephone 201-847-6800. In addition, the SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov.

BD also routinely posts important information for investors on its website at www.bd.com/investors. BD may use this website as a means of disclosing material, non-public information and for complying with its disclosure obligations under Regulation FD adopted by the SEC. Accordingly, investors should monitor the Investor Relations portion of BD’s website noted above, in addition to following BD’s press releases, SEC filings, and









public conference calls and webcasts. Our website and the information contained therein or connected thereto shall not be deemed to be incorporated into this Annual Report.

Forward-Looking Statements

BD and its representatives may from time-to-time make certain forward-looking statements in publicly-released materials, both written and oral, including statements contained in filings with the SEC and in its reports to shareholders. Additional information regarding BD’s forward-looking statements is contained in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.





