Item  1.Business.

General

Becton,
Dickinson and Company (also known as “BD”) was incorporated under the laws of the State of New Jersey in November 1906, as successor to a New York business started in 1897. BD’s executive offices are located at 1 Becton Drive,
Franklin Lakes, New Jersey 07417-1880, and its telephone number is (201) 847-6800. All references in this Form 10-K to “BD” refer to Becton, Dickinson and Company and its domestic and foreign subsidiaries, unless otherwise indicated
by the context.

BD is a global medical technology company engaged principally in the development, manufacture and sale of
medical devices, instrument systems and reagents used by healthcare institutions, life science researchers, clinical laboratories, the pharmaceutical industry and the general public.

Business Segments

BD’s operations consist of three worldwide business
segments: BD Medical, BD Diagnostics and BD Biosciences. Information with respect to BD’s business segments is included in Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,
and is incorporated herein by reference.

BD Medical

BD Medical produces a broad array of medical devices that are used in a wide range of healthcare settings. BD Medical’s principal
product lines include needles, syringes and intravenous catheters for medication delivery (including safety-engineered and auto-disable devices); prefilled IV flush syringes; syringes and pen needles for the self-injection of insulin and other drugs
used in the treatment of diabetes; prefillable drug delivery systems provided to pharmaceutical companies and sold to end-users as drug/device combinations; regional anesthesia needles and trays; sharps disposal containers; closed-system transfer
devices; and generic prefilled injectables. The primary customers served by BD Medical are hospitals and clinics; physicians’ office practices; consumers and retail pharmacies; governmental and nonprofit public health agencies; pharmaceutical
companies; and healthcare workers.

BD Diagnostics

BD Diagnostics provides products for the safe collection and transport of diagnostics specimens, as well as instruments and reagent
systems to detect a broad range of infectious diseases, healthcare-associated infections (“HAIs”) and cancers. BD Diagnostics’ principal products include integrated systems for specimen collection; safety-engineered blood collection
products and systems; automated blood culturing systems; molecular testing systems for infectious diseases and women’s health; microorganism identification and drug susceptibility systems; liquid-based cytology systems for cervical cancer
screening; rapid diagnostic assays; microbiology laboratory automation; and plated media. BD Diagnostics serves hospitals, laboratories and clinics; reference laboratories; blood banks; healthcare workers; public health agencies; physicians’
office practices; and industrial and food microbiology laboratories.

BD Biosciences

BD Biosciences produces research and clinical tools that facilitate the study of cells, and the components of cells, to gain a better
understanding of normal and disease processes. That information is used to aid the discovery and development of new drugs and vaccines, and to improve the diagnosis and management of diseases. BD Biosciences’ principal product lines include
fluorescence-activated cell sorters and analyzers; monoclonal antibodies and kits for performing cell analysis; reagent systems for life science research; cell imaging systems; diagnostic assays; and cell culture media supplements for
biopharmaceutical manufacturing. The primary customers served by BD Biosciences are research and clinical laboratories; academic and government institutions; pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies; hospitals; and blood banks.







Acquisitions

During the first quarter of 2013, BD acquired a 100% interest in Safety Syringes, Inc., a privately held California-based company that specializes in the development of anti-needlestick devices for
prefilled syringes. The fair value of consideration transferred was $124 million, net of cash acquired.

During the second quarter of 2013, BD acquired a 100% interest in Cato Software Solutions, a privately held
Austria-based manufacturer of cato®and chemocato®software, a suite of comprehensive medication safety solutions for pharmacy intravenous medication preparation, physician therapy planning and nurse bedside
documentation. The fair value of consideration transferred was $23 million, which consisted of $14 million in cash, net of cash acquired, as well as $9 million in contingent consideration.

Additional information regarding these acquisitions is contained in Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements contained in
Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, which is incorporated herein by reference.

Divestitures

During the first quarter of 2013, BD completed the sale of its BD Biosciences — Discovery Labware unit, excluding its Advanced
Bioprocessing platform. Gross cash proceeds from the sale were approximately $740 million. Additional information regarding this divestiture is contained in Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8, Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data, which is incorporated herein by reference.

International Operations

BD’s products are manufactured and sold worldwide. For reporting purposes, we organize our operations outside
the United States as follows: Europe (which includes the Middle East and Africa); Greater Asia (which includes Japan and Asia Pacific); Latin America (which includes Mexico and Brazil) and Canada. The principal products sold by BD outside the United
States are needles and syringes; insulin syringes and pen needles; diagnostic systems; BD VacutainerTMbrand blood collection products; BD HypakTMbrand prefillable syringe systems; infusion therapy products; flow cytometry instruments and reagents; and disposable laboratory products. BD has manufacturing operations outside the United States in
Brazil, Canada, China, France, Germany, Hungary, India, Ireland, Japan, Mexico, the Netherlands, Pakistan, Singapore, Spain, Sweden and the United Kingdom. Geographic information with respect to BD’s operations is included under the heading
“Geographic Information” in Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, and is incorporated herein by reference.

Foreign economic conditions and exchange rate fluctuations have caused the profitability related to foreign revenues to fluctuate more
than the profitability related to domestic revenues. BD believes its activities in some countries outside the United States involve greater risk than its domestic business due to the factors cited herein, as well as the economic environment, local
commercial and economic policies and political uncertainties. See further discussion of this risk in Item 1A. Risk Factors.

Distribution

BD’s
products are marketed in the United States and internationally through independent distribution channels and directly to end-users by BD and independent sales representatives. Order backlog is not material to BD’s business inasmuch as orders
for BD products generally are received and filled on a current basis, except for items temporarily out of stock. BD’s worldwide sales are not generally seasonal, with the exception of certain medical devices in the BD Medical segment, and
respiratory and flu diagnostic products in the BD Diagnostics segment, which relate to seasonal diseases such as influenza.

Raw Materials

BD purchases many different types of raw materials, including plastics, glass, metals, textiles, paper products,
agricultural products, electronic and mechanical sub-assemblies and various biological, chemical and petrochemical products. BD seeks to ensure continuity of raw material supply by securing multiple options for







sourcing. However, there are situations where raw materials are only available from one supplier, which are referred to as sole sourced. The use of sole sourced materials may be due to sourcing
of proprietary and/or patented technology and processes that are intended to provide a unique market differentiation to our product. In other cases, while a raw material can be sourced from multiple manufacturers, only one supplier is qualified due
to quality assurance, cost or other considerations. In order to provide alternate sources of raw materials, BD must complete a rigorous qualification process, which most often includes completion of regulatory registration and approval. If clinical
trials are not required, this qualification process can take 3-18 months depending on the criticality of the change. When clinical trials are required, this process may lengthen the qualification phase for one to three years. BD continuously
assesses its sole sourced raw materials and maintains business continuity plans with our suppliers. BD’s continuity plans may include securing secondary supply with alternate suppliers, qualification of alternate manufacturing facilities,
maintaining contingency stock, internal development of supply and establishment of technology escrow accounts. While BD works closely with its suppliers, there may nonetheless be events that cause supply interruption, reduction or termination that
adversely impacts BD’s ability to manufacture and sell certain products.

Research and Development

BD conducts its research and development (“R&D”) activities at its operating units and at BD Technologies in Research
Triangle Park, North Carolina. The majority of BD’s R&D activities are conducted in the United States. Outside the United States, BD’s businesses conduct R&D activities in Canada, China, France, India and Singapore. BD also
collaborates with certain universities, medical centers and other entities on R&D programs, and retains individual consultants to support its efforts in specialized fields. BD spent approximately $494 million, $472 million and $470 million
on research and development during the fiscal years ended September 30, 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively.

Intellectual Property and
Licenses

BD owns significant intellectual property, including patents, patent applications, technology, trade secrets,
know-how, copyrights and trademarks in the United States and other countries. BD is also licensed under domestic and foreign patents, patent applications, technology, trade secrets, know-how, copyrights and trademarks owned by others. In the
aggregate, these intellectual property assets and licenses are of material importance to BD’s business. BD believes, however, that no single patent, technology, trademark, intellectual property asset or license is material in relation to
BD’s business as a whole, or to any business segment.

Competition

BD operates in the increasingly complex and challenging medical technology marketplace. Technological advances and scientific discoveries
have accelerated the pace of change in medical technology, the regulatory environment of medical products is becoming more complex and vigorous, and economic conditions have resulted in a challenging market. Companies of varying sizes compete in the
global medical technology field. Some are more specialized than BD with respect to particular markets, and some have greater financial resources than BD. New companies have entered the field, particularly in the areas of molecular diagnostics,
safety-engineered devices and in the life sciences, and established companies have diversified their business activities into the medical technology area. Other firms engaged in the distribution of medical technology products have become
manufacturers of medical devices and instruments as well. Acquisitions and collaborations by and among companies seeking a competitive advantage also affect the competitive environment. In addition, the entry into the market of manufacturers located
in China and other low-cost manufacturing locations are creating increased pricing pressures, particularly in developing markets. Some competitors have also established manufacturing sites or have contracted with suppliers located in these countries
as a means to lower their costs.

BD competes in this evolving marketplace on the basis of many factors, including price,
quality, innovation, service, reputation, distribution and promotion. The impact of these factors on BD’s competitive position varies among BD’s various product offerings. In order to remain competitive in the industries in which it
operates, BD continues to make investments in research and development, quality management, quality improvement, product innovation and productivity improvement in support of its core strategy — to increase revenue growth by focusing on
products that deliver greater benefits to patients, healthcare workers and researchers.







Third-Party Reimbursement

While BD is actively engaged in promoting the value propositions of its products for payer, provider, and patient stakeholders, and it employs various efforts and resources to positively impact coverage,
coding and payment processes in this regard, it has no direct control over payer decision-making with respect to coverage and payment levels for BD products. Many third-party payers are seeking to control the growth of healthcare expenditures and
have developed specific payment and delivery mechanisms to support these cost control efforts. These mechanisms include payment reductions, pay for performance measures, quality-based performance payments, restrictive coverage policies, bidding and
tender mechanics, studies to compare the effectiveness of therapies and use of technology assessments. These changes have created an increased emphasis on the delivery of more cost-effective and quality-driven healthcare. As government programs,
including CMS and many other national healthcare programs, seek to expand healthcare coverage for their citizens, they have at the same time sought to control costs by limiting the amount of reimbursement they will pay for particular procedures,
products or services.

As BD’s product offerings are diverse across many healthcare settings, they are affected to varying
degrees by the many payment systems. Therefore, individual countries, product lines or product classes may be impacted by changes to these systems. Notably the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (“PPACA”) provides for numerous,
substantive changes to U.S. healthcare payment systems. The law focuses on Medicare provisions aimed at improving quality and decreasing costs. The Medicare provisions include value-based payment programs, increased funding of comparative
effectiveness research, reduced hospital payments for avoidable readmissions and healthcare acquired conditions and infections. New programs to evaluate alternative payment methodologies that promote care coordination such as Accountable Care
Organizations and bundled physician and hospital payments have been established and will continue to be implemented during the next several years that could impact the value and payment for our products. See Item 1A. Risk Factors for a further
discussion.

Regulation

BD’s medical technology products and operations are subject to regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) and various other federal and state agencies, as well as by
foreign governmental agencies. These agencies enforce laws and regulations that govern the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, advertising, marketing and distribution, and market surveillance of BD’s medical products. The scope of
the activities of these agencies, particularly in the Europe, Japan and Asia Pacific regions in which BD operates, has been increasing.

BD actively maintains FDA/ISO Quality Systems that establish standards for its product design, manufacturing, and distribution processes. Prior to marketing or selling most of its products, BD must secure
approval from the FDA and counterpart non-U.S. regulatory agencies. Following the introduction of a product, these agencies engage in periodic reviews of BD’s quality systems, as well as product performance and advertising and promotional
materials. These regulatory controls, as well as any changes in FDA policies, can







affect the time and cost associated with the development, introduction and continued availability of new products. Where possible, BD anticipates these factors in its product development and
planning processes. These agencies possess the authority to take various administrative and legal actions against BD, such as product recalls, product seizures and other civil and criminal sanctions. BD also undertakes voluntary compliance actions
such as voluntary recalls.

BD also is subject to various federal and state laws, and laws outside the United States,
concerning healthcare fraud and abuse (including false claims laws and anti-kickback laws), global anti-corruption, transportation, safety and health, and customs and exports. Many of the agencies enforcing these laws have increased their
enforcement activities with respect to medical device manufacturers in recent years. This appears to be part of a general trend toward increased regulation and enforcement activity within and outside the United States.

In addition, as part of PPACA, the federal government has enacted the Sunshine Act provisions. Beginning in 2013, we are required to
track, and in 2014 publicly report, gifts and payments made to physicians and teaching hospitals. Many of these requirements are new and uncertain, and failure to comply could result in a range of fines, penalties and/or other sanctions.

BD believes it is in compliance in all material respects with applicable law and the regulations promulgated by the applicable agencies
(including, without limitation, environmental laws and regulations), and that such compliance has not had, and will not have, a material adverse effect on our operations or results. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings.

Employees

As of
September 30, 2013, BD had 29,979 employees, of whom 11,908 were employed in the U.S. (including Puerto Rico). BD believes that its employee relations are satisfactory.

Available Information

BD maintains a website atwww.bd.com. BD also
makes available its Annual Reports on Form 10-K, its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and its Current Reports on Form 8-K (and amendments to those reports) as soon as reasonably practicable after those reports are electronically filed with, or
furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). These filings may be obtained and printed free of charge atwww.bd.com/investors. In addition, the written charters of the Audit Committee, the Compensation and Benefits
Committee, the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee, the Executive Committee and the Science, Marketing, Innovation and Technology Committee of the Board of Directors, BD’s Corporate Governance Principles and its Code of Conduct, are
available at BD’s website atwww.bd.com/investors/corporate_governance/. Printed copies of these materials, this 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and BD’s reports and statements filed with, or furnished to, the SEC, may be obtained,
without charge, by contacting the Corporate Secretary, BD, 1 Becton Drive, Franklin Lakes, New Jersey 07417-1880, telephone 201-847-6800. In addition, the SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and
other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC atwww.sec.gov.

BD also routinely posts
important information for investors on its website atwww.bd.com/investors. BD may use this website as a means of disclosing material, non-public information and for complying with its disclosure obligations under Regulation FD adopted by the
SEC. Accordingly, investors should monitor the Investor Relations portion of BD’s website noted above, in addition to following BD’s press releases, SEC filings, and public conference calls and webcasts. Our website and the information
contained therein or connected thereto shall not be deemed to be incorporated into this Annual Report.

Forward-Looking Statements

BD and its representatives may from time-to-time make certain forward-looking statements in publicly-released materials,
both written and oral, including statements contained in filings with the SEC and in its reports to shareholders. Additional information regarding BD’s forward-looking statements is contained in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.







