10-K


c52267_10-k.htm

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a
well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.

Yes

x

No

o

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not
required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Exchange Act.

Yes

o

No

x

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has
filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes

x

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent
filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will
not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K.

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a
large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See
the definitions of “large accelerated filer”, “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of
the Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large accelerated filer

x

Accelerated
filer

o

Non-accelerated filer

o

(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)

Smaller reporting company

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a
shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).

Yes

o

No

x

As of June 30, 2007, the aggregate market value of the
approximately 156 million shares of voting and non-voting common equity held by
non-affiliates of the registrant was approximately $8.1 billion, based on the
closing price on such date of the registrant’s Common Stock on the New York
Stock Exchange.

As of February 1, 2008, there were outstanding
194,149,127 shares of Common Stock, $.01 par value per share.

Documents
Incorporated by Reference

Document

Part of
 Form 10-K into

which incorporated

Portions of the registrant’s Proxy Statement to be
 filed by April 28, 2008

Part III

Such Proxy Statement, except for the portions thereof
which have been specifically incorporated by reference, shall not be deemed
“filed” as part of this report on Form 10-K.

TABLE
OF CONTENTS

i

Item 1. Business

Quest
Diagnostics Incorporated is the nation’s leading provider of diagnostic
testing, information and services. We provide insights that enable patients,
physicians and others to make decisions to improve health services.

Quest
Diagnostics was incorporated in Delaware in 1990; its predecessor companies
date back to 1967. We conduct business through our headquarters in Madison, New
Jersey, and our laboratories, patient service centers, offices and other
facilities around the United States and in selected locations outside the
United States. Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms “Quest
Diagnostics,” the “Company,” “we” and “our” mean Quest Diagnostics Incorporated
and its consolidated subsidiaries.

During
2007, we generated net revenues of $6.7 billion and processed approximately 145
million test requisitions. Additional financial information concerning Quest
Diagnostics, including our consolidated subsidiaries, for each of the years
ended December 31, 2007, December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005 is included in
the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto in “Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data” in Part II, Item 8.

OUR STRATEGY AND STRENGTHS

Our
mission is to be the undisputed world leader in diagnostic testing, information
and services. Our vision states that we are dedicated
people improving the health of patients through unsurpassed diagnostic insights
and innovation. We focus on patients, growth and people to help achieve our
goals.

We
offer an array of high value diagnostics services and products that are
attractive to patients, physicians, payers, and other providers to become the
diagnostic services provider of choice in key areas of the diagnostic testing
    market. We believe that successful execution of this strategy will drive
    continued growth. Additionally, we believe that we will be able to grow over
    the long term at a rate above the U.S. clinical laboratory industry growth
    rate, to expand margins and to increase international revenues to 10% of
    consolidated revenues. We plan to do this by gaining more customers and selling
    more services and products to existing customers. The elements of our strategy
    are discussed below:


In
support of our strategy, in recent years we have undertaken several
acquisitions. Our recent acquisitions are enabling us to expand our
capabilities, further leverage our assets and differentiate our Company from
our competition, diversify our revenues and accelerate our growth. We are
focused on completing the successful integration of these acquisitions to
realize their full value. We expect to continue to selectively evaluate
acquisitions in the United States and in select international markets.

BUSINESS OPERATIONS

Quest
Diagnostics is the leading provider of diagnostic testing, information and
services in the United States, providing insights that enable patients and
physicians to make decisions to improve health services. We offer patients and
physicians the broadest access to diagnostic testing services through our
nationwide network of laboratories and owned patient service centers. The
Company provides interpretive consultation through the largest medical and
scientific staff in the industry, with approximately 900 M.D.s and Ph.D.s
around the country. We are the leading provider of gene-based testing and other
esoteric testing, anatomic pathology services, including dermatopathology, and
testing for drugs-of-abuse. The Company is also a leading provider of testing
for clinical trials, and risk assessment services for the life insurance
industry. Our diagnostics products business manufactures and markets diagnostic
test kits and specialized point-of-care testing. We empower healthcare
organizations and clinicians with robust information technology solutions. Our
activities are discussed below.


In
2007, our clinical testing business accounted for greater than 90% of our net
revenues, with the balance derived from insurer services, clinical trials
testing, diagnostic products and healthcare information technology. Most of our
services are provided in the United States. Clinical testing includes routine
testing, anatomic pathology, gene-based and esoteric testing and drugs-of-abuse
testing, which generated approximately 55%, 15%, 18% and 3%, respectively, of
our 2007 net revenues. Risk assessment services for the life insurance
industry, clinical trials testing, diagnostic products and healthcare
information technology combined generated approximately 9% of our 2007 net
revenues. In 2007, we derived approximately 3% of our net revenues from foreign
operations.

Clinical Testing.

Clinical testing is an
essential element in the delivery of healthcare services. Physicians use
clinical tests to assist in the detection, diagnosis, evaluation, monitoring
and treatment of diseases and other medical conditions. Clinical testing is
generally categorized as clinical laboratory testing and anatomic pathology
services. Clinical laboratory testing is performed on body fluids, such as
blood and urine. Anatomic pathology services are performed on tissues,
including biopsies, and other samples, such as human cells. Many clinical tests
are considered routine and can be performed by most commercial clinical
laboratories. Tests that are not routine and that require highly skilled
personnel and generally require more sophisticated equipment are considered
esoteric tests. Esoteric tests, including gene-based tests, are generally
referred to laboratories that specialize in performing those tests.

We
are the largest commercial clinical testing company in the U.S., with a leading
position in most U.S. geographic markets and service offerings. We offer
customers the broadest access in the nation to clinical and anatomic pathology
testing, and the most extensive test menu. Including our joint ventures, we operate
a network of approximately 2,100 of our own patient service centers, principal
laboratories located in more than 30 major metropolitan areas throughout the
United States and approximately 150 smaller “rapid-response” laboratories. We
also operate approximately 40 outpatient anatomic pathology centers, and
provide inpatient anatomic pathology and medical director services for
hospitals throughout the U.S.

We
provide interpretive consultation through the largest medical and scientific
staff in the industry, with approximately 900 M.D.s and Ph.D.s around the
country. As testing methods become more complex, we believe that providing
sound medical and scientific consultation regarding the correct application of
tests and the correct interpretation of test results will help spur the
adoption of new tests, improve patient outcomes and enhance client
satisfaction. Our medical and scientific directors are available for
consultation with our customers.

Routine
clinical testing.

We are the leading provider in the
United States of routine clinical testing, including testing for
drugs-of-abuse.

We
perform routine testing through our network of major laboratories, rapid
response laboratories and patient service centers. We also perform routine
testing at the hospital laboratories we manage. Our major laboratories offer a
full line of routine clinical tests. Rapid response laboratories are smaller
facilities where we can quickly perform an abbreviated menu of routine tests
for customers that require rapid turnaround times. Patient service centers are
facilities where specimens are collected, and are typically located in or near
a building used by medical professionals. We operate 24 hours a day, 365 days a
year. We perform and report most routine tests within 24 hours. The majority of
test results are delivered electronically.

Routine
tests measure various important bodily health parameters such as the functions
of the kidney, heart, liver, thyroid and other organs. Commonly ordered tests
include:

Anatomic
Pathology.

We are the leading provider of anatomic
pathology services, including dermatopathology, in the U.S. Anatomic pathology
involves the diagnosis of cancer and other diseases and medical conditions through
the examination of tissue and cell samples taken from patients. We provide
anatomic pathology and other cancer diagnostic testing through our centers of
excellence and approximately 40 outpatient anatomic pathology centers.
Additionally, we provide inpatient anatomic pathology and medical director
services for hospitals throughout the country. We have a substantial presence
in target markets to deliver our services locally and enable our pathologists
to establish strong relationships with our referring physician base.


We
significantly strengthened our anatomic pathology services offering through our
May 2007 acquisition of AmeriPath Group Holdings, Inc., (“AmeriPath”).
We provide a full-range of cancer diagnostic services to all specialties including:
dermatopathology, gastroenterology, hematology, urology and oncology. We have
approximately 800 board-certified pathologists, including luminaries in their
field, with a passion for and dedication to serving patients with the highest
quality service.

We
have a strong history of leadership and innovation in cancer diagnostics. We
introduced the Leumeta™ family of tests for leukemia and lymphoma. These are
proprietary plasma-based molecular tests that may some day eliminate the need
for painful bone marrow biopsies. We offer Pap testing using liquid-based
technology in addition to conventional Pap testing and provide physicians the
option of computer assisted Pap screening. We were among those leading the
industry in educating physicians about molecular testing for human papilloma
virus (“HPV”), the leading cause of cervical cancer.

Gene-Based
and Other Esoteric Testing.

Gene-based and esoteric
tests are typically ordered when a physician requires additional information
to complete a diagnosis, establish a prognosis or choose or monitor a therapeutic
regimen. Esoteric tests include procedures in the areas of molecular
diagnostics, protein chemistry, cellular immunology and advanced microbiology.
Commonly ordered esoteric tests include viral and bacterial detection tests,
drug therapy monitoring tests, autoimmune panels and complex cancer
evaluations. Esoteric tests are those tests that require professional “hands-on” attention
from highly skilled technical personnel, that generally require more sophisticated
technology, equipment or materials and that may be performed less frequently
than routine tests. Consequently, esoteric tests are generally reimbursed at
higher levels than routine tests. Because it is not cost-effective for most hospitals,
independent laboratories or physician office laboratories to develop and perform
a broad menu of esoteric tests, or to perform low-volume esoteric testing in-house,
these tests generally are outsourced to an esoteric clinical testing laboratory,
such as our Nichols Institute or Focus Diagnostics, that specializes in performing
these complex tests.

We
are the leading provider in the United States of gene-based and other esoteric
testing. We believe that we have the largest gene-based and esoteric testing
business in the United States, with over $1.2 billion in net revenues during
2007. We conduct complex and specialized testing, including molecular
diagnostics, on both coasts through our world renowned Nichols Institute
laboratory facilities, which are among the leading esoteric clinical testing
laboratories in the world.

Our
esoteric laboratories offer reference testing services to large academic
medical centers, hospitals and commercial laboratories. Our esoteric testing
laboratories perform hundreds of complex tests that are not routinely performed
by our regional laboratories, generally in the following fields:

New
test introduction.

We are a leading innovator,
bringing new and improved tests to the market. Gene-based and other esoteric
tests are the fastest growing area within the diagnostic testing industry. We
believe that the unveiling of the human genome and the linkages of genes and
the proteins they produce with disease are resulting in, and will continue to
result in, more complex and thorough predictive and diagnostic testing. We are
well positioned to benefit from this growth. We intend to focus on
commercializing diagnostic applications of discoveries in the areas of cancer,
cardiovascular disease and infectious disease as well as functional genomics
and proteomics, including the area of personalized medicine. We are committed
to introducing clinically relevant and leading edge diagnostic tests. We bring
tests to market that we develop as well as through relationships with
diagnostic technology developers. We are a leader in


transferring
technical innovations to the market through our relationships with the academic
community and pharmaceutical and biotechnology firms, as well as through
collaborations with emerging medical technology companies that develop and
commercialize novel diagnostics, pharmaceutical and device technologies. As the
industry leader, we believe that we are the best partner for developers of new
technology and tests to introduce their products to the marketplace.

We
focus our resources on key disease states, including cancer, cardiovascular
disease and infectious disease, and technologies that will help doctors care
for their patients through better screening, diagnosis, prognosis, treatment
choice and monitoring. During 2007, we introduced new and improved assays and
services, principally in the following areas:


We
believe that offering a full range of gene-based and other esoteric tests,
including new tests, strengthens our market offering and market position and
enhances our reputation as the nation’s leading test provider.

Clinical
      Trials Testing.

We believe that we
are the second largest provider of central laboratory testing performed in
connection with clinical research trials on new drugs and vaccines. Clinical
research trials are required by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and other
international regulatory authorities to assess the safety and efficacy of new
drugs and vaccines. We have clinical trials testing centers in the United
States and the United Kingdom, and we provide clinical trials testing in
Australia, China and Singapore through affiliated laboratories. We are launching
      a clinical trials testing center in India. Approximately 45% of our net
      revenues from clinical trials testing in 2007 represented testing for GlaxoSmithKline
plc (GSK). We are the primary provider of central laboratory testing to support
GSK’s clinical trials testing requirements worldwide.

Insurer
      and Employer Services.

We believe
that we are the largest provider of risk assessment services to the life
insurance industry in the United States and Canada. Our risk assessment
services comprise underwriting support services to the life insurance industry
including teleunderwriting, specimen collection and paramedical examinations,
clinical testing, medical record retrieval, case management, motor vehicle
reports, telephone inspections, prescription histories and credit checks. The
clinical tests performed and data gathered by us are specifically designed to
assist an insurance company in objectively evaluating the mortality and
morbidity risks posed by policy applicants. The majority of the testing is
performed on specimens of individual life insurance policy applicants, but also
includes specimens of individuals applying for other types of insurance
policies. We also provide risk assessment services for insurance companies
doing business in many countries outside the United States. We plan in 2008 to
commence providing risk assessment services in India. We operate approximately
70 locations in the United States and Canada where we coordinate providing
paramedical examinations. We also contract with third parties for these
services at approximately 120 locations across the United States and Canada.
      We are actively performing paramedical examinations in select patient service
centers because many life insurance applicants prefer this option to a home or
workplace examination.

We
believe that we are the leading provider of clinical testing to employers for
drugs-of-abuse. Our Drug Testing Index, which is an annual report of our
aggregate drug testing results, is used nationally by employers, the federal
government and the media to help understand and explain drug abuse among the
nation’s workforce. We also provide wellness testing to employers to enable
employees to take an active role in improving their health and empowering
employers with aggregated health information. Our Blueprint for Wellness
program offers employers actionable data to power their health improvement and
cost containment programs.

Diagnostic Products, Including Point-of-care, or Near
Patient, Testing.

Technology advances are enabling testing to move
closer to the patient and are becoming increasingly available and reliable.
Over time, some testing that is now done in clinical laboratories will cease to
be performed in clinical laboratories and will be performed closer to the
patient. We believe that our point-of-care testing strategy will strengthen our
relationship with our customers by enabling us to offer more solutions that
improve the effectiveness of our customers and the care of their patients by
enabling faster diagnosis and treatment. We are well-positioned to offer
options and integrated solutions to physicians, hospitals and clinics for the
testing methods that are most appropriate for each patient and practice.

We
develop and manufacture products that enable healthcare professionals to make
healthcare diagnoses, including products for point-of-care, or near patient,
testing for the professional market. Since July 2006, we have acquired several
companies, including Focus Diagnostics, Enterix, and HemoCue, that enhance our
offerings and better enable us to serve these markets. We will consider additional
acquisitions or licenses of selective products to complement


the products
and services we provide. We offer an electronic data link through our Care360
Physician Portal so that the results of the InSure

TM

Quik FIT
point-of-care tests, as well as tests performed by our laboratories, will be
available in one electronic medical record. We intend to offer additional data
links in the future. This will differentiate our point-of-care test products
from other products that are not integrated into an electronic repository.

Focus
Diagnostics is a leading provider of infectious disease testing that has
established a reputation for being first to introduce new tests to the market,
including diagnostic tests for Lyme disease, West Nile Virus and SARS. Focus
Diagnostics develops, manufactures and markets diagnostic products, such as
HerpeSelect

®

ELISA tests that detect patient antibodies to specific
types of Herpes Simplex Virus, which can be performed on a variety of
instrument platforms. Focus received Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) 510(k)
clearance to sell in the U.S. its new multiplexed Plexus

®

product to detect type specific
antibodies to herpes simplex virus. Focus has also submitted an application to
the FDA for 510(k) clearance to
allow U.S. sales of Plexus

®

products
for the detection of antibodies specific to Epstein-Barr virus. Both the Plexus

®

products have received the CE mark and are available for purchase in European
Union countries. Focus Diagnostics sells its diagnostic products to large
academic medical centers, hospitals and commercial laboratories globally.

Enterix,
an Australia-based company, manufactures the InSure

TM

fecal
immunochemical (FIT) test for screening for colorectal cancer. It has developed
and plans to release early in 2008 the InSure

TM

Quik FIT test for
point-of-care testing.

HemoCue,
headquartered in Angelholm, Sweden, specializes in point-of-care testing.
HemoCue is the leading global provider in point-of-care testing for hemoglobin,
with a growing market share for professional glucose and microalbumin testing.
The measurement of hemoglobin is important for blood donors and for patients
being considered for transfusion therapy, or undergoing dialysis or
chemotherapy, where instant test results can lead to immediate treatment decisions.
HemoCue’s handheld systems are used in physician’s offices, blood banks,
hospitals, diabetes clinics and public health clinics. In developing countries
these systems are used as the primary means to screen for anemia. Approximately
one-half of HemoCue’s products are sold outside the United States. HemoCue has
a strong product development pipeline, based on its pioneering use of its
patented microfluidic systems.

In
October 2007, HemoCue received FDA 510(k) clearance for its White Blood Cell
Analyzer, a whole-blood test performed on finger-stick samples that assist
physicians diagnosing infection, inflammation, bone marrow failure, autoimmune
diseases and many other medical conditions now routinely tested by reference
laboratories. In addition, Focus Diagnostics received FDA 510(k) clearance for
its HerpeSelect® Express™ HSV-2, a test for aiding in the diagnosis of herpes
simplex type-2 virus, the primary cause of genital herpes. With 510(k)
clearance for marketing, physicians who operate CLIA-certified moderately
complex laboratories may now use these products to quickly produce results in a
single office visit. These two tests will help physicians quickly determine the
presence of an infection and allow physicians to make immediate treatment
decisions for their patients. We have applied for CLIA-waived status for these
two products and a microalbumin test which, if granted, would permit physicians
to use these products in a much larger segment of physician offices.

International.

We have laboratory
facilities in Mexico City, Mexico; San Juan, Puerto Rico; and Heston, England.
These laboratories support our clinical trials business and clinical testing in
their local markets. In addition, we have established operations in Gurgaon, India,
that will support our business activities in that country. We see opportunities
to bring our experience and expertise in diagnostic testing and point-of-care
products to international markets, particularly developing countries where the
testing markets are highly fragmented and less mature.

Healthcare Information Technology.

We
empower healthcare organizations and clinicians with information technology
solutions that can improve patient care and medical practice. We develop
differentiated products that are designed to support the creation and
management of patient records, by bringing together, in one patient-centric
view, information from various sources, including physician’s records and
laboratory and hospital data. We believe that these products enhance the value
we provide to our customers and result in increased customer loyalty by
providing more convenient ordering and reporting of clinical tests and better
access to patient-centric information.

We
develop and integrate clinical connectivity and data management solutions for
healthcare organizations, physicians and clinicians primarily through our
Care360 suite of products and the ChartMaxx

®

electronic document
management system for hospitals. The Care360 products, including our Care360
Physician Portal, enable physicians to order diagnostic tests and review test
results from Quest Diagnostics online. In addition, the Care360 Physician
Portal enables physicians to electronically prescribe medication, view clinical
and administrative information in a patient-centric record maintained in our
repository and share confidential information with medical colleagues in a
HIPAA-compliant manner. Demand has been growing for our information technology
solutions as physicians have expanded their usage of the Internet. By the end
of 2007, approximately 125,000 physicians were using our Care360 products
and, excluding our recently acquired AmeriPath business, approximately 65% of
our test orders and approximately 75% of our test results were
being transmitted electonically. In December 2007, approximately 140,000 e-prescribing
scripts were processed through Care360.


Additionally,
we have recently acquired the capabilities to deploy a health information
exchange system comprised of proprietary technologies that enable healthcare
providers to access and manage a range of patient data from multiple sources at
the point-of-care. These capabilities will enable us to provide solutions to
the many health information exchanges that are being developed.

THE UNITED STATES CLINICAL TESTING MARKET

Most
clinical tests are performed by one of three types of laboratories: commercial
clinical laboratories; hospital-affiliated laboratories; and physician-office
laboratories. We believe that hospital-affiliated laboratories account for
approximately 60% of the market, commercial clinical laboratories approximately
one-third and physician-office laboratories the balance.

Key Trends.

There are a number of key
trends that we expect to have a significant impact on the clinical testing
business in the U.S. and on our business. These trends present both
opportunities and risks. We believe that the industry will continue to grow
over the long term and that we are well positioned to benefit from the
long-term growth expected in the industry.

Demographics

.
The growing and aging population is increasing the demand for clinical testing.

Increased
testing

. We believe that we are entering the decade of
diagnostics, moving to preventative care from curative care. Physicians
increasingly are relying on testing to aid in the identification of risk
factors and symptoms of disease, the choice of therapeutic regimen and the
evaluation of treatment results. Physicians, consumers and payers increasingly
recognize the value of testing as a means to improve health and reduce the
overall cost of healthcare through early detection and prevention.

Science
and technology advances

. Medical advancements allow
for more accurate and earlier diagnosis and treatment of diseases. Continuing
research and development in the area of genomics is expected to yield new, more
sophisticated and specialized diagnostic tests.

Health
information technologies

. Demand is growing toward
comprehensive care management solutions that serve patients, payers and
practitioners by improving access to patient data, increasing patient
participation in care management, reducing medical errors and improving
clinical outcomes. There is an increasing focus on interconnectivity and desire
for real time data aggregation. Electronic medical records and patient health
records continue to grow.

Customer
consolidation

. Our customers, including health
insurance plans, employers, pharmaceutical companies and other intermediaries,
have been consolidating. We expect that this trend will continue. Consolidation
is increasing customer bargaining power and enhancing their purchasing
sophistication.

Highly
competitive

. The clinical testing industry remains
fragmented, is highly competitive and is subject to new competition.
Competition is growing from non-traditional competitors. New market entrants
with extensive resources may make acquisitions or expand into our traditional
areas of operations. We also are expanding into new diagnostic testing areas
that are highly competitive.

Regulatory
and policy environment

. Government oversight of and
attention to the healthcare industry in the United States is significant and
may increase.

Globalization

.
There is a growing demand for healthcare services in emerging market countries.
Opportunities are arising to participate in the restructuring or growth of the
healthcare systems in these countries. Additionally, our customers are
establishing positions outside the United States. Demographic changes globally
may also create opportunities.

Customers and Payers.

We provide testing
services to a broad range of customers, with orders for clinical testing
generally generated by physician offices, hospitals and employers. In most
cases, the customer that orders the testing is not responsible for the payments
of services. We consider a party that refers a test to us a “customer” and a
party that reimburses us a “payer.” Depending on the billing arrangement and
applicable law, the payer may be (1) a third party responsible for providing
health insurance coverage to patients, such as a health insurance plan,
self-insured employer benefit fund, or the traditional Medicare or Medicaid
program, (2) the patient or (3) the physician or other party (such as a
hospital, another laboratory or an employer) who referred the testing to us.


The
following table shows current estimates of the breakdown of the percentage of
our total volume of requisitions and net revenues associated with our clinical
testing business during 2007 applicable to each payer group:

Health
insurers, including managed care organizations and other health insurance
providers, which typically reimburse us as a contracted provider on behalf of
their members for clinical testing services performed, represent approximately
one-half of our net revenues from clinical testing. Reimbursement from our two
largest health insurer payers totaled approximately 11% of our net revenues in
2007. Aetna, which accounted for over 6% of our consolidated net revenues for 2007,
was our largest health insurer payer.

Physicians.

Physicians requiring testing for patients are the
primary referral source of our clinical testing volume. Physicians determine
which laboratory to recommend or use, based on a variety of factors, including
service; patient access and convenience, including inclusion in a health plan
network; price; and depth and breadth of test and service offering.

Most
of our clinical testing is referred by primary care physicians. We historically
have provided a strong value proposition in routine and esoteric clinical
testing. During 2007, we acquired AmeriPath, expanding our service
capabilities. This will enable us to leverage our capabilities and to more
effectively compete in several physician sub-specialties, including
dermatology, urology, gastroenterology, hematology and oncology, where
historically we had a smaller market share. We plan to continue to enhance our
test menu and service capabilities.

Health
Insurance Plans.

Health insurance plans, including
fully insured and self-funded employers, typically negotiate directly or
indirectly with a number of clinical laboratories, and represent approximately
one-half of our total clinical testing volumes and one-half of our net revenues
from clinical testing. In certain markets, such as California, health insurance
plans may delegate to independent physician associations (“IPAs”) the ability
to negotiate for clinical testing services on behalf of certain members. The
trend of consolidation among health insurance plans has continued.

Health
insurance plans and IPAs often demand that clinical test service providers
accept discounted fee structures or assume all or a portion of the financial
risk associated with providing testing services through capitated payment
arrangements and discounted fee-for-service arrangements. Under capitated
payment arrangements, we provide services at a predetermined monthly
reimbursement rate for each covered member, generally regardless of the number
or cost of services provided by us. Average reimbursement rates under capitated
payment arrangements are typically less than our overall average reimbursement
rate. Health insurance plans continue to focus product offerings on
point-of-service (“POS”) plans, and consumer driven health plans (“CDHPs”) that
offer a greater choice of healthcare providers. Pricing for these programs is
typically negotiated on a fee-for-service basis, which generally results in
higher revenue per requisition than under capitation arrangements. Increased
patients in CDHPs and high deductible plans involve greater patient
cost-sharing; this could negatively impact patient collection experience.

Most
of our agreements with major health insurance plans are non-exclusive
arrangements. Certain health insurance plans, however, have been increasingly
willing to limit the laboratory network to only a single national laboratory to
obtain improved pricing. In cases where members choose to use a non-contracted
provider due to service, quality or convenience, the non-contracted provider is
generally reimbursed at rates considered “reasonable and customary.” Contracted
rates are generally lower than “reasonable and customary” rates because of the
potential for greater volume as a contracted provider. A non-contracted
clinical test service provider with quality and service preferred by physicians
and patients to that of contracted providers could potentially realize greater
profits than if it was a contracted provider, provided that physicians and
patients continue to have choice in selecting their clinical test provider and
any potential additional cost to the patient of using a non-contracted provider
is not considered prohibitive.

We
also may be a member of a “complementary network.” A complementary
network is
generally a set of contractual arrangements that a third party will maintain
with various providers that allow for discounted fees for the


benefit of
members of the customers that arrange access through the third party. A member
of a health insurance plan may choose to access a non-contracted provider that
is a member of a complementary network; if so, the provider will be
reimbursed at a rate negotiated by the complementary network.

We
offer Quest

Net

TM

,
a service in which we develop and administer customized networks of clinical
test providers for health insurers. Quest

Net

TM

networks provide
physicians and patients multiple choices for clinical testing. Health insurance
plans that use these networks realize cost reductions by reducing testing
performed by non-contracted providers and from simplified payment
administration for clinical testing services.

Hospitals
and Other Laboratories.

Hospitals generally maintain an on-site laboratory
to perform testing on patients and refer less frequently needed and highly specialized
procedures to outside laboratories, which typically charge the hospitals on a
negotiated fee-for-service basis. Fee schedules for hospital reference testing
are typically negotiated on behalf of the hospitals by group purchasing
organizations. We believe that most hospital laboratories perform approximately
90% to 95% of their patients’ clinical tests. We provide services to hospitals
throughout the United States that vary from esoteric testing, to helping manage
their laboratories, to serving as the medical directors of the hospital’s
histology or clinical laboratory. We believe that we are the industry’s
market leader in servicing hospitals. Hospitals generally continue to look for
ways to fully utilize their existing laboratory capacity: they perform tests
needed by their patients and compete with commercial laboratories for outreach
(non-hospital patients) testing. Continuing to obtain referrals from hospitals
depends on our ability to provide high quality services that are more
cost-effective than if the hospitals were to perform the services themselves. We
    believe that our combination of full-service, bi-coastal esoteric testing
    capabilities, medical and scientific professionals for consultation, innovative
    connectivity products, focus on Six Sigma quality and dedicated sales and
    service professionals has positioned us to be an attractive partner for hospital
customers.

Most
  physicians have admitting privileges or other relationships with hospitals as
  part of their medical practice. Many hospitals leverage their relationships
  with community physicians and encourage the physicians to send their outreach
  testing to the hospital’s laboratory. In addition, hospitals that own physician
  practices generally require the physicians to refer tests to the hospital’s
  affiliated laboratory. Hospitals can have greater leverage with health insurers
  than do commercial clinical laboratories, particularly hospitals that have
  a significant market share; hospitals thus are frequently able to negotiate
  higher reimbursement rates with health insurance plans than commercial clinical
  laboratories for comparable clinical testing services.

We
also have joint venture arrangements with leading integrated healthcare
delivery networks in several metropolitan areas. These joint venture
arrangements, which provide testing for affiliated hospitals as well as for
unaffiliated physicians and other healthcare providers in their geographic areas,
serve as our principal laboratory facilities in their service areas. Typically,
we have either a majority ownership interest in, or day-to-day management
responsibilities for, our hospital joint venture relationships.

We
also provide testing services to federal, state and local governmental
agencies, and perform esoteric testing services for other commercial clinical
laboratories that do not have a full range of testing capabilities. These
customers are charged on a fee-for-service basis.

Insurers
and Employers.

We provide services to life insurance
companies and employers. Life insurance companies use clinical tests and other
services we provide to assist in making policy issuance and premium rating
decisions. Factors such as the number of applications for fully-underwritten
life insurance policies can affect the utilization of clinical testing and
other services we provide to our insurance customers. We seek to grow our
insurance revenues by increasing our market share and by offering new and
innovative clinical tests and other services. Our life insurance customers have
been consolidating, which has resulted in increased individual customer
purchasing power. We expect that this trend will continue. We charge our life
insurance customers on a fee-for-service basis, typically under multi-year
agreements.

Employers
use clinical tests for drugs-of-abuse to determine an individual’s
employability and his or her “fitness for duty.” Companies with high turnover
and safety conscious environments provide the highest volumes of testing.
Factors such as the general economy and job market can impact the utilization
of clinical testing. We seek to grow our employer volumes through offering new
and innovative programs to help companies with their goal in maintaining a safe
and productive workplace. One of these innovations is our Blueprint for
Wellness program where we provide wellness screenings to employers and their
employees.

GENERAL

Sales and Marketing.

Our sales force is
organized to focus on customer groups and service types. The majority of
representatives focus on marketing clinical laboratory testing, anatomic
pathology and related services to physicians, including physician specialists.
Supporting our physician sales teams are genomics and esoteric testing
specialists, who are specially trained and focused on educating our clients on
new and more complex tests. In addition,


we have a
health plan sales organization that focuses on regional and national insurance
    and healthcare organizations. We also have a hospital sales organization
    that focuses on meeting the unique clinical testing needs of hospitals and
    promotes the specialized capabilities of our Nichols Institute esoteric testing
laboratories and our Focus Diagnostics infectious and immunologic disease
testing laboratory. A smaller portion of our sales force focuses on selling
substance-of-abuse and wellness testing to employers. We also have a sales
force that focuses on selling risk assessment testing services to life
insurance companies. In addition, we have a sales organization that focuses on
selling diagnostic products to hospitals, commercial clinical laboratories,
physician office laboratories, blood banks and clinics. We also have a sales
force that focuses on our clinical trials services to drug developers. We focus
our sales efforts on obtaining and retaining profitable accounts. We have an
active customer management process to evaluate the growth potential and
profitability of all accounts.

Information Technology.

Information systems
are used extensively in virtually all aspects of our business, including
clinical laboratory testing, test reporting, billing, customer service,
logistics and management of medical data. We endeavor to establish systems that
create value and efficiencies for our patients and customers. The successful
delivery of our services depends, in part, on the continued and uninterrupted
performance of our information technology systems.

We
have made substantial investments in our healthcare information technology
systems, and believe that they help differentiate us. Innovations in our
healthcare information technology have the potential to improve patient care,
promote efficiency and reduce expense. Both at the federal and state levels,
there are public and private efforts to bring together healthcare providers,
information technology vendors and other stakeholders to facilitate the
creation of standards for the exchange and use of electronic healthcare data, including
standard clinical code sets. If certain healthcare data and information
technology standards were adopted, we could be required to make substantial
investments in our systems to comply with such standards or systems.

Our
systems may be vulnerable to damage from a variety of causes, including
telecommunications or network failures, human acts and natural disasters.
Moreover, despite the security measures we have implemented, our systems may be
subject to physical or electronic break-in attempts, computer viruses and
similar disruptive problems. We also have taken precautionary measures to
prevent unanticipated problems that could affect our systems. Nonetheless,
system failures, such as those that interrupt our ability to process test orders,
deliver test results or perform tests in a timely manner, could adversely
affect our reputation and result in a loss of customers and net revenues.

Some
of our historic growth has come through acquisitions and we continue to use
non-standardized billing, laboratory or other core information systems. We have
standardized some of our systems and are implementing standard laboratory
information and billing systems across our operations, including those from our
most recent acquisitions. We expect implementation will take several more years
to complete, and will result in significantly more centralized systems, improve
operating efficiency, provide management with more timely and comprehensive
information and enhance control over our operational environment. Failure to
properly implement the new systems could materially adversely affect our
business. During system conversions of this magnitude, workflow is
re-engineered to take advantage of best practices and enhanced system
capabilities, which may cause temporary disruptions in service.

Quality Assurance.

In our clinical testing
business, our goal is to continually improve the processes for collection,
storage and transportation of patient specimens, as well as the precision and
accuracy of analysis and result reporting. Our quality assurance efforts focus
on positive patient identification of specimens and reports, proficiency
testing, process audits, statistical process control and personnel training for
all of our laboratories and patient service centers. We continue to implement
our Six Sigma and standardization initiatives to help achieve our goal of
becoming recognized as the undisputed quality leader in the healthcare services
industry. In 1998, our Nichols Institute esoteric testing laboratory in
California was the first clinical laboratory in North America to achieve
International Organization for Standardization, or ISO, 9001 certification.
Several other of our laboratories also are ISO certified. These certifications
are international standards for quality management systems.

We
have extensive internal proficiency testing, quality control and audits for our
clinical laboratory operations. Quality control samples are processed in
parallel with the analysis of patient specimens. The results of tests on
quality control samples are monitored to identify trends, biases or imprecision
in our analytical processes. We also perform internal process audits as part of
our comprehensive quality assurance program.

We
have external proficiency testing and accreditation for our clinical laboratory
operations. All of our laboratories participate in various external quality
surveillance programs. They include, but are not limited to, proficiency
testing programs administered by the College of American Pathologists (“CAP”),
as well as some state agencies. CAP is an independent, non-governmental organization
    of board-certified pathologists approved by the Centers for Medicare and
    Medicaid Services (“CMS”) to inspect clinical laboratories to
    determine compliance with the standards required by the Clinical Laboratory
    Improvement Amendments of 1988. CAP offers an accreditation program to which
    laboratories may voluntarily subscribe. All of our major regional and esoteric
    laboratories and most of our rapid response laboratories are accredited by
    CAP. Accreditation includes on-site inspections and participation in the
    CAP (or equivalent) proficiency testing program. Also, all of our


cytotechnologists
and pathologists participate in an individual proficiency testing program.

Our
diagnostic products businesses maintain extensive quality assurance programs
focused on compliance with applicable regulatory requirements in the United
States, Europe and Australia. Focus Diagnostics, Enterix and HemoCue maintain
sites certified in accordance with, or audited to, ISO 13485.

Intellectual Property Rights.

We own
significant intellectual property, including patents, patent applications,
technology, trade secrets, know-how, copyrights and trademarks in the United
States and other countries. Our Company also is licensed under U.S. and
non-U.S. patents, patent applications, technology, trade secrets, know-how,
copyrights and trademarks owned by others. In the aggregate, these intellectual
property assets and licenses are of material importance to our business. We
believe, however, that no single patent, technology, trademark, intellectual
property asset or license is material to our business as a whole.

Our
approach is to manage our intellectual property assets to safeguard them and to
maximize their value to our enterprise. We generally actively defend our
intellectual property assets and pursue protection on our products, processes
and other intellectual property where possible.

Our
success in remaining a leading innovator in the diagnostic testing industry by
continuing to introduce new tests, technology and services will depend, in
part, on our ability to license new and improved technologies on favorable
terms. Other companies or individuals, including our competitors, may obtain
patents or other property rights on tests or processes that we may be
performing, particularly in such emerging areas as gene-based testing and other
specialty testing, that could prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to
develop, perform or sell our tests or operate our business. As a result, we may
be involved in intellectual property litigation and we may be found to infringe
on the proprietary rights of others, which could force us to do one or more of
the following:

Competition.

While
    there has been significant consolidation in the clinical testing industry
    in recent years, our industry remains fragmented and highly competitive.
    We primarily compete with three types of clinical testing providers: hospital-affiliated
    laboratories, other commercial clinical laboratories and physician-office
    laboratories. Our largest independent clinical laboratory competitor is Laboratory
    Corporation of America Holdings, Inc. In addition, we compete with many smaller
    regional and local commercial clinical laboratories, specialized esoteric
    laboratories and laboratories owned by physicians and hospitals. In anatomic
    pathology, additional competitors include anatomic pathology practices, including
    those in academic institutions. In addition, there has been a trend among
    specialty physician practices to bring pathologists into those practices.

We
believe that healthcare providers consider a number of factors when selecting a
testing provider, including:


We
believe that we are an effective competitor in each of these areas. We also
believe that the differentiation we are creating through our focus on a
superior patient experience, Six Sigma quality, unparalleled access and
distribution, the most comprehensive test menu and innovative test and
information technology offerings provide us with a competitive advantage and
enables us to compete on more than price alone.

We
believe that large commercial clinical laboratories may be able to increase
their share of the overall clinical testing market due to their large service
networks and lower cost structures. These advantages should enable larger
clinical laboratories to more effectively serve large customers and members of
large healthcare plans. In addition, we believe that consolidation in the
clinical testing industry will continue. However, a significant portion of
clinical testing is likely to continue to be performed by hospitals, which
generally have affiliations with community physicians that refer testing to us.
As a result of these affiliations, we compete against hospital-affiliated
laboratories primarily on the basis of service capability and quality as well
as other non-pricing factors. Our failure to provide service superior to
hospital-affiliated laboratories and other laboratories could have a material
adverse effect on our net revenues and profitability. In addition, recent
market activity, including actions by payers to exclude large national clinical
laboratories from contracts, may enhance the relative competitive position of
regional laboratories.

The
diagnostic testing industry is faced with changing technology and new product
introductions. Advances in technology may lead to the development of more
cost-effective tests that can be performed outside of a commercial clinical
laboratory such as (1) point-of-care tests that can be performed by physicians
in their offices; (2) complex tests that can be performed by hospitals in their
own laboratories; and (3) home testing that can be carried out without
requiring the services of clinical laboratories. Development of such technology
and its use by our customers and patients would reduce the demand for our
laboratory testing services and negatively impact our net revenues. However, as
a result of our point-of-care test strategy, we believe that we are well
positioned to service this market for physicians and hospitals. We also believe
that our overall point-of-care test strategy will strengthen our relationship
with our customers by enabling us to offer more solutions that improve their
effectiveness and the care of their patients by enabling faster diagnosis and
treatment.

The
diagnostic product market is highly competitive. We have many competitors, some
of which have much more extensive experience in this market and some of which
have greater resources than our Company. We compete in this area by attempting
to find and exploit unique differentiated products, including products that
take advantage of our healthcare information technology solutions. There is no
guarantee that we will be able to compete successfully in this market.

Employees.

At December 31, 2007, we
employed approximately 43,500 people. This total excludes employees of the
joint ventures where we do not have a majority interest. We have no collective
bargaining agreements with any unions covering any employees in the United
States, and we believe that our overall relations with our employees are good.

BILLING AND REIMBURSEMENT

Billing.

We generally bill for clinical
testing services on a fee-for-service basis under one of two fee schedules.
These fees are generally subject to negotiation with or discounted to
non-governmental payers. The fee schedules are:

•

“Client”
 fees charged to physicians, hospitals, and institutions for which a clinical
 laboratory performs testing services on a wholesale basis and which are
 billed on a monthly basis.

•

“Patient”
 fees charged to individual patients and third-party payers, like Medicare and
 Medicaid.

Billing
for clinical testing services is very complicated, so we have compliance policies
and procedures that increase our billing costs. Patients, insurance companies,
Medicare, Medicaid, physicians, hospitals and employer groups all have
different billing requirements. Billing arrangements require us to bill various
    payers. We incur additional costs as a result of our participation in Medicare
    and Medicaid programs because clinical laboratory testing and anatomic pathology
    services are subject to complex, stringent and frequently ambiguous federal
    and state laws and regulations, including those relating to billing and reimbursement.
These regulatory requirements increase costs related to: (1) the complexity of
our billing processes; (2) training and education of our employees and
customers; (3) compliance and legal costs; and (4) costs related to, among
other factors, medical necessity denials and advance beneficiary notices.
Changes in laws and regulations could further complicate our billing and
increase our billing expense. CMS establishes procedures and continuously evaluates
    and implements changes to the reimbursement process. Other factors that complicate
billing include:

•

differences
 between our fee schedules and the reimbursement rates of the payers;

•

disparity in
 coverage and information requirements among various payers;


In
2007, our bad debt expense was 4.5% of our net revenues. We believe that most
of our bad debt expense is primarily the result of missing or incorrect billing
information on requisitions received from healthcare providers and the failure
of patients to pay the portion of the receivable that is their responsibility,
rather than credit related issues. In general, we perform the requested tests
and report test results regardless of whether the billing information is
incorrect or missing. We subsequently attempt to contact the healthcare
provider or patient to obtain any missing information and to rectify incorrect
billing information. Missing or incorrect information on requisitions
complicates and slows down the billing process, creates backlogs of unbilled
requisitions and generally increases the aging of accounts receivable and bad
debt expense. The increased use of electronic ordering reduces the incidence of
missing or incorrect information.

Billing
      Compliance.

As an integral part of
our billing compliance program, we investigate reported failures or suspected
failures to comply with federal and state healthcare reimbursement
requirements. Any Medicare or Medicaid overpayments resulting from non-compliance
      are reimbursed by us.
      As a result of these efforts, we have periodically identified and reported
      overpayments, reimbursed the overpayments and taken appropriate corrective
      action.

Penalties
for violations of laws relating to billing federal healthcare programs and for
violations of federal and state fraud and abuse laws include: (1) exclusion
from participation in Medicare/Medicaid programs; (2) asset forfeitures; (3)
civil and criminal fines and penalties; and (4) the loss of various licenses,
certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our business. Civil
monetary penalties for a wide range of violations are not more than $10,000 per
violation plus three times the amount claimed and, in the case of kickback
violations, not more than $50,000 per violation plus up to three times the amount
of remuneration involved. A parallel civil remedy under the federal False
Claims Act provides for damages not more than $11,000 per violation plus up to
three times the amount claimed.

Government Reimbursements.

The healthcare
industry has experienced significant changes in reimbursement practices during
the past several years. Government payers, such as Medicare and Medicaid, have
taken steps and may continue to take steps to control the cost, utilization and
delivery of healthcare services, including clinical test services. With regard
to the clinical test services performed on behalf of Medicare beneficiaries, we
must bill the Medicare program directly and must accept the carrier’s fee
schedule amount as payment in full. In addition, state Medicaid programs are
prohibited from paying more (and in most instances, pay significantly less)
than Medicare. Currently, Medicare does not require the beneficiary to pay a
co-payment for clinical laboratory testing. Certain Medicaid programs require
Medicaid recipients to pay co-payment amounts for clinical laboratory testing.
Medicare patients generally are required to make co-payments for anatomic
pathology services.

Federal
law contains a Medicare fee schedule payment methodology for clinical testing
    services performed for patients covered under Part B of the Medicare program,
    and a national ceiling on the amount that carriers could pay under their
    local Medicare fee schedules. Federal law also contains a Medicare fee schedule
payment methodology for pathology and other physician services performed for
patients covered under Part B of the Medicare program. These laws are
periodically adjusted, but an adjustment to the national fee schedule for
clinical testing services based on the consumer price index cannot occur before
January 1, 2009. In December 2007, Congress changed the national physician fee
schedule, replacing the scheduled 10% cut to the physician fee reimbursement
rate with a 0.5% increase through June 30, 2008 and maintaining through June
    30, 2008 the ability of independent clinical laboratories to bill Medicare
    directly for the technical component of certain pathology services provided
    to hospitals. We expect that Congress will take up the issue of the fee schedules
    again in 2008, and we cannot predict whether they will change. If Medicare
    fee schedules are reduced, or if independent clinical laboratories are prohibited
    from billing Medicare directly for the technical component of pathology services
    provided to hospitals, it could have a material adverse effect on our business.

Average
Medicare reimbursement is not materially different than our overall average
reimbursement rate from other third party fee for service payers. Despite the
added cost and complexity of participating in the Medicare and Medicaid
programs, we continue to participate in such programs because we believe that
our other business may depend, in part, on continued participation in these
programs, since certain customers may want a single laboratory capable of
performing all of their clinical testing services, regardless of who pays for
such services.

We
are generally permitted to bill Medicare beneficiaries directly for statutorily
excluded clinical testing services. An advance beneficiary notice (“ABN”)
is a notice signed by the beneficiary which documents the patient’s informed
    decision to personally assume financial liability for clinical tests which
    are likely to be denied and not reimbursed by Medicare because they are deemed
    to be not medically necessary (these tests include limited coverage tests
    for which the ordering physician did not provide an appropriate diagnosis
    code and certain tests ordered on a patient at a frequency greater than covered
    by Medicare). If a Medicare beneficiary signs an ABN, we are also generally
    permitted to bill the


beneficiary
for clinical tests that Medicare does not cover due to “medical necessity”
limitations. We do not have any direct contact with most of these patients and,
in such cases, cannot control the proper use of the ABN by the physician or the
physician’s office staff, who must obtain the ABN on our behalf. If the
ABN is not timely provided to the beneficiary or is not completed properly, we
may end up performing tests that we cannot subsequently bill to the patient if
payment is denied by Medicare due to coverage limitations. CMS is currently considering
potential changes to rules regarding ABN’s that may effectively increase
the number of tests that we cannot subsequently bill to the patient.

Clinical
laboratories that bill Medicare or Medicaid could be excluded from
participation in any federal healthcare programs if it is determined that they
have submitted bills or requests from payment for items or services
substantially in excess of the laboratory’s usual charges for such items
or services without good cause. The Department of Health and Human Services Office
of Inspector General has periodically proposed to define the terms “substantially
in excess” and “usual
charges,” but has not done so.

CMS
is permitted to adjust statutorily prescribed fees for clinical test services
if the standard rules by which those payments are calculated will result in
fees that are “grossly excessive.” CMS rules set forth a process and factors
for establishing a “realistic and equitable” payment amount for clinical test
services under Medicare Part B (and services paid under a prospective payment
system) if existing payment amounts are determined to be inherently
unreasonable; payment amounts may be considered unreasonable if they are either
grossly excessive or deficient. Under CMS rules, if CMS or a carrier determines
that an overall payment adjustment of less than 15% is needed to produce a
realistic and equitable payment amount, then the payment amount is not
considered “grossly excessive or deficient.” However, if a determination is
made that a payment adjustment of 15% or more is justified, CMS could provide
an adjustment of less than 15%, but not more than 15%, in any given year. Fees
payable by Medicare could be reduced prospectively as a result of the
application of these rules.

Historically,
most Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries were covered under the traditional
Medicare and Medicaid programs directly administered by the federal government.
Over the last several years, the federal government has sponsored programs to
expand private health insurance options for Medicare beneficiaries and has
encouraged such beneficiaries to switch from the traditional programs to the
private programs, called “Medicare Advantage” programs. There has been rapid
growth of health insurance plans offering Medicare Advantage programs and of
beneficiary enrollment in these plans. In recent years, in an effort to control
costs, states also have increasingly mandated that Medicaid beneficiaries
enroll in private managed care arrangements. If these efforts continue to be
successful, we may experience a further shift of traditional Medicare and
Medicaid beneficiaries to private health insurance options.

Reduced Utilization of Clinical Testing.

Government payers, such as Medicare and Medicaid, have taken steps and may
continue to take steps to control the utilization and delivery of healthcare
services, including clinical test services. Medicare carriers have adopted
policies under which they do not pay for many commonly ordered clinical tests
unless the ordering physician has provided an appropriate diagnosis code
supporting the medical necessity of the test. Physicians are required by law to
provide diagnostic information when they order clinical tests for Medicare and
Medicaid patients.

Medicare Administrative Contractors.

Historically, many different local intermediaries administered Medicare Part A
and many different local carriers administered Medicare Part B (which covers
services provide by independent clinical laboratories). Carriers often had
inconsistent policies on matters such as: (1) test coverage; (2) automated
chemistry panels; (3) diagnosis coding; (4) claims documentation; and (5) fee
schedules (subject to the national fee schedule limitations). Inconsistent
carrier rules and policies increase the complexity of the billing process for
clinical laboratories. Federal law requires Medicare contracting reform. All
historic intermediaries and carriers are being replaced, using a competitive
bidding process, with Medicare Administrative Contractors who will handle both
Part A and Part B. Approximately one half of the Medicare Administrative
Contractors have been selected. It is expected that the revised system, when
completed, will reduce the administrative complexity of billing for services
provided to Medicare beneficiaries.

Competitive
      Bidding.

CMS
    is required to conduct a demonstration project to determine whether competitive
    bidding can be used to provide clinical testing services for Medicare beneficiaries
    at fees below current Medicare payment rates while maintaining quality and
    access to care. CMS will conduct two separate demonstrations in isolated
    markets. The first will be conducted in the Metropolitan Statistical Area
    composed of the San Diego-Carlsbad-San Marcos, California area beginning
    in 2008. Under a plan announced by CMS in December 2007, bids were due February
    15, 2008, winners will be selected in April 2008 and the pilot will begin
    July 1, 2008. CMS has not yet identified the site of the second competitive
bidding demonstration project.

The
industry remains concerned about the general lack of responsiveness by CMS to
industry concerns and questions regarding the demonstration project and
continues discussing with members of Congress and Committee staffs industry
concerns regarding quality, patient access and CMS’ flawed implementation of
the demonstration project. We believe that clinical testing services are not
commodities and that the quality of services and access to those services could
be adversely impacted by implementation of competitive bidding. In an effort to
delay or stop the demonstration project,


the Company,
other industry participants and several professional societies are supporting
    a complaint filed in the United States District Court for the
Southern District of California in January 2008 on behalf of three local
laboratories.

President
Bush recently proposed a fiscal 2009 federal budget that includes savings of
approximately $2.4 billion over five years by establishing competitive bidding
for clinical laboratory services provided to Medicare beneficiaries. If
competitive bidding were implemented on a regional or national basis for
clinical testing, it could materially adversely affect the clinical testing
industry and us.

REGULATION

The
Company’s business is subject to or impacted by extensive and frequently
changing laws and regulations, including inspections and audits by governmental
agencies, in the United States (including at both the federal and state levels)
and the other jurisdictions in which the Company engages in business. We also
must comply with other laws and regulations, including in the United States and
in the other jurisdictions in which we engage in business, that apply to
conducting business generally (e.g., the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and
similar laws of other jurisdictions). Set forth below are highlights of the key
regulatory schemes applicable to the Company’s business.

CLIA
      and State Clinical Laboratory Licensing Regulations.

All of our laboratories
      and, where applicable, patient service centers are licensed and accredited
      by the appropriate federal and state agencies. The Clinical Laboratories
      Improvement Amendments of 1988 (“CLIA”) regulates virtually
      all clinical laboratories by requiring that they be certified by the federal
      government and comply with various operational, personnel and quality requirements
intended to ensure that the services provided are accurate, reliable and
timely. The cost of compliance with CLIA makes it cost prohibitive for
many physicians to operate clinical laboratories in their offices. However,
manufacturers of laboratory equipment and test kits could seek to increase
their sales by marketing point-of-care test equipment to physicians and
by selling to both physicians and patients test kits approved by the FDA
for home use. Diagnostic tests approved or cleared by the FDA for home
use are automatically deemed to be “waived” tests under CLIA
      and may be performed in physician office laboratories with minimal regulatory
      oversight under CLIA as well as by patients in their homes.

CLIA
does not preempt state laws that are more stringent than federal law. State
laws may require additional personnel qualifications, quality control, record
maintenance and/or proficiency testing. State laws also may require detailed
review of our scientific validations and technical procedures for each test
before approval for use or marketing of services.

Fraud and Abuse Rules.

Federal
anti-kickback laws and regulations prohibit making payments or furnishing other
benefits to influence the referral of tests billed to Medicare, Medicaid or
certain other federal healthcare programs. The penalties for violation of these
laws and regulations may include monetary fines, criminal and civil penalties
and/or suspension or exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and
other federal healthcare programs. Several states have similar laws.

In
addition, federal and state anti-self-referral laws generally prohibit Medicare
and Medicaid payments for clinical tests referred by physicians who have a
personal investment in, or a compensation arrangement with, the testing
laboratory. Many states have similar anti-self-referral and other laws that are
not limited to Medicare and Medicaid referrals and could also affect investment
and compensation arrangements with physicians.

Under
federal regulations implementing safe harbors to the federal anti-kickback laws
and exceptions to the federal anti-self-referral laws, certain donors (but not
laboratories) may provide e-prescribing items and services to referral sources
at no charge, and a broader range of donors (including laboratories) may
provide a broader range of electronic health records information technology
software and services (including e-prescribing) conditioned on the recipient’s
payment of at least fifteen percent (15%) of the cost of the donated software
and services and compliance with other conditions.

Drug
      Testing.

The Substance Abuse and
Mental Health Services Administration (“SAMHSA”) regulates drug
testing for public sector employees and employees of certain federally regulated
businesses. All laboratories that perform such testing must be certified as
meeting SAMHSA’s detailed performance and quality standards. All of our
laboratories that perform such testing are so certified.

Controlled
      Substances.

The federal Drug
Enforcement Administration (“DEA”) regulates access to controlled
substances used to perform drugs-of-abuse testing in the United States. To obtain
access to controlled substances, laboratories must be licensed by the DEA. All
of our laboratories in the United States that use controlled substances are licensed
by the DEA.

Medical Waste, Hazardous Waste and Radioactive
Materials.

Clinical laboratories in the United States are subject to
federal, state and local regulations relating to the handling and disposal of
regulated medical waste, hazardous waste and radioactive materials. We
generally use outside vendors to dispose of such waste and contractually
require


them to comply
with applicable laws and regulations.

FDA.

The FDA has regulatory responsibility
over instruments, test kits, reagents and other devices used to perform
diagnostic testing by clinical laboratories in the United States. The FDA also
regulates testing that we perform for clinical trials, drugs-of-abuse testing
for employers, testing for blood bank purposes and testing of donors of human
cells for purposes such as

in vitro

fertilization. In the past, the
FDA has claimed regulatory authority over all laboratory-developed tests, but
it has stated that it is exercising enforcement discretion in not regulating
most laboratory-developed tests performed by high complexity CLIA-certified
laboratories. However, the FDA may be changing its stance regarding a subset of
laboratory-developed tests. The FDA has issued a guidance document, still in
draft form, describing certain laboratory-developed tests that FDA calls “In
Vitro Diagnostic Multivariate Index Assays” that the FDA may regulate as
medical devices. If the FDA regulates these tests as medical devices it can
impose extensive requirements on them and the laboratories that offer this
subset of laboratory-developed tests. Many of the esoteric tests that we
develop internally are first offered as laboratory-developed tests. FDA
regulation of a subset of laboratory-developed tests or increased regulation of
the various medical devices used in laboratory-developed testing would lead to
increased regulatory burden and additional costs and delays in introducing new
tests, including genetic tests, and may prevent us from marketing certain new
products or services. The FDA also recently finalized a guidance document
relating to Analyte Specific Reagents which could restrict laboratory access to
certain products now available or increase the costs of those products if, in
response to its adoption, manufacturers voluntarily withdraw their products
from the market.

Our
diagnostic product business is subject to regulation by the FDA, as well as by
foreign governmental agencies, including countries within the European Union
who have adopted the Directive on In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices (“IVDD”).
These agencies enforce laws and regulations that govern the development,
testing, manufacturing, labeling, advertising, marketing, distribution and
market surveillance of diagnostic products. Prior to marketing or selling most
diagnostic products, currently we are required to secure clearance or approval
from the FDA and (when appropriate) counterpart non-U.S. regulatory agencies,
although the IVDD allows us to market in Europe many products using a process
in which the manufacturer certifies that the device conforms to the regulatory
and quality requirements for the device. Following the introduction of a
diagnostic product into the market, the FDA and non-U.S. agencies engage in
periodic reviews of the manufacturing processes and product performance.
Compliance with these regulatory controls can affect the time and cost
associated with the development, introduction and continued availability of new
products. These agencies possess the authority to take various administrative
and legal actions against us, such as fines, product suspensions, submission of
warning letters, recalls, product seizures, injunctions and other civil and
criminal sanctions. Where appropriate, voluntary compliance actions, such as voluntary
recalls, may be undertaken.

Occupational
      Safety.

The federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration (“OSHA”) has established
extensive requirements relating specifically to workplace safety for healthcare
employers in the United States. This includes requirements to develop and
implement multi-faceted programs to protect workers from exposure to
blood-borne pathogens, such as HIV and hepatitis B and C, including preventing
or minimizing any exposure through sharps or needle stick injuries.

Transportation.

For purposes of
transportation, most clinical laboratory specimens and some laboratory supplies
are considered hazardous materials subject to regulation by the Department of
Transportation, the Public Health Service, the United States Postal Service and
the International Air Transport Association.

Corporate Practice of Medicine.

Many
states, including some in which our businesses are located, prohibit business
corporations from engaging in the practice of medicine. In certain states,
business corporations are prohibited from employing licensed healthcare
professionals to provide services on behalf of the corporation; these rules
vary from state to state. The manner in which licensed physicians can be
organized to perform medical services may be governed by the laws of the state
in which medical services are provided and by the medical boards or other
entities authorized by these states to oversee the practice of medicine. In
some states, anatomic pathology services are delivered through physician-owned
entities that employ the practicing pathologists.

Contracts and Relationships with Physicians.

In our anatomic pathology business, we employ pathologists. Many of our
pathologists enter into an employment agreement. These agreements have varying
terms, but generally can be terminated at any time, upon advance notice. Most
of the agreements contain covenants generally limiting the activities of the
pathologist within a defined geographic area for a limited period of time after
termination of employment. The agreements may be subject to limitations under
state law that may limit the enforceability of these covenants.

Our
pathologists are required to hold a valid license to practice medicine in the
jurisdiction in which they practice. If they provide inpatient services, they
must become a member of the medical staff at the relevant hospital, with
privileges in pathology.

Fee-Splitting.

Some states restrict the
splitting or sharing of fees between physicians and non-physicians. These laws
may apply to some of the arrangements that we have with pathologists; the laws
vary from state to state.


Privacy and Security of Health Information; Standard
Transactions.

Pursuant to the Health Insurance Portability and
Accountability Act (HIPAA), federal regulators have issued regulations
regarding protecting the privacy and security of certain healthcare information
and standards for electronic healthcare transactions in the United States.

The
privacy regulations establish comprehensive federal standards regarding the
uses and disclosures of protected health information by health plans,
healthcare providers and healthcare clearinghouses. The regulations establish a
complex regulatory framework on a variety of subjects, including:

We
have implemented practices to meet the requirements of the HIPAA privacy
regulations, which restrict our ability to use or disclose patient-identifiable
healthcare information without patient authorization, for purposes other than
payment, treatment or healthcare operations (as defined by HIPAA), except for
disclosures for various public policy purposes and other permitted purposes. We
also must comply with more stringent state laws, where such laws exist. In
addition, for healthcare data transfers relating to citizens of other
countries, we need to comply with the laws of those other countries.

The
HIPAA security regulations establish requirements for safeguarding electronic
patient information. We have implemented policies and standards to comply with
these regulations. The HIPAA electronic transactions regulations establish
uniform standards for electronic transactions and code sets, including the
electronic transactions and code sets used for billing claims, remittance
advices, enrollment and eligibility. We have completed conversion to the
required standard format for our electronic fee-for-service claim transactions
and our electronic fee-for-service remittance transactions.

HIPAA
regulations on adoption of national provider identifiers require healthcare
providers to adopt new, unique identifiers for reporting on claims
transactions. We are completing compliance with these regulations by obtaining
the required information from our physician clients, and expect that the
process will continue through 2008.

Compliance.

We seek to conduct our business
in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. Many of the laws and
regulations applicable to us, however, including those relating to billing and
reimbursement of tests and those relating to relationships with physicians and
hospitals, are vague or indefinite and have not been interpreted by the courts.
They may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial
authority in a manner that could require us to make changes in our operations,
including our pricing and/or billing practices. The applicability or
interpretation of laws and regulations also may not be clear in light of
emerging changes in clinical testing science and healthcare technology. Such
occurrences, regardless of their outcome, could, among other things:

If
we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil
and criminal penalties, fines, exclusion from participation in governmental
healthcare programs and the loss of various licenses, certificates and
authorizations necessary to operate our business, as well as incur additional
liabilities from third party claims, all of which could have a material adverse
effect on our business. Certain federal and state statues, regulations and
other laws, including the

qui tam

provisions of the federal False
Claims Act, allow private individuals to bring lawsuits against healthcare
companies on behalf of government payers, private payers and/or patients
alleging inappropriate billing practices.

The
federal or state governments may bring claims based on theories as to our
current practices that we believe are lawful. The federal government has
substantial leverage in negotiating settlements since the amount of potential
damages far exceeds the rates at which we are reimbursed, and the government
has the remedy of excluding a non-


compliant
provider from participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs, which
represented approximately 17% of our net revenues during 2007. We believe that,
based on our experience with government settlements and public announcements
    by various government officials, the federal government continues to strengthen
its position on health fraud. In addition, legislative provisions relating to
health fraud and abuse give federal enforcement personnel substantially
increased funding, powers and remedies to pursue suspected cases of fraud and
abuse.

We
have a long-standing and well-established compliance program. The Quality,
Safety & Compliance Committee of our Board of Directors oversees our
compliance program and requires periodic management reports regarding our
compliance program. Our program emphasizes the development of training programs
intended to ensure the strict implementation and observance of all applicable
laws, regulations and Company policies. Further, we conduct in-depth reviews of
procedures and facilities to assure regulatory compliance throughout our
operations. We conduct annual training of our employees on these compliance
policies and procedures.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

We
file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other
information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). You may read and
copy any document that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s public reference room
at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Please call the SEC at
1-800-SEC-0330 for information regarding the public reference room. The SEC
maintains an internet site that contains annual, quarterly and current reports,
proxy and information statements and other information that issuers (including
Quest Diagnostics) file electronically with the SEC. Our electronic SEC filings
are available to the public at the SEC’s internet site, www.sec.gov.

Our
internet site is www.questdiagnostics.com. You can access Quest Diagnostics’
Investor Relations webpage at www.questdiagnostics.com/investor. We make
available free of charge, on or through our Investor Relations webpage, our
Company’s proxy statements, Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports
on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports
filed or furnished pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended
(the “Exchange Act”), as soon as reasonably practical after such material
is filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. We also make available, through our
Investor Relations webpage, statements of beneficial ownership of our equity
securities filed by our directors, officers, 10% or greater shareholders and
others under Section 16 of the Exchange Act.

We
have a corporate governance webpage. You can access information regarding our
corporate governance at www.questdiagnostics.com/governance. We post the
following on our corporate governance webpage:

You
can request a copy of these documents, including exhibits, at no cost, by
contacting Investor Relations, 3 Giralda Farms, Madison, New Jersey 07940
(973-520-2700). The information on our website is not incorporated by reference
into this Report.

Item 1A. Risk Factors

You
should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this Report,
including the following risk factors, before deciding to invest in any of our
securities. The risks below are not the only ones that we face. Additional
risks not presently known to us, or that we presently deem immaterial, may also
negatively impact us. Our business, financial condition, results of operations
or cash flows could be materially impacted by any of these factors.

This
Report also includes forward-looking statements that involve risks or
uncertainties. Our results could differ materially from those anticipated in
these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the
risks we face described below and elsewhere. See “Cautionary Factors that
May Affect Future Results” on page 27.


The clinical testing business is highly
competitive, and if we fail to provide an appropriately priced level of service
or otherwise fail to compete effectively it could have a material adverse
effect on our net revenues and profitability.

While
there has been significant consolidation in recent years in the clinical
testing business, it remains a fragmented and highly competitive industry.

We
primarily compete with three types of clinical test providers: hospital-affiliated laboratories, other
independent clinical laboratories and physician-office laboratories. We also compete with anatomic pathology
practices and large physician group practices.
Hospitals generally maintain on-site laboratories to perform testing on
their patients (inpatient or outpatient).
In addition, many hospitals compete with independent clinical
laboratories for outreach (non-hospital patients) testing. Most physicians have
admitting privileges or other relationships with hospitals as part of their
medical practice and hospitals may seek to leverage their relationships with
community physicians and encourage the physicians to send their outreach
testing to the hospital’s laboratory. In addition, hospitals that own physician
practices generally require the physicians to refer tests to the hospital’s
laboratory. As a result of this affiliation between hospitals and community
physicians, we compete against hospital-affiliated laboratories primarily based
on quality of service. Our failure to
provide a broad test menu or service superior to hospital-affiliated
laboratories and other laboratories could have a material adverse effect on our
business.

If
we fail to compete effectively, our business could be adversely affected and
our net revenues and profitability could be damaged.

Government payers, such as Medicare and
Medicaid, have taken steps to control the utilization and pricing of healthcare
services, including clinical test services.

We
face efforts by government payers to reduce utilization and pricing for
clinical testing services.

From
time to time, Congress has legislated reductions in, or frozen updates to, the
Medicare Clinical Laboratory Fee Schedule.
In addition, CMS has adopted policies limiting or excluding coverage for
clinical tests that we perform. We also
are subject to Congressional mandates, such as a mandate for Medicare to
conduct a demonstration project to determine whether competitive bidding for clinical
test services can reduce costs without adversely impacting quality and
beneficiary access to services. We also
provide physician services which are reimbursed by Medicare under a physician
fee schedule, which is subject to adjustment on an annual basis. CMS changes add to our costs by increasing
complexity and administrative requirements.
Medicaid reimbursement varies by state and is subject to administrative
and billing requirements and budget pressures.

In
addition, over the last several years, the federal government has sponsored
programs to expand private health insurance programs for Medicare
beneficiaries, called “Medicare Advantage” programs, and has encouraged such
beneficiaries to switch from the traditional programs to the private programs. There has been rapid growth of health
insurance plans offering Medicare Advantage programs, and of beneficiary
enrollment in these programs. Also in
recent years, states have increasingly mandated that Medicaid
beneficiaries enroll in private managed care arrangements. If these efforts continue to be successful,
we may experience a further shift of traditional Medicare and Medicaid
beneficiaries to private health insurance options.

We
expect efforts to reduce reimbursements, to impose more stringent cost controls
and to reduce utilization of clinical test services will continue. These
efforts, including changes in law or regulations, may have a material adverse
impact on our business.

Healthcare insurers have taken steps to
control the utilization and pricing of healthcare services, including clinical
test services.

We
also face efforts by non-governmental third party payers, including healthcare
insurance plans, to reduce utilization and pricing for clinical testing
services.

The
healthcare industry has experienced a trend of consolidation among healthcare
insurance plans, resulting in fewer but larger insurance plans with significant
bargaining power to negotiate fee arrangements with healthcare providers,
including clinical laboratories. These
healthcare insurance plans, and independent physician associations, may demand
that clinical laboratories accept discounted fee structures or assume all or a
portion of the financial risk associated with providing testing services to
their members through capitated payment arrangements. In addition, some healthcare insurance plans have been willing to
limit the PPO or POS laboratory network to only a single national laboratory to
obtain improved fee-for-service pricing.
There are also more patients in consumer driven products and high
deductible plans that involve greater patient cost-sharing.


The
increased consolidation among healthcare insurers also has increased the
potential risk of ceasing to be a contracted provider with any such insurer.

We
expect efforts to reduce reimbursements, to impose more stringent cost controls
and to reduce utilization of clinical test services will continue. These
efforts, including future changes in third-party payer rules, practices and
policies, or ceasing to be a contracted provider to a healthcare insurer, may
have a material adverse effect on our business.

Business
development activities are inherently risky, and integrating our operations
with businesses we acquire may be difficult and, if unsuccessfully executed, may
have a material adverse effect on our business.

We
plan selectively to enhance our business from time to time through business
development activities, such as strategic acquisitions, licensing, investments
and alliances. However, these enhancement plans are subject to the availability
of appropriate opportunities and competition from other companies seeking
similar opportunities. Moreover, the success of any such effort may be affected
by a number of factors, including our ability to properly assess and value the
potential business opportunity, and to integrate it into our business. The
success of our strategic alliances depends not only on our contributions and
capabilities, but also on the property, resources, efforts and skills
contributed by our strategic partners. Further, disputes may arise with
strategic partners, due to conflicting priorities or conflicts of interests.

Each
acquisition involves the integration of a separate company that previously
operated independently and has different systems, processes and cultures. Integration
of acquisitions involves a number of risks including the diversion of
management’s attention to the assimilation of the operations of businesses we
have acquired, difficulties in the integration of operations and systems and
the realization of potential operating synergies, the assimilation and
retention of the personnel of the acquired companies, challenges in retaining
the customers of the combined businesses, and potential adverse effects on
operating results. The process of combining companies may be disruptive to both
of our businesses and may cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in,
such businesses as a result of the following difficulties, among others:

In
addition, integration of clinical testing companies is further complicated
because most clinical testing is performed under arrangements that are
terminable at will or on short notice. Thus, an acquisition may result in a
customer’s decision to stop using us for clinical testing.

If
we are unable successfully to integrate strategic acquisitions in a timely
manner, our business and our growth strategies could be negatively affected.
    Even if we are able to successfully complete the integration of the operations
    of other companies or businesses we may acquire in the future, we may not
    be able to realize all or any of the benefits that we expect to result from
    such integration, either in monetary terms or a timely manner.

Our business could be
negatively affected if we are unable successfully to continue to improve our
efficiency.

As
noted above, government payers and healthcare insurers have taken steps to
control the utilization and pricing of healthcare services, including clinical
testing services, and such steps may continue. If we are unable to continue to
improve our efficiency to enable us to mitigate these activities, our business
could be negatively affected.

Adverse
resolution of the investigation related to NID may cause us material losses and have an adverse impact on our client
base and reputation.

NID
and the Company each received a subpoena from the United States Attorney’s
Office for the Eastern District of New York during the fourth quarter of 2004.
The subpoenas requested a wide range of business records, including documents
regarding parathyroid hormone (“PTH”) test kits manufactured by NID and PTH
testing performed by the Company. The Company has voluntarily and actively
cooperated with the investigation, providing information, witnesses and
business records of NID and the Company, including documents related to PTH
tests and test kits, as well as other tests and test kits. In the second and
third quarters of 2005, the FDA conducted an inspection of NID and issued a
Form 483 listing the observations made by the FDA during the course of the
inspection. NID responded to the Form 483.


During
the third quarter of 2007, the government and the Company began settlement
discussions. In the course of those discussions, the government has disclosed
to the Company certain of the government’s legal theories regarding the amount
of damages allegedly incurred by the government, which include alleged
violations of civil and criminal statutes including the False Claims Act and
the Food, Drug and Cosmetics Act. Violations of these statutes and related
regulations could lead to a warning letter, injunction, fines or penalties,
exclusion from federal health care programs and/or criminal prosecution, as
well as claims by third parties. The Company has analyzed the government’s
position and presented its own analysis which argued against many of the
government’s claims. In light of that analysis and based on the status of settlement
discussions, the Company has established a reserve, in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles, reflected in discontinued operations, of $241 million in connection with these
claims. Of the total reserve, $51 million and $190 million was recorded in the
third and fourth quarters, respectively, of 2007. The Company estimates that
the amount reserved represents the minimum expected probable loss with respect
to this matter. The Company does not believe that a reasonable estimate for
these losses in excess of the established reserve can be made at this time. The
Company has recorded a deferred tax benefit associated with that portion of the
reserve that it expects will be tax deductible. Eventual losses
related to these matters may substantially exceed the reserve, and the impact
could be material to the Company’s results of operations, cash flows and
financial condition in the period that such matters are determined or paid.

The
Company continues to engage in discussions with the United States Attorney’s
Office and those discussions potentially could lead to an agreement in
principle to resolve some or all of the matters in the near future. There can
be no assurance, however, when or whether a settlement may be reached, or as to
its terms. If the Company cannot reach an acceptable settlement agreement with
the United States Attorney’s Office, the Company would defend itself and NID
and could incur significant costs in doing so.

We are subject to numerous legal and regulatory requirements
governing our activities, and we may face substantial fines and penalties, and
our business activities may be impacted, if we fail to comply.

The
Company’s business is subject to or impacted by extensive and frequently
changing laws and regulations in the United States (including at both the federal
and state levels), and the other jurisdictions in which the Company engages in
business. While we seek to conduct our business in compliance with all
applicable laws, many of the laws and regulations applicable to us are vague or
indefinite and have not been interpreted by the courts, including those
relating to:

These
laws and regulations may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial,
regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require us to make
changes in our operations, including our pricing and/or billing practices. We
may not be able to maintain, renew or secure required permits, licenses or any
other regulatory approvals needed for the operation of our business. If we fail
to comply with applicable laws and regulations, or if we fail to maintain,
renew or obtain necessary permits and licenses, we could suffer civil and
criminal penalties, fines, exclusion from participation in governmental
healthcare programs and the loss of various licenses, certificates and
authorizations necessary to operate our business, as well as incur additional
liabilities from third party claims. If any of the foregoing were to occur, our
reputation could be damaged, important business relationships with third
parties could be adversely affected and it could have a material adverse effect
on our business.

We
regularly receive requests for information, and occasionally subpoenas, from
governmental authorities. We also are subject from time to time to qui tam
claims brought by former employees or other “whistle blowers.” The federal
government continues to strengthen its position and scrutiny over healthcare
fraud. In addition, legislative provisions


relating to healthcare fraud and abuse give federal
enforcement personnel substantially increased funding, powers and remedies to
pursue suspected fraud and abuse. The federal government has substantial
leverage in negotiating settlements since the amount of potential damages far
exceeds the rates at which we are reimbursed for our products and services, and
the government has the remedy of excluding a non-compliant provider from
participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs, which represented
approximately 17% of our consolidated net revenues for the year ended December
31, 2007. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, these types of
investigations and related litigation can result in:

Although
we believe that we are in compliance, in all material respects, with applicable
laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that a regulatory agency or
tribunal would not reach a different conclusion. Any noncompliance by us with
applicable laws and regulations could have a material adverse impact on our
results of operations. Moreover, even when an investigation is resolved
favorably, the process may be time consuming and the legal costs and diversion
of management focus may be extensive.

Changes
in applicable laws and regulations may result in existing practices becoming
more restricted, or subject our existing or proposed services and products to additional
costs, delay, modification, withdrawal or reconsideration. Such changes could
require us to modify our business objectives and could have a material adverse
impact on the Company’s business.

Failure
to timely or accurately bill for our services could have a material adverse
effect on our business.

Billing
for clinical test services is extremely complicated and is subject to extensive
and non-uniform rules and administrative requirements. Depending on the billing
arrangement and applicable law, we bill various payers, such as patients,
insurance companies, Medicare, Medicaid, physicians, hospitals and employer
groups. Changes in laws and regulations could increase the complexity and cost
of our billing process. Additionally, auditing for compliance with applicable
laws and regulations as well as internal compliance policies and procedures
adds further cost and complexity to the billing process. Further, our billing
systems require significant technology investment and, as a result of
marketplace demands, we need to continually invest in our billing systems.

Missing
or incorrect information on requisitions adds complexity to and slows the
billing process, creates backlogs of unbilled requisitions, and generally
increases the aging of accounts receivable and bad debt expense. We believe
that much of our bad debt expense in recent years is attributable to the lack
of, or inaccurate, billing information. Failure to timely or correctly bill may
lead to our not being reimbursed for our services or an increase in the aging
of our accounts receivable, which could adversely affect our results of
operations and cash flows. Failure to comply with applicable laws relating to
billing federal healthcare programs could lead to various penalties, including (1)
exclusion from participation in Medicare/Medicaid programs; (2) asset
forfeitures; (3) civil and criminal fines and penalties; and (4) the loss of
various licenses, certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our
business, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of
operations or cash flows.

Failure
in our information technology systems, including failures resulting from our
systems conversions, could disrupt our operations and cause the loss of
customers or business opportunities.

Information
technology (IT) systems are used extensively in virtually all aspects of our
business, including clinical testing, test reporting, billing, customer
service, logistics and management of medical data. Our success depends, in
part, on the continued and uninterrupted performance of our IT systems. IT
systems may be vulnerable to damage from a variety of sources, including
telecommunications or network failures, human acts and natural disasters.
Moreover, despite the security measures we have implemented, our IT systems may
be subject to physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses and similar
disruptive problems. We also have taken precautionary measures to prevent
unanticipated problems that could affect our IT systems. Nevertheless, we may
experience damages to our systems, and system failures and interruptions.

In
addition, we are in the process of implementing standard laboratory information
and billing systems, which we expect will take several years to complete. Failure
to properly implement this standardization process could materially adversely
affect our business. During system conversions of this type, workflow is
re-engineered to take advantage of best practices and enhanced system
capabilities, which may cause temporary disruptions in service. In addition,
the


implementation process, including the transfer of
databases and master files to new data centers, presents significant conversion
risks that need to be managed carefully.

If
we experience systems problems, including with our implementation of standard
laboratory or billing systems, they may interrupt our ability to operate. For
example, the problems may impact our ability to process test orders, deliver
test results or perform or bill for tests in a timely manner. If our operations
are interrupted, it could adversely affect our reputation and result in a loss
of customers and net revenues.

Failure
to develop, or acquire licenses for, new tests, technology and services could
negatively impact our testing volume and net revenues.

The
diagnostics testing industry is faced with changing technology and new product
introductions. Other companies or individuals, including our competitors, may
obtain patents or other property rights that would prevent, limit or interfere
with our ability to develop, perform or sell our tests or operate our business
or increase our costs. In addition, they could introduce new tests that may
result in a decrease in the demand for our tests or cause us to reduce the
prices of our tests. Our success in continuing to introduce new tests,
technology and services will depend, in part, on our ability to license new and
improved technologies on favorable terms. We may be unable to develop or
introduce new tests. We also may be unable to continue to negotiate acceptable
licensing arrangements, and arrangements that we do conclude may not yield
commercially successful diagnostic tests. If we are unable to license these
testing methods at competitive rates, our research and development costs may
increase as a result. In addition, if we are unable to develop and introduce,
or license, new tests, technology and services to expand our esoteric testing
business, our testing methods may become outdated when compared with our
competition and our testing volume and revenue may be materially and adversely
affected.

The
development of new, more cost-effective tests that can be performed by our
customers or by patients could negatively impact our testing volume and net
revenues.

Advances
in technology may lead to the development of more cost-effective tests that can
be performed outside of an independent clinical laboratory such as (1)
point-of-care tests that can be performed by physicians in their offices, (2)
esoteric tests that can be performed by hospitals in their own laboratories or
(3) home testing that can be performed by patients in their homes or by
physicians in their offices. Although the CLIA compliance costs make it cost
prohibitive for many physicians to operate clinical laboratories in their
offices, manufacturers of laboratory equipment and test kits could seek to
increase their sales by marketing point-of-care test equipment to physicians. Diagnostic
tests approved or cleared by the FDA for home use are automatically deemed to
be “waived” tests under CLIA and may be performed in physician office
laboratories with minimal regulatory oversight under CLIA as well as by
patients in their homes. Test kit manufacturers could seek to increase sales to
both physicians and patients of test kits approved by the FDA for point-of-care
testing or home use. Development of such technology and its use by our
customers would reduce the demand for our laboratory-based testing services and
negatively impact our net revenues.

Our
outstanding debt may impair our financial and operating flexibility.

As
of December 31, 2007, we had approximately $3.4 billion of long-term debt
outstanding. Except for outstanding letters of credit and operating leases, we
do not have any off-balance sheet financing arrangements in place or available.
Our debt agreements contain various restrictive covenants. These restrictions
could limit our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our
business because we must use a portion of these funds to make principal and
interest payments on our debt. We have obtained ratings on our debt from
Standard and Poor’s and Moody’s Investor Services. There can be no assurance
that any rating so assigned will remain for any given period of time or that a
rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if in that
rating agency’s judgment future circumstances relating to the basis of the
rating, such as adverse changes in our Company or our industry, so warrant. If
such ratings are lowered, the borrowing costs on our senior unsecured revolving
credit facility, secured receivables facility and term loan would increase.
Changes in our credit ratings, however, do not require repayment or
acceleration of any of our debt.

We
or our subsidiaries may incur additional indebtedness in the future. Our
ability to make principal and interest payments will depend on our ability to
generate cash in the future. If we incur additional debt a greater portion of
our cash flows may be needed to satisfy our debt service obligations and if we
do not generate sufficient cash to meet our debt service requirements, we may
need to seek additional financing. In this case, it may be more difficult, or
we may be unable, to obtain financing on terms that are acceptable to us. As a
result, we would be more vulnerable to general adverse economic, industry and
capital markets conditions as well as the other risks associated with
indebtedness.

Our ability to attract and retain qualified employees is
critical to the success of our business and the failure to do so may materially
adversely affect our performance.

Our
people are a critical resource and competition for qualified employees is
strong. If we were to lose, or to fail to attract and retain, key management
personnel or qualified skilled technical or professional employees at our
clinical laboratories, research centers or manufacturing facilities, the
Company’s earnings and revenues could be adversely affected. In addition, if we
were to lose, or to fail to attract and retain, skilled pathologists with positive
relationships with


their respective local medical communities,
particularly those with subspecialties, the Company’s earnings and revenues
could be adversely affected.

Failure
to establish, and perform to, appropriate quality standards to assure that the
highest level of quality is observed in the performance of our testing services
and in the design, manufacture and marketing of our products could adversely
affect the results of our operations and adversely impact our reputation.

The
provision of clinical testing services, including anatomic pathology services,
and related services, and the design, manufacture and marketing of diagnostic
products involve certain inherent risks. The services that we provide and the
products that we design, manufacture and market are intended to provide
information for healthcare providers in providing patient care. Therefore,
users of our services and products may have a greater sensitivity to errors
than the users of services or products that are intended for other purposes.

Manufacturing
or design defects, unanticipated use of our products, or inadequate disclosure
of risks relating to the use of the product can lead to injury or other adverse
events. These events could lead to recalls or safety alerts relating to our
products (either voluntary or required by governmental authorities) and could
result, in certain cases, in the removal of a product from the market. Any
recall could result in significant costs as well as negative publicity that
could reduce demand for our products. Personal injuries relating to the use of
our products can also result in product liability claims being brought against
us. In some circumstances, such adverse events could also cause delays in new
product approvals.

Similarly,
negligence in performing our services can lead to injury or other adverse
events. We may be sued under physician liability or other liability law for
acts or omissions by our pathologists, laboratory personnel and hospital
employees who are under the supervision of our hospital-based pathologists. We
are subject to the attendant risk of substantial damages awards and risk to our
reputation.

The failure of our IT systems to keep pace with technological
advances may significantly reduce our revenues or increase our expenses.

Public
and private initiatives to create healthcare information technology (HCIT)
standards and to mandate standardized clinical coding systems for the
electronic exchange of clinical information, including test results, could
require costly modifications to our existing HCIT systems. While we do not
expect HCIT standards to be adopted or implemented without adequate time to
comply, if we fail to adopt or delay in implementing HCIT standards, we could
lose customers and business opportunities.

Our operations and reputation may be impaired if we do not
adequately secure information.

In
our business, we generate or maintain sensitive information, such as patient
data. If we do not adequately safeguard that information and it were to become
available to persons or entities that should not have access to it, our
business could be impaired and our reputation could suffer.

We are
subject to numerous political, legal, operational and other risks as a result
of our international operations which could impact our business in many ways.

Although
we conduct most of our business in the U.S., our expanding international
operations increase our exposure to the inherent risks of doing business in
international markets. Depending on the market, these risks include, without
limitation:


International
operations also require us to devote significant management resources, to
implement our controls and systems in new markets, to comply with the U.S.
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar laws in local jurisdictions and to
overcome challenges based on differing languages and cultures.

We
expect to expand further our international operations, through acquisition or
otherwise, which would increase these risks. As a result of these risks, our
financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely
affected.

Our
operations may be adversely impacted by the effects of natural disasters such
as hurricanes and earthquakes, hostilities or acts of terrorism and other
criminal activities.

Our
operations may be adversely impacted by the effects of natural disasters such
as hurricanes and earthquakes, hostilities or acts of terrorism or other
criminal activities. Such events may result in a temporary decline in the
number of patients who seek clinical testing services. In addition, such events
may temporarily interrupt our ability to transport specimens, to receive
materials from our suppliers or otherwise to provide our services.

Adverse
results in material litigation could have an adverse financial impact and an
adverse impact on our client base and reputation.

We are
involved in various legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of
business including, among other things, disputes as to intellectual property,
professional liability and employee-related matters, as well as inquiries from
governmental agencies and Medicare or Medicaid carriers regarding billing
issues. Some of the proceedings against us involve claims that are substantial
in amount and could divert management’s attention from operations. The
proceedings also may result in substantial monetary damages, as well as damage
to our reputation, and decrease the demand for our services and products, all
of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We do not have
insurance or are substantially self-insured for a significant portion of any
liability with respect to such claims. The ultimate outcome of the various
proceedings or claims could have a material adverse effect on our financial
condition, results of operations or cash flows in the period in which the
impact of such matters is determined or paid.


CAUTIONARY FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT
FUTURE RESULTS


Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments

There
are no unresolved SEC comments that require disclosure.


Item 2. Properties

Our
executive offices are located in Madison, New Jersey. We maintain clinical
testing laboratories in major metropolitan areas and elsewhere throughout the
continental United States; in several instances a joint venture of which we are
a partner maintains the laboratory. We also maintain offices, a data center,
billing centers, call centers, an assembly center, distribution centers, and a
clinical trials testing laboratory at locations throughout the United States.
In addition, we maintain offices, manufacturing facilities and clinical
laboratories in locations outside the United States, including in Sweden, Puerto
Rico, Mexico, the United Kingdom, India and Australia. Our properties that are
not owned are leased on terms and for durations that are reflective of
commercial standards in the communities where these properties are located. We
believe that, in general, our facilities are suitable and adequate for our
current and anticipated future levels of operation and are adequately
maintained. We believe that if we were unable to renew a lease on any of our
facilities, we could find alternative space at competitive market rates and
relocate our operations to such new location without material disruption to our
business. Several of our principal facilities are highlighted below.


Item 3. Legal Proceedings

In
addition to the matters described below, in the normal course of business, we
have been named, from time to time, as a defendant in various legal actions,
including arbitrations, class actions and other litigation, arising in
connection with our activities as a provider of diagnostic testing, information
and services. These legal actions may include lawsuits alleging negligence or
other similar legal claims. Certain of the actual or threatened legal actions
include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages or claims
for indeterminate amounts of damages, and could have an adverse impact on our
client base and reputation.

The
Company is also involved, from time to time, in other reviews, investigations
and proceedings by governmental agencies regarding our business, including,
among other matters, operational matters, certain of which may result in
adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief.
The number of these reviews, investigations and proceedings has increased in
recent years with regard to many firms in the healthcare services industry,
including our Company.

We
maintain various liability insurance coverages for claims that could result
from providing or failing to provide clinical testing services, including
inaccurate testing results and other exposures. Our insurance coverage limits
our maximum exposure on individual claims; however, we are essentially
self-insured for a significant portion of these claims.

The
Company contests liability or the amount of damages as appropriate in each
pending matter. In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of
such matters, particularly in cases where claimants seek substantial or
indeterminate damages or where investigations or proceedings are in the early
stages, we cannot predict with certainty the loss or range of loss, if any,
related to such matters, how or if such matters will be resolved, when they
ultimately will be resolved, or what the eventual settlement, fine, penalty or
other relief, if any, might be. Subject to the foregoing, and except for the
NID Matter (see also Note 15 in “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” in
Part II, Item 8), we believe, based on current knowledge, that the outcome of
all other pending matters will not have a material adverse effect on our
consolidated financial condition, although the outcome of such matters could be
material to our results of operations and cash flows in the period that such
matters are determined or paid, depending on, among other things, the levels of
our revenues or income for such period.

NID Matter.

As
previously disclosed, NID, a test kit manufacturing subsidiary, and the Company
each received a subpoena from the United States Attorney’s Office for the
Eastern District of New York during the fourth quarter of 2004. The subpoenas
requested a wide range of business records, including documents regarding
parathyroid hormone (“PTH”) test kits manufactured by NID and PTH testing
performed by the Company. The Company has voluntarily and actively cooperated
with the investigation, providing information, witnesses and business records
of NID and the Company, including documents related to PTH tests and test kits,
as well as other tests and test kits. In the second and third quarters of 2005,
the FDA conducted an inspection of NID and issued a Form 483 listing the
observations made by the FDA during the course of the inspection. NID responded
to the Form 483.

During
the fourth quarter of 2005, NID instituted its second voluntary product hold
within a six-month period, due to quality issues, which adversely impacted the
operating performance of NID. As a result, the Company evaluated a number of
strategic options for NID, and on April 19, 2006, decided to cease operations
at NID. Upon completion of the wind down of operations in the third quarter of
2006, the operations of NID were classified as discontinued operations. During
the third quarter of 2006, the government issued two additional subpoenas, one
to NID and one to the Company. The subpoenas covered various records, including
records related to tests and test kits in addition to PTH.

During
the third quarter of 2007, the government and the Company began settlement
discussions. In the course of those discussions, the government has disclosed
to the Company certain of the government’s legal theories regarding the
amount of damages allegedly incurred by the government, which include alleged
violations of civil and criminal statutes including the False Claims Act and
the Food, Drug and Cosmetics Act. Violations of these statutes and related
regulations could lead to a warning letter, injunction, fines or penalties,
exclusion from federal health care programs and/or criminal prosecution, as
well as claims by third parties. The Company has analyzed the government’s
position and presented its own analysis which argued against many of the government’s
claims. In light of that analysis and based on the status of settlement discussions,
the Company has
established a reserve, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles,
reflected in discontinued operations, of $241 million in connection with these
claims. Of the total reserve, $51 million and $190 million was recorded in the
third and fourth quarters, respectively, of 2007. The Company estimates that
the amount reserved represents the minimum expected probable loss with respect
to this matter. The Company does not believe that a reasonable estimate for these
losses in excess of the established reserve can be made at this time. The Company
has recorded a deferred tax benefit associated with that portion of the reserve
that it expects will be tax deductible. Eventual losses related to these matters
may substantially exceed the reserve, and the impact could be material to the
Company’s results
of operations, cash flows and financial condition in the period that such matters
are determined or


paid.

The
Company continues to engage in discussions with the United States Attorney’s
Office and those discussions potentially could lead to an agreement in
principle to resolve some or all of the matters in the near future. There can
be no assurance, however, when or whether a settlement may be reached, or as to
its terms. If the Company cannot reach an acceptable settlement agreement with
the United States Attorney’s Office, the Company would defend itself and NID
and could incur significant costs in doing so.

Other Matters.

During
the second quarter of 2005, the Company received a subpoena from the U. S.
Attorney’s Office for the District of New Jersey. The subpoena seeks the
production of business and financial records regarding capitation and risk
sharing arrangements with government and private payers for the years 1993
through 1999. Also, during the third quarter of 2005, the Company received a
subpoena from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Office of the
Inspector General. The subpoena seeks the production of various business
records including records regarding our relationship with health maintenance
organizations, independent physician associations, group purchasing organizations,
and preferred provider organizations relating back to as early as 1995. The
Company is cooperating with the U.S. Attorney’s Office and the Office of the
Inspector General.

During
the second quarter of 2006, each of the Company and its subsidiary, Specialty
Laboratories, Inc. (“Specialty”), received a subpoena from the California
Attorney General’s Office. The subpoenas seek various documents including
documents relating to billings to MediCal, the California Medicaid program. The
subpoenas seek documents from various time frames ranging from three to ten
years. The Company and Specialty are cooperating with the California Attorney
General’s Office. We understand that there may be pending qui tam claims
brought by former employees or other “whistle blowers” as to which we cannot
determine the extent of any potential liability. We also are aware of certain
pending individual or class action lawsuits related to billing practices filed
under the qui tam provisions of the civil False Claims Act and/or other federal
and state statutes, regulations or other laws.

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of
Security Holders

None.


PART II

Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Stock,
Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

Our
common stock is listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the
symbol “DGX.” As of February 1, 2008, we had approximately 5,800 record
holders of our common stock; we believe that the number of beneficial holders
of our common stock exceeds the number of record holders. The following table
sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high and low sales price per share
as reported on the New York Stock Exchange Consolidated Tape and dividend information.

We
expect to fund future dividend payments with cash flows from operations, and do
not expect the dividend to have a material impact on our ability to finance
future growth.

We
did not repurchase any shares of our common stock during the fourth quarter of
our fiscal year ended December 31, 2007.

In
2003, our Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program, which
permitted us to purchase up to $600 million of our common stock. In July 2004,
our Board of Directors authorized us to purchase up to an additional $300
million of our common stock. Under a separate authorization from our Board of
Directors, in December 2004 we repurchased 5.4 million shares of our common
stock for approximately $254 million from GlaxoSmithKline plc. Our Board of
Directors expanded the share repurchase authorization in January 2005 and
January 2006 by an additional $350 million and an additional $600 million,
respectively. As of December 31, 2007 and since the inception of the share
repurchase program in May 2003, we have repurchased 44.1 million shares of our
common stock at an average price of $45.35 for $2.0 billion. At December 31,
2007, approximately $104 million of the share repurchase authorizations
remained available. The share repurchase program has no set expiration or
termination date.


Performance Graph

Set
forth below is a line graph comparing the cumulative total shareholder return
on Quest Diagnostics’ common stock since December 31, 2002, based on the market
price of the Company’s common stock and assuming reinvestment of dividends,
with the cumulative total shareholder return of companies on the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Stock Index and the S&P 500 Healthcare Equipment & Services
Index.

(1)

All values
  are adjusted to reflect the Company’s two-for-one stock split that occurred
  on June 20, 2005.

Item 6. Selected Financial Data

See
page 39.

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

See
page 41.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative
Disclosures About Market Risk

See
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations.


Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data

See
Item 15(a)1 and Item 15(a)2.

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with
Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None.

Item 9A. Controls and Procedures

Conclusion Regarding Effectiveness of
Disclosure Controls and Procedures

Under
the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our
Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, we have evaluated the
effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined under Rules
13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended).
Based upon that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial
Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as
of the end of the period covered by this annual report.

Management’s Report on Internal Control Over
Financial Reporting

See
page 58.

Changes in Internal Control

On
May 31, 2007, the Company completed the acquisition of AmeriPath. AmeriPath
disclosed two “material weaknesses” in internal controls over financial
reporting in its 2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K and first quarter 2007
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The material weaknesses relate to the following:
(i) the adequacy of general controls relating to certain AmeriPath
information technology systems, and (ii) the adequacy of the support and
analysis for accounts receivable allowances. Subsequent to the acquisition of
AmeriPath, the Company has revised certain of AmeriPath’s controls, and has implemented
oversight procedures related to accounts receivable allowances and general
controls in its information technology systems. These changes have been designed
to ensure adherence with the Company’s overall methodology, supervision and
monitoring processes related to internal control over financial reporting.
After giving consideration to the control weaknesses identified at AmeriPath,
management believes that the financial statements included in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K present fairly in all material respects the Company’s
consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows for the
periods presented.

During
the fourth quarter of 2007, there have been no other changes in our internal control
over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934) that materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

Item 9B. Other Information

None.


PART III

Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and
Corporate Governance

Our
Code of Business Ethics applies to all employees, executive officers and
directors, including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and
Controller. You can find our Code of Business Ethics on our internet site,

www.questdiagnostics.com

.
We will post any amendments to the Code of Business Ethics, and any waivers
that are required to be disclosed by the rules of either the SEC or the New
York Stock Exchange, on our internet site. You can request a copy of our Code
of Business Ethics, at no cost, by contacting Investor Relations, 3 Giralda
Farms, Madison, New Jersey 07940 (973-520-2700).

Because
our common stock is listed for trading on the New York Stock Exchange, in 2007
our Chief Executive Officer was required to make, and he made, an annual
certification to the New York Stock Exchange stating that he was not aware of
any violation by Quest Diagnostics of the corporate governance listing
standards of the Exchange. Our Chief Executive Officer made his certification
to that effect to the New York Stock Exchange on approximately May 23, 2007. In
addition, we have filed, as exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the
certifications of our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer
required under Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 to be filed with
the SEC regarding the quality of our Company’s public disclosure.

Information
regarding the directors and executive officers of the Company appearing in our
Proxy Statement to be filed by April 28, 2008 (“Proxy Statement”) under the
captions “Matters to be Considered at the Meeting - Election of Directors,”
“Information about our Corporate Governance – Audit and Finance Committee,” and
“Additional Information Regarding Executive Compensation - Section 16(a)
Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance” is incorporated by reference herein.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

Officers
of the Company are elected annually by the Board of Directors and hold office
at the discretion of the Board of Directors. The following persons serve as
executive officers of the Company.

Surya
N. Mohapatra, Ph.D

. (58) is Chairman of the Board,
President and Chief Executive Officer. Prior to joining the Company in February
1999 as Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, he was Senior Vice
President of Picker International, a worldwide leader in advanced medical
imaging technologies. Dr. Mohapatra was appointed President and Chief Operating
Officer in June 1999, Chief Executive Officer in May 2004 and Chairman of the
Board in December 2004. He is a director of ITT Corporation. Dr. Mohapatra has
been a director of the Company since 2002.

Robert
A. Hagemann

(51) is Senior Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer. He joined Corning Life Sciences, Inc. in 1992, where he
held a variety of senior financial positions before being named Vice President
and Corporate Controller of the Company in 1996. Mr. Hagemann has served as
Chief Financial Officer since August 1998.

Joan
E. Miller, Ph.D.

(53) is Senior Vice President -
Pathology and Hospital Services. Dr. Miller joined Corning Life Sciences, Inc.
in 1992 and since has held positions of increasing responsibility. Dr. Miller
was named Senior Managing Director, Nichols Institute in 2002 and Vice
President, Hospital Business in 2003. Since June 2007, Dr. Miller has overseen
the Company’s hospital services business, including its esoteric testing facilities,
and its anatomic pathology services business, including AmeriPath.

Michael
E. Prevoznik

(46) is Senior Vice President and General
Counsel. Mr. Prevoznik joined the Company as Vice President and General Counsel
in August 1999. In 2003, he assumed responsibility for governmental
affairs.  Prior to joining the Company,
Mr. Prevoznik served in positions of increasing responsibility within the
compliance organization at SmithKline Beecham, most recently as Vice President,
Compliance, with responsibility for coordinating all SmithKline Beecham
compliance activities worldwide.

Wayne
R. Simmons

(52) is Vice President - Operations. Since
July 2007, he has overseen the Company’s U.S. clinical testing operations. Mr.
Simmons joined the Company in February 2004 as Vice President for our central
region. Prior to joining Quest Diagnostics, Mr. Simmons served in positions of
increasing responsibility with Philips Medical Systems, including, since 2002,
as Vice President of Supply Chain, in which position he was responsible for
operations at Philips Medical Systems CT Operations facilities globally.


Item 11. Executive Compensation

Information
appearing in our Proxy Statement under the captions “Compensation Discussion and
Analysis,” “Additional Information Regarding Executive Compensation” and
“Report of the Compensation Committee” is incorporated by reference herein.

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain
Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholders’ Matters

Information
regarding equity compensation plans and security ownership of certain
beneficial owners and management appearing in our Proxy Statement under the
captions “Information about our Corporate Governance – Stock Ownership of
Directors and Executive Officers” and “Additional Information Regarding
Executive Compensation – Equity Compensation Plan Information” is incorporated
by reference herein.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related
Transactions, and Director Independence

Information
regarding certain relationships and related transactions appearing in our Proxy
Statement under the captions “Information About Our Corporate Governance –
Related Person Transactions”, “Information about our Corporate Governance –
Independence of the Board of Directors” and “Information about our Corporate
Governance – Director Independence” is incorporated by reference herein.

Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and
Services

Information
regarding principal accountant fees and services appearing in our Proxy
Statement under the captions “Fees and Services of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP”
and “Audit and Finance Committee Pre-Approval Policies and Procedures” is
incorporated by reference herein.


PART IV

Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement
Schedules

(a)    
  Documents filed as part of this Report.

1. Index to
  financial statements and supplementary data filed as part of this Report.

2. Financial
  Statement Schedule.

3. Exhibits

An
exhibit index has been filed as part of this Report beginning on page E-1 and
is incorporated herein by reference.

(b)     Exhibits
  filed as part of this Report.

An
exhibit index has been filed as part of this Report beginning on page E-1 and
is incorporated herein by reference.

(c)     None.


Signatures

Pursuant
to the requirements of Sections 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by
the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on February 22, 2008.

QUEST
  DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED

(Registrant)

Each
individual whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Michael E.
Prevoznik and William J. O’Shaughnessy, Jr., and each of them singly, his or
her true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents with full power of
substitution, for him or her and in his or her name, place and stead, in any
and all capacities, to sign any and all amendments to this Annual Report on
Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto said
attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do
and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done in
and about the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as he or she might
or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all the said
attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them or their or his or her substitute
or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has
been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in
the capacities and on February 22, 2008.


SELECTED HISTORICAL FINANCIAL DATA OF OUR
COMPANY

The
following table summarizes selected historical financial data of our Company
and our subsidiaries at the dates and for each of the periods presented. We
derived the selected historical financial data for the years 2003 through 2007
from the audited consolidated financial statements of our Company. In September
2004, the Emerging Issues Task Force reached a final consensus on Issue 04-8,
“The Effect of Contingently Convertible Instruments on Diluted Earnings per
Share” (“Issue 04-8”), effective December 31, 2004. Pursuant to Issue 04-8, we
included the dilutive effect of our 1¾% contingent convertible debentures
issued November 26, 2001 in our dilutive earnings per common share calculations
using the if-converted method, regardless of whether or not the holders of
these securities were permitted to exercise their conversion rights, and
retroactively restated previously reported diluted earnings per common share.
Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards, or SFAS, No. 123, revised 2004, “Share-Based Payment”
(“SFAS 123R”), using the modified prospective approach and therefore has not
restated results for prior periods. Under this approach, awards that are
granted, modified or settled after January 1, 2006 will be measured and
accounted for in accordance with SFAS 123R. Unvested awards that were granted
prior to January 1, 2006 will continue to be accounted for in accordance SFAS
No. 123, “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation”, as amended by SFAS 148,
“Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation-Transition and Disclosure – an
amendment to SFAS No. 123”, except that compensation cost will be recognized in
the Company’s results of operations. During the third quarter of 2006, the
Company completed its wind down of NID, a test kit manufacturing subsidiary,
and classified the operations of NID as discontinued operations. The selected
historical financial data presented below has been restated to report the
results of NID as discontinued operations for all periods presented. The
selected historical financial data is only a summary and should be read
together with the audited consolidated financial statements and related notes
of our Company and management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition
and results of operations included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form
10-K.



QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Overview

The Clinical Testing Industry

Clinical
testing is an essential element in the delivery of healthcare services.
Physicians use laboratory tests to assist in the detection, diagnosis,
evaluation, monitoring and treatment of diseases and other medical conditions.

Most laboratory tests are performed by one of three types of laboratories: commercial
clinical laboratories; hospital-affiliated laboratories; and physician-office
laboratories. In 2007, we estimate that hospital-affiliated laboratories
accounted for approximately 60% of the market, commercial clinical laboratories
approximately one-third and physician-office laboratories the balance.

Orders
for laboratory testing are generated from physician offices, hospitals and
employers and can be affected by a number of factors. For example, changes in
the United States economy can affect the number of unemployed and uninsured,
and design changes in healthcare plans can affect the number of physician
office and hospital visits, and can impact the utilization of laboratory
testing.

While the diagnostic testing industry in the United States may be impacted by a
number of factors, we believe it will continue to grow over the long term as a
result of the following:

The
diagnostic testing industry is subject to seasonal fluctuations in operating
results and cash flows. Typically, testing volume declines during the summer
months, year-end holiday periods and other major holidays, reducing net revenues
and operating cash flows below annual averages. Testing volume is also subject
to declines due to inclement weather or other events, which can deter patients
from having testing performed and which can vary in duration and severity from
year to year.

Reimbursement
for Services

Payments for clinical testing services are
made by physicians, hospitals, employers, healthcare insurers, patients and the
government. Physicians, hospitals and employers are typically billed on a
fee-for-service basis based on negotiated fee schedules. Fees billed to
healthcare insurers and patients are based on the laboratory’s patient fee
schedule, subject to any limitations on fees negotiated with the healthcare
insurers or with physicians on behalf of their patients. Medicare and Medicaid
reimbursements are based on fee schedules set by governmental authorities.

Government
payers, such as Medicare and Medicaid, as well as healthcare insurers and
larger employers, have taken steps and may continue to take steps to control
the cost, utilization and delivery of healthcare services, including clinical
testing services. Despite the added cost and complexity of participating in the
Medicare and Medicaid programs, we continue to participate in such programs because
we believe that our other business may depend, in part, on continued
participation in these programs, since certain customers may want a single
laboratory capable of performing all of their clinical testing services,
regardless of who pays for such services.

Healthcare
insurers, which typically negotiate directly or indirectly with a number of
clinical laboratories on behalf of their members, represent approximately
one-half of our clinical testing volumes and one-half of our net revenues from
our clinical testing business. Larger healthcare insurers typically prefer to
use large commercial clinical laboratories because they can provide services
    to their members on a national or regional basis. In addition, larger laboratories
are better able to achieve the low-cost structures necessary to profitably
service the members of large healthcare plans and can provide test utilization
data across various products in a consistent format. In certain markets, such
as California, healthcare insurers may delegate their covered members to
independent physician associations (“IPAs”), which in turn negotiate
with laboratories for clinical testing services on behalf of their members.


The
trend of consolidation among healthcare insurers has continued, resulting in
fewer but larger insurers with significant bargaining power to negotiate fee
arrangements with healthcare providers, including clinical laboratories. These
healthcare insurers, as well as IPAs, often demand that clinical testing service
providers accept discounted fee structures or assume all or a portion of the
utilization risk associated with providing testing services to their members
enrolled in highly-restricted plans through capitated payment arrangements.
Under these capitated payment arrangements, we and healthcare insurers agree
    to a predetermined monthly reimbursement rate for each member enrolled in
    the healthcare insurer’s restricted plan, generally regardless of the
    number or cost of services provided by us. Our cost to perform work reimbursed
    under capitated payment arrangements is not materially different from our
    cost to perform work reimbursed under other arrangements with healthcare
    insurers. Since average reimbursement rates under capitated payment arrangements
    are typically less than our overall average reimbursement rate, the testing
    services reimbursed under capitated payment arrangements are generally less
    profitable. In 2007, we derived approximately 14% of our testing volume and
    5% of our net revenues from capitated payment arrangements.

Most healthcare plans also offer programs such as preferred provider
organizations (“PPOs”) and consumer driven health plans that offer
a greater choice of healthcare providers. Pricing for these programs is typically
negotiated on a fee-for-service basis, which generally results in higher
revenue per requisition than under capitation arrangements. Most of our
agreements with major healthcare insurers are non-exclusive arrangements. As
    a result, under these non-exclusive arrangements, physicians and patients
    have more freedom of choice in selecting laboratories, and laboratories are
    likely to compete more on the basis of service and quality than they may
    otherwise. If consumer driven plans and PPO plans continue to increase in
    popularity, it will be increasingly important for healthcare providers to
    differentiate themselves based on quality, service and convenience to avoid
competing on price alone.

Despite the general trend of increased choice for patients in selecting a
healthcare provider, recent experience indicates that some healthcare insurers
may actively seek to limit the choice of patients and physicians if they feel
it will give them increased leverage to negotiate lower fees, by consolidating
services with a single or limited network of contracted providers.
Historically, healthcare insurers, which had limited their network of
laboratory service providers, encouraged their members, and sometimes offered
incentives, to utilize only contracted providers. Patients who use a
non-contracted provider may have a higher co-insurance responsibility, which
may result in physicians referring testing to contracted providers to minimize
the expense to their patients. In cases where members choose to use a
non-contracted provider due to service quality or convenience, the
non-contracted provider would be reimbursed at rates considered “reasonable and
customary”. Contracted rates are generally lower than “reasonable and
customary” rates because of the potential for greater volume as a contracted
provider. A non-contracted laboratory service provider with quality and service
preferred by physicians and patients to that of contracted providers, could
potentially realize greater profits than if it was a contracted provider,
provided that physicians and patients continue to have choice in selecting
their provider, and any potential additional cost to the patient of using a
non-contracted provider is not considered prohibitive. However, healthcare
insurers could seek to impose penalties on physicians for referring patients to
non-contracted laboratory service providers and could make it substantially
more difficult for a laboratory service provider to sufficiently differentiate
itself based on quality and service in order to profitably operate as a
non-contracted provider, and could materially impact our financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows. Physicians requiring testing for patients
are the primary referral source of our clinical testing volume, and often refer
work to us as a non-contracted provider.

We
expect that reimbursements for the diagnostic testing industry will continue to
remain under pressure. Today, many federal and state governments face serious
budget deficits and healthcare spending is subject to reductions, and efforts
to reduce reimbursements and stringent cost controls by government and other
payers for existing tests may continue. However, we believe that as new tests
are developed which either improve on the effectiveness of existing tests or
provide new diagnostic capabilities, government and other payers will add these
tests as covered services, because of the importance of laboratory testing in
assessing and managing the health of patients. We continue to emphasize the
importance and the high value of laboratory testing with healthcare insurers
and government payers at the federal and state level.

Our
Company

Quest Diagnostics, as the largest clinical testing company with a leading
position in most of its domestic geographic markets and service offerings, is
well positioned to benefit from the long-term growth expected in the industry.
Over 90% of our revenues are derived from clinical testing with the balance
derived from insurer services, clinical trials testing, diagnostic products and
healthcare information technology. Clinical testing is generally categorized
    as clinical pathology testing and anatomic pathology testing. Clinical pathology
testing is performed on body fluids, such as blood and urine. Anatomic pathology
testing is performed on tissues, including biopsies, and other samples, such
    as human cells.

Over
the last eighteen months, we have completed the acquisitions of AmeriPath Group
Holdings, Inc. (“AmeriPath”), POCT Holding AB (“HemoCue”), Enterix Inc.
(“Enterix”), and Focus Technologies Holding Company (“Focus Diagnostics”). With
the acquisition of AmeriPath, we have become the world’s premier cancer
diagnostics


company,
focused on dermatopathology, anatomic pathology and molecular diagnostics and
are now able to provide interpretive consultation through the largest medical
and scientific staff in the industry, with approximately 900 M.D.s and Ph.D.s
around the country. In addition, we are the leading provider of: gene-based
testing and other esoteric testing, risk assessment services for the life
insurance industry, and testing for drugs-of-abuse. We are also a leading
provider of testing for clinical trials. The Company’s diagnostics products
business, which includes the operations of HemoCue, Enterix and certain of
Focus Diagnostics’ operations, manufactures and markets diagnostic test kits
and specialized point-of-care testing, including tests for hemoglobin, white
blood cell counts, micro-albumin, colorectal cancer screening and infectious
diseases. Through our MedPlus subsidiary, we empower healthcare organizations
and clinicians with state-of-the-art information technology solutions that can
improve patient care and medical practice.

We
have established operations in Gurgaon, India, where we will offer many of
Quest Diagnostics’ services. The diagnostic testing business in India is poised
for rapid expansion. We see significant opportunities for Quest Diagnostics to
strengthen the delivery of healthcare services in India utilizing our quality
diagnostics and technology expertise.

Recent Changes in Payer-Relationships

In
October of 2006, we announced that effective January 1, 2007 we would cease to
be a national contracted provider of laboratory services to United Healthcare
Group Inc. (“UNH”) because we could not reach agreement on an appropriate
reimbursement for our services and other key terms. We determined that in the
long term, agreeing to the terms offered by UNH would not be in the best interest
of our Company and our shareholders. While we expect to continue to service
UNH’s members as a non-contracted provider, UNH has threatened physicians with
penalties if they continue to send laboratory testing to non-contracted
providers, and has aggressively communicated to its members that they may be
faced with higher co-payments and deductibles if they use an out-of-network
laboratory. We believe UNH’s actions are unprecedented. AmeriPath, which we
acquired in May 2007, continues to service UNH members as a contracted provider
under a long-term agreement which was entered into subsequent to our
acquisition.

UNH
accounted for approximately 7% of our net revenues in 2006, with some of our
regional laboratories having concentrations as high as 15% to 20%. We retained
virtually all of our UNH business through December 31, 2006 and we estimate
that as of December 31, 2007, we retained over 20% of our previously contracted
UNH volume.

We
estimate that no longer being a contracted provider to UNH, reduced our
clinical testing volume in 2007 by 7%, most of that resulting from the direct
loss of previously contracted work, and some of it associated with the loss of
other work from physicians who choose to consolidate their testing with a
single laboratory. The impact of the change in status with UNH was the
principal driver of lower earnings in 2007 compared to the prior year, due to
the significant impact it had during the first half of the year. However, we
successfully mitigated the ongoing impact during the third quarter of 2007 as a
result of actions taken to reduce costs, and higher reimbursement for the work
we continue to perform for UNH members. During the second half of the year, our
profits, before considering the acquisition of AmeriPath, exceeded those of the
prior year, when we were a contracted provider to UNH.

We
have remained committed to providing a superior service level to patients,
physicians and other customers. As a result, during 2007 we were able to renew,
and in some cases expand, our relationships with a number of important health
plans, in each case on economic terms which satisfied both parties and at
prices which recognized the differentiated level of service we provide. While
there remain a number of managed care agreements to be renewed over the next
six months, all of our largest agreements have been renewed or expanded with
most of the newly contracted business extending into 2010 or beyond.

Six Sigma and Standardization Initiatives/Efforts to Improve Operating
Efficiency

The diagnostic testing industry is labor intensive. Employee compensation and
benefits constitute approximately one-half of our total costs and expenses.
Cost of services consists principally of costs for obtaining, transporting and
testing specimens. Selling, general and administrative expenses consist
principally of the costs associated with our sales and marketing efforts,
billing operations (including bad debt expense), and general management and
administrative support. In addition, performing diagnostic testing involves
significant fixed costs for facilities and other infrastructure required to
obtain, transport and test specimens. Therefore, relatively small changes in
volume can have a significant impact on profitability in the short-term.

A
large portion of our costs are fixed, making it more challenging to fully
mitigate the profit impact of lost volume in the short term. In response to
reduced volume levels, as a result of contract changes, we have taken actions
to improve our operating efficiency and mitigate the profit impact of reduced
volume levels and increased pricing pressure. During 2007, we took actions to
adjust our cost structure while maintaining and, in some cases improving, service
levels. These actions have enabled us to improve margins as a percentage of
revenues over the course of the year and, as mentioned earlier, during the
second half of 2007 achieve a level which exceeded that of the prior year. Many
of these actions were part of a program we announced in July 2007 which we
expect will result in $500 million of cost reductions


over the next
several years, beyond those realized through the first half of 2007.

We
intend to become recognized as the quality leader in the healthcare services
industry through utilizing the Six Sigma approach and Lean Six Sigma
principles. Six Sigma is a management approach that enhances quality and
requires a thorough understanding of customer needs and experience, root cause
analysis, process improvements and rigorous tracking and measuring of key
metrics. Lean Six Sigma streamlines processes and eliminates waste. We utilize
the Six Sigma approach and Lean Six Sigma principles to increase the efficiency
of our operations and to reduce operating cost. We plan to utilize Six Sigma to
implement the initiatives which are part of our cost reduction program and
provide a better customer experience. These initiatives relate to standardizing
our operations and processes, and adopting identified company best practices.
One of these key initiatives is to deploy Lean Six Sigma in our laboratories to
realize productivity gains. Additionally, we expect to realize efficiencies in
other areas by better aligning our service capacity with patient and sample
flows. We are driving more of our purchasing through master contracts to take
better advantage of our scale. We are expanding the use of customer
connectivity which reduces costs in specimen data entry and billing, and helps
lower our bad debt. We are improving the efficiency of our logistics routes
using advanced route optimization tools and we have streamlined our management
structure and administrative functions to improve efficiency and increase
focus. As additional detailed plans to implement these opportunities are
approved and executed, some will result in charges to earnings associated with
the implementation. These charges may be material to the results of operations
and cash flows in the periods recorded or paid.

Recent Acquisitions

The
clinical testing industry in the United States remains fragmented. We expect to
continue to selectively evaluate potential acquisitions of domestic clinical
laboratories that can be integrated into our existing laboratories, thereby
increasing access for patients and enabling us to reduce costs and improve
efficiencies. While over the long term we believe positive industry factors in
the United States diagnostic testing industry and the differentiated services
we offer to our customers will enable us to grow organically, we believe there
will continue to be opportunities to grow beyond our current principal business
of operating clinical testing laboratories in the United States. Technology is
enabling testing to be performed closer to the patient, whether in the
physician’s office or at the hospital bedside, in the form of point-of-care
testing. Given that physicians and hospitals are primary sources for both
point-of-care testing and laboratory performed tests, we believe providing both
services will strengthen our relationships with customers and accelerate our
growth.

Additionally,
diagnostic testing in international markets, particularly developing countries,
is highly fragmented and less mature. Continued expansion into point-of-care testing
and international markets will diversify our revenue base, and add businesses
in markets which are growing faster and are more profitable than our principal
business of United States based clinical testing.

Over
the past eighteen months, we have completed the acquisitions of AmeriPath,
HemoCue, Enterix, and Focus Diagnostics, and have in place major elements
needed to drive future growth. Currently, our focus has turned to fully
integrating and aligning the capabilities of these companies, as well as Lab

One

,
Inc. (“LabOne”), acquired in 2005, to fully realize the synergy and growth
opportunities they create. In addition, we will focus on reducing our
outstanding debt that resulted from financing these acquisitions. As a result,
over the next year we anticipate doing fewer significant acquisitions.

Acquisition of AmeriPath

On
May 31, 2007, we completed the acquisition of AmeriPath, in an all-cash
transaction valued at approximately $2 billion, including approximately $780 million
of assumed debt and related accrued interest. AmeriPath is a leading provider
of anatomic pathology, including dermatopathology, and esoteric testing which
generates annual revenues of approximately $800 million.

Through
the acquisition, we acquired all of AmeriPath’s operations. AmeriPath, with its
team of approximately 400 board certified pathologists, operates 40 outpatient
anatomic pathology laboratories and provides inpatient anatomic pathology and
medical director services for approximately 200 hospitals throughout the
country. We financed the all-cash purchase price and related transaction costs,
together with the repayment of approximately $780 million of principal and
related accrued interest representing substantially all of AmeriPath’s debt, as
well as the refinancing of the $450 million term loan used to finance the
acquisition of HemoCue with $1.6 billion of borrowings under a new five-year
term loan facility, $780 million of borrowings under a new one-year bridge
loan, and cash on-hand. In June 2007, we completed an $800 million senior notes
offering. The net proceeds of the senior notes offering were used to repay the
$780 million borrowed under the bridge loan. The acquisition was accounted for
under the purchase method of accounting.

During
the fourth quarter of 2007, we finalized major components of our plan for the
integration of AmeriPath and recorded the related costs of the integration.
These costs were not material to our results of operations or cash flows.


Acquisition of HemoCue

On
January 31, 2007, we acquired HemoCue, a Sweden-based company specializing in
point-of-care testing, in an all-cash transaction valued at approximately $450
million, including $113 million of assumed debt of HemoCue. The transaction was
financed through an interim credit facility, which was refinanced during the
second quarter of 2007 in connection with the financing of the AmeriPath
acquisition. This acquisition did not have a material impact on our 2007 financial
results.

HemoCue
is the leading international provider in point-of-care testing for hemoglobin,
with a growing share in professional glucose and microalbumin testing. HemoCue
has recently received FDA clearance for a test to determine white blood cell
counts and has applied to receive CLIA-waived status. This acquisition
complements our point-of-care testing for infectious disease and cancer,
including new tests for colorectal cancer screening and Herpes Simplex Type 2.
The acquisition increases our presence in the growing point-of-care testing
market and we plan to leverage HemoCue’s international presence to reach new
markets around the world.

Acquisition of Enterix

On
August 31, 2006, we completed the acquisition of Enterix, a privately held
Australia-based company that developed and manufactures the InSure

TM

Fecal
Immunochemical Test, an FDA-cleared test for use in screening for colorectal
cancer and other sources of lower gastrointestinal bleeding, for approximately
$44 million in cash.

Acquisition of Focus Diagnostics

On
July 3, 2006, we completed the acquisition of Focus Diagnostics in an all-cash
transaction valued at $208 million, including approximately $3 million of
assumed debt. We financed the acquisition and related transaction costs and the
repayment of substantially all of Focus Diagnostics’ outstanding debt with $135
million of borrowings under our secured receivables credit facility and with
cash on-hand.

Focus
Diagnostics is a leading provider of infectious and immunologic disease testing
and develops and markets diagnostic products. It offers its reference testing
services and diagnostic products to large academic medical centers, hospitals
and commercial laboratories.

Critical Accounting Policies

The
preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America requires us to make
estimates and assumptions and select accounting policies that affect our
reported financial results and the disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities.

While
many operational aspects of our business are subject to complex federal, state
and local regulations, the accounting for most of our business is generally straightforward
with net revenues primarily recognized upon completion of the testing process.
Our revenues are primarily comprised of a high volume of relatively low dollar
transactions, and about one-half of our total costs and expenses consist of
employee compensation and benefits. Due to the nature of our business, several
of our accounting policies involve significant estimates and judgments:

Revenues and accounts receivable associated with
clinical
testing

The
process for estimating the ultimate collection of receivables associated with
our clinical testing business involves significant assumptions and judgments.
Billings for services reimbursed by third-party payers, including Medicare and
Medicaid, are recorded as revenues net of allowances for differences between
amounts billed and the estimated receipts from such payers. Adjustments to the
estimated receipts, based on final settlement with the third-party payers, are
recorded upon settlement as an adjustment to net revenues.

We
have implemented a standardized approach to estimate and review the
collectibility of our receivables based on a number of factors, including the
period they have been outstanding. Historical collection and payer
reimbursement experience is an integral part of the estimation process related
to allowances for doubtful accounts. In addition, we regularly assess the state
of our billing operations in order to identify issues, which may impact the
collectibility of


receivables or
allowance estimates. We believe that the collectibility of our receivables is
directly linked to the quality of our billing processes, most notably those
related to obtaining the correct information in order to bill effectively for
the services we provide. As such, we have implemented “best practices” to
reduce the number of requisitions that we receive from healthcare providers
with missing or incorrect billing information. Revisions to the allowances for
doubtful accounts estimates are recorded as an adjustment to bad debt expense
within selling, general and administrative expenses. We believe that our
collection and allowance estimation processes, along with our close monitoring
of our billing operations, help to reduce the risk associated with material
revisions to reserve estimates. Less than 5% of our net accounts receivable as
of December 31, 2007 were outstanding more than 150 days.

Healthcare
insurers

Healthcare
insurers reimburse us for approximately one-half of our net revenues.
Reimbursements from healthcare insurers are based on negotiated fee-for-service
schedules and on capitated payment rates.

Receivables
due from healthcare insurers represent approximately 31% of our net accounts receivable.
Substantially all of the accounts receivable due from healthcare insurers
represent amounts billed under negotiated fee-for-service arrangements. We
utilize a standard approach to establish allowances for doubtful accounts for
such receivables, which considers the aging of the receivables and results in
increased allowance requirements as the aging of the related receivables
increases. Our approach also considers historical collection experience and
other factors. Collection of such receivables is normally a function of
providing complete and correct billing information to the healthcare insurers
within the various filing deadlines. For healthcare insurers, collection
typically occurs within 30 to 60 days of billing. Provided healthcare insurers
have been billed accurately with complete information prior to the established
filing deadline, there has historically been little to no collection risk. If
there has been a delay in billing, we determine if the amounts in question will
likely go past the filing deadline, and if so, we will reserve accordingly for
the billing.

Approximately
5% of our net revenues are reimbursed under capitated payment arrangements in
which case the healthcare insurers typically reimburse us in the same month
services are performed, essentially giving rise to no outstanding accounts
receivable at month-end. If any capitated payments are not received on a timely
basis, we determine the cause and make a separate determination as to whether
or not the collection of the amount from the healthcare insurer is at risk and
if so, would reserve accordingly.

Government
payers

Payments
for clinical testing services made by the government are based on fee schedules
set by governmental authorities. Receivables due from government payers under
the Medicare and Medicaid programs represent approximately 14% of our net
accounts receivable. Collection of such receivables is normally a function of
providing the complete and correct billing information within the various
filing deadlines. Collection typically occurs within 30 days of billing. Our
processes for billing, collecting and estimating uncollectible amounts for
receivables due from government payers, as well as the risk of non-collection,
are substantially the same as those noted above for healthcare insurers under
negotiated fee-for-service arrangements.

Client
payers

Client
payers include physicians, hospitals, employers and other commercial
laboratories, and are billed based on a negotiated fee schedule. Receivables
due from client payers represent approximately 33% of our net accounts
receivable. Credit risk and ability to pay are more of a consideration for
these payers than healthcare insurers and government payers. We utilize a
standard approach to establish allowances for doubtful accounts for such
receivables, which considers the aging of the receivables and results in
increased allowance requirements as the aging of the related receivables
increase. Our approach also considers specific account reviews, historical
collection experience and other factors.

Patient
receivables

Patients
are billed based on established patient fee schedules, subject to any
limitations on fees negotiated with healthcare insurers or physicians on behalf
of the patient. Receivables due from patients represent approximately 22% of
our net accounts receivable. Collection of receivables due from patients is
subject to credit risk and ability of the patients to pay. We utilize a
standard approach to establish allowances for doubtful accounts for such
receivables, which considers the aging of the receivables and results in
increased allowance requirements as the aging of the related receivables
increases. Our approach also considers historical collection experience and
other factors. Patient receivables are generally fully reserved for when the
related billing reaches 210 days outstanding. Balances are automatically
written off when they are sent to collection agencies. Reserves are adjusted
for estimated recoveries of amounts sent to collection agencies based on
historical collection experience, which is regularly monitored.


Reserves for general and professional liability
claims

As
a general matter, providers of clinical testing services may be subject to
lawsuits alleging negligence or other similar legal claims. These suits could
involve claims for substantial damages. Any professional liability litigation
could also have an adverse impact on our client base and reputation. We
maintain various liability insurance coverages for claims that could result
from providing or failing to provide clinical testing services including
inaccurate testing results and other exposures. Our insurance coverage limits
our maximum exposure on individual claims; however, we are essentially
self-insured for a significant portion of these claims. While the basis for
claims reserves considers actuarially determined losses based upon our
historical and projected loss experience, the process of analyzing, assessing
and establishing reserve estimates relative to these types of claims involves a
high degree of judgment. Changes in the facts and circumstances associated with
claims could have a material impact on our results of operations, principally costs
of services, and cash flows in the period that reserve estimates are revised or
paid. Although we believe that our present insurance coverage and reserves are
sufficient to cover currently estimated exposures, it is possible that we may
incur liabilities in excess of our insurance coverage or recorded reserves.

Reserves for other legal
proceedings

Our
business is subject to extensive and frequently changing federal, state and
local laws and regulations. In addition, we are aware of certain pending
lawsuits related to billing practices filed under the qui tam provisions of the
False Claims Act and other federal and state statutes. See Notes 15 and 16 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the various legal
proceedings that involve the Company. We have a comprehensive compliance
program that is intended to ensure the strict implementation and observance of
all applicable laws, regulations and Company policies. Management periodically
reports to the Quality, Safety & Compliance Committee of the Board of
Directors regarding compliance operations. As an integral part of our
compliance program, we investigate all reported or suspected failures to comply
with federal and state healthcare reimbursement requirements. Any non-compliance
that results in Medicare or Medicaid overpayments is reported to the government
and reimbursed by us. As a result of these efforts, we have periodically
identified and reported overpayments. Upon becoming aware of potential
overpayments, we will consider all available facts and circumstances to
estimate and record the amounts to be reimbursed. While we have reimbursed
these overpayments and have taken corrective action where appropriate, we
cannot assure investors that in each instance the government will necessarily
accept these actions as sufficient.

The
process of analyzing, assessing and establishing reserve estimates relative to
legal proceedings involves a high degree of judgment. Management has
established reserves for legal proceedings in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. Changes in facts and circumstances related to
such proceedings could lead to significant revisions to reserve estimates for
such matters and could have a material impact on our results of operations,
cash flows and financial condition in the period that reserve estimates are
revised or paid.

Accounting for and recoverability of
goodwill

Goodwill
is our single largest asset. We evaluate the recoverability and measure the
potential impairment of our goodwill under Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards (“SFAS”) No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”. The annual
impairment test is a two-step process that begins with the estimation of the
fair value of the reporting unit. The first step screens for potential
impairment and the second step measures the amount of the impairment, if any.
Our estimate of fair value considers publicly available information regarding
the market capitalization of our Company, as well as (i) publicly available
information regarding comparable publicly-traded companies in the clinical
testing industry, (ii) the financial projections and future prospects of our
business, including its growth opportunities and likely operational improvements,
and (iii) comparable sales prices, if available. As part of the first step to
assess potential impairment, we compare our estimate of fair value for the
reporting unit to the book value of the reporting unit. If the book value is
greater than our estimate of fair value, we would then proceed to the second
step to measure the impairment, if any. The second step compares the implied
fair value of goodwill with its carrying value. The implied fair value is
determined by allocating the fair value of the reporting unit to all of the
assets and liabilities of that unit as if the reporting unit had been acquired
in a business combination and the fair value of the reporting unit was the
purchase price paid to acquire the reporting unit. The excess of the fair value
of the reporting unit over the amounts assigned to its assets and liabilities
is the implied fair value of goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting
unit’s goodwill is greater than its implied fair value, an impairment loss will
be recognized in the amount of the excess. We believe our estimation methods
are reasonable and reflect common valuation practices.

On
a quarterly basis, we perform a review of our business to determine if events
or changes in circumstances have occurred which could have a material adverse
effect on the fair value of the Company and its goodwill. If such events or
changes in circumstances were deemed to have occurred, we would perform an
impairment test of goodwill as of the end of the quarter, consistent with the
annual impairment test performed at the end of our fiscal year on December
31st, and record any noted impairment loss.


Accounting for stock-based compensation
expense

Effective
January 1, 2006, we adopted SFAS No. 123, revised 2004, “Share-Based Payment”
(“SFAS 123R”), using the modified prospective approach and therefore have not
restated results for prior periods. Pursuant to the provisions of SFAS 123R, we
record stock-based compensation as a charge to earnings net of the estimated
impact of forfeited awards. As such, we recognize stock-based compensation cost
only for those stock-based awards that are estimated to ultimately vest over
their requisite service period, based on the vesting provisions of the
individual grants.

Prior
to the adoption of SFAS 123R, the Company accounted for stock-based
compensation using the intrinsic value method prescribed in Accounting
Principles Board Opinion No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees”
(“APB 25”), and related interpretations and chose to adopt the disclosure-only
provisions of SFAS 123, as amended by SFAS 148. Under this approach, the cost
of restricted stock awards was expensed over their vesting period, while the
imputed cost of stock option grants and discounts offered under the Company’s
Employee Stock Purchase Plan was disclosed, based on the vesting provisions of
the individual grants, but not charged to expense.

The
process of estimating the fair value of stock-based compensation awards and
recognizing stock-based compensation cost over their requisite service period
involves significant assumptions and judgments. We estimate the fair value of
stock option awards on the date of grant using a lattice-based option-valuation
model which requires management to make certain assumptions regarding: (i) the
expected volatility in the market price of the Company’s common stock; (ii)
dividend yield; (iii) risk-free interest rates; and (iv) the period of time
employees are expected to hold the award prior to exercise (referred to as the
expected holding period). The expected volatility under the lattice-based
option-valuation model is based on the current and historical implied
volatilities from traded options of our common stock. The dividend yield is
based on the approved annual dividend rate in effect and current market price
of the underlying common stock at the time of grant. The risk-free interest
rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant
for bonds with maturities ranging from one month to seven years. The expected
holding period of the awards granted is estimated using the historical exercise
behavior of employees. In addition, SFAS 123R requires us to estimate the
expected impact of forfeited awards and recognize stock-based compensation cost
only for those awards expected to vest. We use historical experience to
estimate projected forfeitures. If actual forfeiture rates are materially
different from our estimates, stock-based compensation expense could be
significantly different from what we have recorded in the current period. We
periodically review actual forfeiture experience and revise our estimates, as
considered necessary. The cumulative effect on current and prior periods of a
change in the estimated forfeiture rate is recognized as compensation cost in
earnings in the period of the revision.

Finally,
the terms of our performance share unit grants allow the recipients of such
awards to earn a variable number of shares based on the achievement of the
performance goals specified in the awards. The actual amount of any stock award
is based on the Company’s earnings per share growth as measured in accordance
with its Amended and Restated Employee Long-Term Incentive Plan for the
performance period compared to that of a peer group of companies. Stock-based
compensation expense associated with performance share units is recognized
based on management’s best estimates of the achievement of the performance
goals specified in such awards and the resulting number of shares that will be
earned. If the actual number of performance share units earned is different
from our estimates, stock-based compensation could be significantly different
from what we have recorded in the current period. We periodically obtain and
review publicly available financial information for the members of the peer
group and compare that to actual and estimated future performance of the
Company, including historical earnings per share growth as well as published
estimates of projected earnings per share growth. This information is used to
evaluate our progress towards achieving the performance criteria and our
estimate of the number of performance share units expected to be earned at the
end of the performance period. The cumulative effect on current and prior
periods of a change in the estimated number of performance share units expected
to be earned is recognized as compensation cost in earnings in the period of
the revision. While the assumptions used to calculate and account for
stock-based compensation awards represent management’s best estimates, these
estimates involve inherent uncertainties and the application of management’s
judgment. As a result, if revisions are made to our assumptions and estimates,
our stock-based compensation expense could vary significantly from period to
period. In addition, the number of awards made under our equity compensation
plans, changes in the design of those plans, the price of our shares and the
performance of our Company can all cause stock-based compensation expense to
vary from period to period.

Results of Operations

Our
clinical testing business currently represents our one reportable business
segment. The clinical testing business for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 2007 accounted for more than 90% of net revenues from
continuing operations. Our other operating segments consist of our risk
assessment services business, our clinical trials testing business, our
healthcare information technology business, MedPlus, and our diagnostic
products business. On April 19, 2006, we decided to discontinue the operations
of a test kit manufacturing subsidiary, NID. During the third quarter of 2006,
we completed the wind down of NID and classified the operations of NID as
discontinued operations for all periods presented. Our business segment
information is disclosed in Note 17 to the Consolidated


Financial Statements.

Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared with Year
Ended
December 31, 2006

Continuing
Operations

Income
from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2007 was $554
million, or $2.84 per diluted share, compared to $626 million, or $3.14 per
diluted share in 2006. The decrease in income from continuing operations is
principally due to the impact of the change in contract status with UNH,
discussed earlier under “Recent Changes in Payer Relationships”. However, we
successfully mitigated the ongoing impact during the third quarter of 2007 as a
result of actions taken to reduce costs, and higher reimbursement for the
testing we continue to perform for UNH members. During the second half of the
year our profits, before considering the acquisition of AmeriPath, exceeded
those of the prior year, when we were a contracted provider to UNH. The
acquisition of AmeriPath, which was completed in May 2007, also served to
reduce income from continuing operations compared to the prior year. We expect
the acquisition of AmeriPath to improve our revenue growth and earnings once
the anticipated growth opportunities and cost synergies associated with the
acquisition are realized. Results for the year ended December 31, 2007 include
first quarter pre-tax charges of $10.7 million, or $0.03 per diluted share,
associated with workforce reductions in response to reduced volume levels and
$4.0 million, or $0.01 per diluted share, related to in-process research and
development expense associated with the HemoCue acquisition.

Net
Revenues

Net
revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007 grew by 7.0% over the prior year
level to $6.7 billion. The acquisition of AmeriPath contributed approximately
8% to revenue growth. Our acquisitions of Focus Diagnostics, Enterix and
HemoCue contributed approximately 1.7% to revenue growth. We estimate the
impact of our change in status with UNH reduced revenue growth by approximately
5%.

Our
clinical testing business, which accounted for over 90% of our 2007 net
revenues, grew approximately 5.6% for the year, with AmeriPath contributing
8.3% growth and the change in status with UNH reducing revenues by approximately 5%. Volume, measured by the number of requisitions, declined 4.1% for
the year ended December 31, 2007, primarily due to our change in status with
UNH, which reduced volume by an estimated 7%, partially offset by the impact of the AmeriPath acquisition, which
increased volume by about 3%. Revenue per requisition increased 10.2% for the
year ended December 31, 2007 and was impacted by the results of AmeriPath,
which contributed 5.1% to the improvement, and a 2% increase due to higher reimbursement on the
retained businesss from UNH, which is being reimbursed at a higher rate as a non-contractor provider, with the balance of the increase
primarily driven by a positive test mix.

Our
businesses other than clinical testing accounted for approximately 9% of net
revenues in 2007. These businesses include our risk assessment services
business, our clinical trials testing business, our healthcare information
technology business, MedPlus, and our diagnostics products business. The
revenues for these businesses as a group grew 23% for the year ended December
31, 2007 as compared to the prior year period, with the increase primarily
driven by our acquisitions of HemoCue, Focus Diagnostics and Enterix.

Operating
Costs and Expenses

Total
operating costs and expenses for the year ended December 31, 2007 increased
$473 million from the prior year period. Costs associated with the acquired
operations of AmeriPath, Focus Diagnostics, Enterix and HemoCue increased costs
by approximately $552 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. This
increase was offset in part by actions taken to improve our operating
efficiency and reduce the size of our workforce. Results for the year ended
December 31, 2007 include first quarter charges of $10.7 million associated
with workforce reductions ($3.9 million included in costs of services and $6.8
million in selling, general and administrative) and $4.0 million of in-process
research and development costs associated with the acquisition of HemoCue,
which was recorded in other operating expense, net.

Cost
of services, which includes the costs of obtaining, transporting and testing
specimens, was 59.2% of net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007,
compared to 59.0% of net revenues in 2006. The increase in cost of services as
a percentage of revenues is primarily due to lower volumes in our clinical
testing business and costs associated with workforce reductions. Partially
offsetting these increases were improvements related to the increase in average
revenue per requisition and actions taken to reduce costs.

Selling,
general and administrative expenses, which include the costs of the sales
force, billing operations, bad debt expense and general management and
administrative support, were 24.1% of net revenues during the year ended


December 31,
2007, compared to 22.5% in the prior year period. This increase was primarily
due to lower volume levels in our clinical testing business; costs associated
with workforce reductions; costs associated with efforts to retain business and
clarify for patients, physicians and employers misinformation regarding the UNH
contract change; and the impact of the acquired operations of AmeriPath and
HemoCue. For the year ended December 31, 2007, bad debt expense was 4.5% of net
revenues, compared to 3.9% in the prior year period. The increase was
principally driven by the inclusion of AmeriPath, which carries a higher bad
debt rate than the rest of our business, primarily due to its revenue and
customer mix, and by higher bad debt expense associated with billing patients
directly for a portion of the UNH volume.

Other
operating expense, net represents miscellaneous income and expense items
related to operating activities, including gains and losses associated with the
disposal of operating assets and provisions for restructurings and other
special charges. For the year ended December 31, 2007, other operating expense,
net included a $4.0 million charge related to in-process research and
development expense recorded in connection with the acquisition of HemoCue.

For
the year ended December 31, 2006, other operating expense, net included pre-tax
charges of $27 million principally associated with integration activities
related to LabOne and our operations in California.

Operating
Income

Operating
income for the year ended December 31, 2007 was $1.1 billion, or 16.3% of net
revenues, compared to $1.1 billion, or 18.0% of net revenues, in the prior year
period. The decrease in operating income as a percentage of net revenues was
principally due to lower volume levels in our clinical testing business, the
various items which served to increase cost of services and selling, general and
administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues, and the impact of the
acquired operations of AmeriPath and HemoCue. These decreases were offset in
part by actions we have taken to reduce our cost structure and higher revenue
per requisition.

Other
Income (Expense)

Interest
expense, net for the year ended December 31, 2007 increased $87 million over
the prior year. The increase in interest expense, net was primarily due to
additional interest expense associated with borrowings to fund acquisitions, as
described more fully in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Other
expense, net represents miscellaneous income and expense items related to
non-operating activities such as gains and losses associated with investments
and other non-operating assets. For the year ended December 31, 2007, other
expense, net includes a $4 million charge related to the write-down of an
investment. For the year ended December 31, 2006, other expense, net includes
$26 million of charges related to the write-downs of investments partially
offset by a gain of $16 million on the sale of an investment.

Discontinued
Operations

NID
and the Company each received a subpoena from the United States Attorney’s
Office for the Eastern District of New York during the fourth quarter of 2004.
The subpoenas requested a wide range of business records, including documents
regarding parathyroid hormone (“PTH”) test kits manufactured by NID and PTH
testing performed by the Company. The Company has voluntarily and actively
cooperated with the investigation, providing information, witnesses and
business records of NID and the Company, including documents related to PTH
tests and test kits, as well as other tests and test kits. In the second and
third quarters of 2005, the FDA conducted an inspection of NID and issued a
Form 483 listing the observations made by the FDA during the course of the
inspection. NID responded to the Form 483.

During
the fourth quarter of 2005, NID instituted its second voluntary product hold
within a six-month period, due to quality issues, which adversely impacted the
operating performance of NID. As a result, the Company evaluated a number of
strategic options for NID, and on April 19, 2006, decided to cease operations
at NID. Upon completion of the wind down of operations in the third quarter of
2006, the operations of NID were classified as discontinued operations. During
the third quarter of 2006, the government issued two additional subpoenas, one
to NID and one to the Company. The subpoenas covered various records, including
records related to tests and test kits in addition to PTH.

During
the third quarter of 2007, the government and the Company began settlement
discussions. In the course of those discussions, the government disclosed to
the Company certain of the government’s legal theories regarding the amount
of damages allegedly incurred by the government, which include alleged violations
of civil and criminal statutes including the False Claims Act and the Food,
Drug and Cosmetics Act. Violations of these statutes and related regulations
could lead to a warning letter, injunction, fines or penalties, exclusion from
federal healthcare programs and/or criminal prosecution, as well as claims by
third parties. The Company analyzed the government’s position and presented
its own analysis which argued against many of the government’s claims. In
light of that analysis and based on the status of settlement discussions,  the
Company has established a reserve, in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, reflected in discontinued operations, of $241 million in connection
with these claims. Of the total reserve, $51 million and $190


million were
recorded in the third and fourth quarters, respectively, of 2007. The Company
estimates that the amount reserved represents the minimum expected probable
loss with respect to this matter. The Company does not believe that a
reasonable estimate for these losses in excess of the established reserve can
be made at this time. The Company has recorded a deferred tax benefit
associated with that portion of the reserve that it expects will be
tax deductible. Eventual losses related to these matters may substantially
exceed the reserve, and the impact could be material to the Company’s results
of operations, cash flows and financial condition in the period that such
matters are determined or paid.

The
Company continues to engage in discussions with the United States Attorney’s
Office and those discussions potentially could lead to an agreement in
principle to resolve some or all of the matters in the near future. There can
be no assurance, however, when or whether a settlement may be reached, or as to
its terms. If the Company cannot reach an acceptable settlement agreement with
the United States Attorney’s Office, the Company would defend itself and NID
and could incur significant costs in doing so. See Note 15 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for a further description of these matters.

Loss
from discontinued operations, net of tax, for the year ended December 31, 2007
was $214 million, or $1.10 per diluted share, compared to $39 million, or $0.20
per diluted share in 2006. Results for the year ended December 31, 2007 reflect
a charge of $241 million to establish a reserve as described above. Results for
the year ended December 31, 2006 reflect pre-tax charges of $32 million,
primarily related to the wind down of NID’s operations.

Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared with Year
Ended
December 31, 2005

Continuing
Operations

Income
from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2006 increased to
$626 million, or $3.14 per diluted share, compared to $573 million, or $2.79
per diluted share in 2005. The increase in income from continuing operations
was principally associated with improved performance in our clinical testing
business, driven by organic revenue growth and increases in operating
efficiencies resulting from our Six Sigma, standardization and consolidation
efforts. Results for the year ended December 31, 2006 include pre-tax charges
of $27 million, or $0.08 per diluted share, associated with integration
activities related to LabOne and our operations in California, and $10 million
pre-tax, or $0.03 per diluted share, related to net investment losses. Also,
results for the year ended December 31, 2006, included pre-tax expenses of $55
million, or $0.17 per share, associated with stock-based compensation recorded
in accordance with SFAS 123R.

Net
Revenues

Net
revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006 grew by 15% over the prior year
level to $6.3 billion. The acquisition of LabOne contributed 8% to revenue
growth. Approximately 55% of LabOne’s net revenues are generated from risk
assessment services provided to life insurance companies, with the remainder
classified as clinical testing. The acquisition of Focus Diagnostics, which was
completed on July 3, 2006, contributed approximately half a percent to revenue
growth.

Our
clinical testing business, which accounted for more than 90% of our 2006 net
revenues, grew approximately 10% for the year. The acquisition of LabOne
contributed approximately 4% to the growth in clinical testing net revenues,
principally reflected in volume. The increase in clinical testing revenues was
driven by improvements in both testing volumes, measured by the number of
requisitions, and increases in average revenue per requisition.

For
the year ended December 31, 2006, clinical testing volume increased 5% compared
to the prior year period, principally driven by the acquisition of LabOne.

For
the year ended December 31, 2006, average revenue per requisition improved 5%.
This improvement was primarily attributable to a continuing shift to a more
esoteric test mix, and increases in the number of tests ordered per
requisition. Gene-based and esoteric testing net revenues were over $1 billion
for 2006, and grew greater than 10% compared to the prior year. LabOne’s
clinical testing business carries a lower revenue per requisition than our
average, principally due to a higher concentration of lower priced
drugs-of-abuse testing; and modestly reduced our average revenue per
requisition.

Our
businesses other than clinical testing accounted for approximately 8% of net
revenues in 2006. These businesses include our risk assessment services
business, our clinical trials testing business, our healthcare information
technology business (MedPlus), and our diagnostics products business whose
combined growth rates did not significantly affect our consolidated growth
rate. The risk assessment services business represented approximately 5% of our
net revenues in 2006 with a growth rate of approximately 1% to 2% per year. The
growth in risk assessment services was sluggish during 2006, and was adversely
impacted by an overall decline in the life insurance market, resulting in a
decline in the number of life insurance applicants being tested, partially
offset by growth in paramedical exams and various risk assessment activities
outsourced by life insurance companies.


Operating
Costs and Expenses

Total
operating costs and expenses for the year ended December 31, 2006 increased
$691 million from the prior year period primarily due to the LabOne acquisition
and, to a lesser degree, organic growth in our clinical testing business. The
increased costs were primarily in the areas of employee compensation and
benefits and testing supplies. Employee compensation and benefits included $55
million of stock-based compensation recorded in accordance with SFAS 123R.
While our cost structure had been favorably impacted by efficiencies generated
from our Six Sigma, standardization and consolidation initiatives, we continued
to make investments in sales, service, science and information technology to
further differentiate our Company. These investments included:

Additionally,
during the first quarter of 2006, we recorded $27 million of pre-tax charges in
“other operating expense, net” primarily associated with integration activities
related to LabOne and our operations in California.

Cost
of services, which includes the costs of obtaining, transporting and testing
specimens, was 59% of net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006,
consistent with the prior year.

Selling,
general and administrative expenses, which include the costs of the sales
force, billing operations, bad debt expense and general management and
administrative support, were 22.5% of net revenues during the year ended
December 31, 2006, compared to 22.3% in the prior year period. This increase
was primarily due to stock-based compensation expense recorded in accordance
with SFAS 123R, which increased selling, general and administrative expenses,
as a percentage of net revenues by approximately 1%, offset by revenue growth,
which has allowed us to leverage our expense base, as well as continued
benefits from our Six Sigma, standardization and consolidation efforts. For the
year ended December 31, 2006, bad debt expense was 3.9% of net revenues,
compared to 4.3% in the prior year period. This decrease primarily relates to
the improved collection of diagnosis, patient and insurance information
necessary to more effectively bill for services performed. We believe that our
Six Sigma and standardization initiatives and the increased use of electronic
ordering by our customers will provide additional opportunities to further
improve our overall collection experience and cost structure.

Other
operating expense, net represents miscellaneous income and expense items
related to operating activities, including gains and losses associated with the
disposal of operating assets and provisions for restructurings and other
special charges. For the year ended December 31, 2006, other operating expense,
net included pre-tax charges of $27 million principally associated with
integration activities related to LabOne and our operations in California.

For
the year ended December 31, 2005, other operating expense, net included a $6.2
million charge primarily related to forgiving amounts owed by patients and
physicians, and related property damage as a result of hurricanes in the Gulf
Coast.

Operating
Income

Operating
income for the year ended December 31, 2006 improved to $1.1 billion, or 18.0%
of net revenues, from $1.0 billion, or 18.5% of net revenues, in the prior year
period. The increase in operating income for the year ended December 31, 2006
was principally driven by the performance of our clinical testing business.
Partially offsetting these improvements was $27 million of special charges
recorded in the first quarter of 2006, primarily related to integration
activities and increased investments in MedPlus. Additionally, operating income
for the year ended December 31, 2006 included $55 million of stock-based
compensation expense recorded pursuant to SFAS 123R.

Operating
income as a percentage of net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006
compared to the prior year’s period was reduced by approximately 1% due to
stock-based compensation expense, and by 0.6% due to the results of the LabOne
business, which we expect to continue to carry lower margins than the rest of
our operations until it is fully integrated and we have realized the expected
synergies from the acquisition. Operating income as a percentage of net
revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006 was also reduced by approximately
0.4% due to special charges, primarily related to integration activities.


Other
Income (Expense)

Interest
expense, net for the year ended December 31, 2006 increased $34 million over
the prior year. The increase in interest expense, net was primarily due to
additional interest expense associated with our $900 million senior notes
offering in October 2005 used to fund the LabOne acquisition, as described more
fully in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Other
expense, net represents miscellaneous income and expense items related to
non-operating activities such as gains and losses associated with investments
and other non-operating assets. For the year ended December 31, 2006, other
expense, net includes $26 million of charges related to the write-downs of investments
offset by a gain of $16 million on the sale of an investment.

For
the year ended December 31, 2005, other expense, net includes a $7.1 million
charge associated with the write-down of an investment.

Discontinued
Operations

Our
discontinued operations are comprised of NID, a test kit manufacturing
subsidiary. During the fourth quarter of 2005, NID instituted its second
voluntary product hold within a six-month period, due to quality issues, which
adversely impacted the operating performance of NID. As a result, we evaluated
a number of strategic options for NID, and on April 19, 2006, we decided to
cease operations at NID. During the third quarter of 2006, we completed the
wind down of NID’s operations. Results of NID are reported as discontinued
operations for all periods presented.

Loss
from discontinued operations, net of tax, for the year ended December 31, 2006
increased to $39 million, or $0.20 per diluted share, compared to $27 million,
or $0.13 per diluted share in 2005. Results for the year ended December 31,
2006 reflect pre-tax charges of $32 million, primarily related to the wind down
of NID’s operations. These charges included: inventory write-offs of $7
million; asset impairment charges of $6 million; employee severance costs of
$6 million; contract termination costs of $6 million; facility closure costs
of $2 million; and costs to support activities to wind-down the business, comprised
primarily of employee costs and professional fees, of $5 million.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
About Market Risk

We
address our exposure to market risks, principally the market risk of changes in
interest rates, through a controlled program of risk management that may
include the use of derivative financial instruments. We do not hold or issue
derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. We believe that our
foreign exchange exposure is not material to our consolidated financial
condition or results of operations. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for additional discussion of our financial instruments and hedging
activities.

At
December 31, 2007 and 2006, the fair value of our debt was estimated at
approximately $3.6 billion and $1.6 billion, respectively, using quoted market
prices and yields for the same or similar types of borrowings, taking into
account the underlying terms of the debt instruments. At December 31, 2007 and
2006, the estimated fair value exceeded the carrying value of the debt by
approximately $59.1 million and $0.4 million, respectively. A hypothetical 10%
increase in interest rates on our total debt portfolio (representing
approximately 61 and 59 basis points at December 31, 2007 and 2006,
respectively) would potentially reduce the estimated fair value of our debt by
approximately $78 million and $33 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006,
respectively.

Borrowings
under our senior unsecured revolving credit facility, our secured receivables
credit facility, our term loan due December 2008, and our term loan due May
2012 are subject to variable interest rates. Interest on our secured
receivables credit facility is based on rates that are intended to approximate
commercial paper rates for highly-rated issuers. Interest rates on our senior
unsecured revolving credit facility, term loan due December 2008 and term loan
due May 2012 are subject to a pricing schedule that can fluctuate based on
changes in our credit ratings. As such, our borrowing cost under these credit
arrangements will be subject to both fluctuations in interest rates and changes
in our credit ratings. As of December 31, 2007, the borrowing rates under these
credit facilities were: for our senior unsecured credit facility, LIBOR plus
0.40%; for our term loan due December 2008, LIBOR plus 0.55%; and for our term
loan due May 2012, LIBOR plus 0.50%. At December 31, 2007, the LIBOR rate was
4.60%. At December 31, 2007, there was $1.4 billion outstanding under our term
loan due May 2012, $60 million outstanding under our term loan due December
2008; $100 million outstanding under our secured receivables credit facility
and no borrowings outstanding under our $750 million senior unsecured revolving
credit facility.

During
the third quarter ended September 30, 2007, we entered into various
variable-to-fixed interest rate swap agreements, whereby we fixed the interest
rates on $500 million of our term loan due May 2012 for periods ranging from
October 2007 through October 2009. The fixed interest rates range from 5.095% to
5.267%. Based on our net exposure to interest rate changes, a hypothetical 10%
change in interest rates on our variable rate indebtedness (representing
approximately 51 basis points) would impact annual net interest expense by
approximately $5 million, assuming no changes to the debt outstanding at
December 31, 2007.


The
fair value of the interest rate swap agreements at December 31, 2007 was not
material. A hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates on our term loan
(representing approximately 43 basis points) would potentially decrease the
fair value of these instruments by approximately $3 million. A hypothetical 10%
increase in interest rates would potentially increase the fair value of these
instruments by approximately $3 million. For details regarding our outstanding
debt and our financial instruments, see Notes 10 and 11 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.

Risk
Associated with Investment Portfolio

Our
investment portfolio includes equity investments in publicly held companies
that are classified as available-for-sale securities and other strategic equity
holdings in privately held companies. These securities are exposed to price
fluctuations and are generally concentrated in the life sciences industry. The carrying
values of our available-for-sale equity securities and privately held
securities were $26.2 million at December 31, 2007.

We
do not hedge our equity price risk. The impact of an adverse movement in equity
prices on our holdings in privately held companies cannot be easily quantified,
as our ability to realize returns on investments depends on, among other
things, the enterprises’ ability to raise additional capital or derive cash
inflows from continuing operations or through liquidity events such as initial
public offerings, mergers or private sales.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Cash
and Cash Equivalents

Cash
and cash equivalents at December 31, 2007 totaled $168 million, compared to
$150 million at December 31, 2006. Cash flows from operating activities in 2007
were $927 million which, together with $850 million of cash flows from
financing activities, were used to fund investing activities of $1.8 billion.
Cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2006 totaled $150 million, compared
to $92 million at December 31, 2005. Cash flows from operating activities in
2006 were $952 million which were used to fund financing activities of $480
million, and investing activities of $414 million.

Cash
Flows from Operating Activities

Net
cash provided by operating activities for 2007 was $927 million compared to
$952 million in the prior year period. This decrease was primarily due to lower
earnings in the current year and increased payments associated with variable
compensation earned in the prior year, coupled with the payment of $57 million
of fees and other expenses associated with the acquisition of AmeriPath.
Partially offsetting these items was a net source of funds from reductions in
net accounts receivable in the current year compared to a net use of funds in
the prior year. Days sales outstanding, a measure of billing and collection
efficiency, were 48 days at December 31, 2007 unchanged from December 31, 2006,
despite a two day increase due to the impact of AmeriPath. We expect
AmeriPath’s impact on our days sales outstanding to decrease over time.

Net
cash provided by operating activities for 2006 was $952 million compared to
$852 million in the prior year period. This increase was primarily due to
improved operating performance and the timing of various payments for taxes and
accrued expenses partially offset by an increase in accounts receivable. Days
sales outstanding were 48 days at December 31, 2006 compared to 46 days at
December 31, 2005.

Cash
Flows from Investing Activities

Net
cash used in investing activities in 2007 was $1.8 billion, consisting
primarily of $1.2 billion related to the acquisition of AmeriPath, $309 million
related to the acquisition of HemoCue and capital expenditures of $219 million.

Net
cash used in investing activities in 2006 was $414 million, consisting
primarily of $231 million related to the acquisitions of Focus Diagnostics and
Enterix, and capital expenditures of $193 million. These amounts were partially
offset by $16 million of proceeds from the sale of an investment. The decrease
in capital expenditures compared to the prior year is principally due to the
completion of a new facility in California, for which there were substantial
expenditures in the prior year.

Cash
Flows from Financing Activities

Net
cash provided by financing activities in 2007 was $850 million, primarily
associated with new borrowings and repayments related to the acquisitions of
AmeriPath and HemoCue.

During
the first quarter of 2007, we entered into an interim credit facility (the
“Interim Credit Facility”) and borrowed $450 million to finance the acquisition
of HemoCue and to repay substantially all of HemoCue’s outstanding debt.

During
the second quarter of 2007, we borrowed $1.6 billion under a new five-year term
loan facility and $780 million under a new bridge loan facility to finance the
acquisition of AmeriPath and repay the Interim Credit Facility used


to finance the
HemoCue acquisition.

In
connection with the acquisition of AmeriPath, we repaid substantially all of
AmeriPath’s outstanding debt and related accrued interest. On May 21, 2007, we
commenced a cash tender offer and consent solicitation for the $350 million
10.5% Senior Subordinated Notes of AmeriPath, Inc. due 2013 (“the AmeriPath
subordinated senior notes”). In conjunction with the cash tender offer,
approximately $348 million in aggregate principal amount, or 99.4% of the $350
million of outstanding senior subordinated notes, was tendered. We made
payments of $386 million to holders with respect to the cash tender offer and
consent solicitation, including tender premium and related solicitation fees
and accrued interest.

We
completed an $800 million senior notes offering in June 2007 (the “2007 Senior
Notes”). The 2007 Senior Notes were sold in two tranches: (a) $375 million of
6.40% senior notes due 2017; and (b) $425 million of 6.95% senior notes due
2037. We used the net proceeds from the 2007 Senior Notes offering to repay the
$780 million of borrowings under the bridge loan facility. The 2007 Senior
Notes, term loans and the bridge loan are further described in Note 10 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.

Since
the completion of the AmeriPath acquisition in May 2007, the point during the
year at which our total debt balance was at its highest level, we have reduced
our total debt by $417 million.

Net
cash provided by financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2007,
also included $95 million in proceeds from the exercise of stock options,
including related tax benefits, offset by purchases of treasury stock totaling
$146 million and dividend payments of $77 million. The $146 million of treasury
stock purchases represents 2.8 million shares of our common stock purchased at
an average price of $52.14 per share.

Net
cash used in financing activities in 2006 was $480 million. During 2006, we
repaid $275 million outstanding under our 6¾% senior notes, $60 million of
principal outstanding under our secured receivables credit facility and $75
million under our senior unsecured revolving credit facility. Debt repayments
and acquisitions were funded with cash-on hand and borrowings of $75 million
under our senior unsecured revolving credit facility and $300 million under our
secured receivables credit facility. In addition, we purchased $472 million of
treasury stock, which represents 8.9 million shares of our common stock
purchased at an average price of $53.23 per share, partially offset by $135
million in proceeds from the exercise of stock options, including related tax
benefits. We also paid dividends of $77 million.

Dividend
Program

During
each of the quarters of 2007 and 2006, our Board of Directors declared a
quarterly cash dividend of $0.10 per common share. We expect to fund future
dividend payments with cash flows from operations, and do not expect the
dividend to have a material impact on our ability to finance future growth.

Share
Repurchase Plan

For
the year ended December 31, 2007, we repurchased approximately 2.8 million
shares of our common stock at an average price of $52.14 per share for $146
million. Through December 31, 2007, we have repurchased approximately 44.1
million shares of our common stock at an average price of $45.35 for $2.0
billion under our share repurchase program. At December 31, 2007, the total
available for repurchases under the remaining authorization was $104 million.

Contractual
Obligations and Commitments

The
following table summarizes certain of our contractual obligations as of
December 31, 2007. See Notes 10 and 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for further details.


On
January 1, 2007, we adopted FASB Interpretation No. 48, “Accounting for
Uncertainty in Income Taxes”. As of December 31, 2007, our total liabilities
for unrecognized tax benefits were approximately $108 million, which were
excluded from the table above. Based upon the expiration of statutes of
limitations, settlements and/or the conclusion of tax examinations, we believe
it is reasonably possible that this amount may decrease by up to $33 million
within the next twelve months. For the remainder, we cannot make reasonably
reliable estimates of the timing of the future payments of these liabilities.
See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding
our contingent tax liability reserves.

Our
credit agreements relating to our senior unsecured revolving credit facility,
our term loan due December 2008 and our term loan due May 2012 contain various
covenants and conditions, including the maintenance of certain financial
ratios, that could impact our ability to, among other things, incur additional
indebtedness. We do not expect these covenants to adversely impact our ability
to execute our growth strategy or conduct normal business operations.

Unconsolidated
Joint Ventures

We
have investments in unconsolidated joint ventures in Phoenix, Arizona;
Indianapolis, Indiana; and Dayton, Ohio, which are accounted for under the
equity method of accounting. We believe that our transactions with our joint
ventures are conducted at arm’s length, reflecting current market conditions
and pricing. Total net revenues of our unconsolidated joint ventures equal less
than 6% of our consolidated net revenues. Total assets associated with our
unconsolidated joint ventures are less than 2% of our consolidated total
assets. We have no material unconditional obligations or guarantees to, or in support
of, our unconsolidated joint ventures and their operations.

Requirements
and Capital Resources

We
estimate that we will invest between $280 million and $300 million during 2008 for
capital expenditures to support and expand our existing operations, principally
related to investments in information technology, equipment, and facility
upgrades.

As
of December 31, 2007, $1 billion of borrowing capacity was available under our
existing credit facilities.

We
believe that cash from operations and our borrowing capacity under our credit
facilities will provide sufficient financial flexibility to meet seasonal
working capital requirements and to fund capital expenditures, debt service
requirements, cash dividends on common shares, share repurchases and additional
growth opportunities for the foreseeable future. Our investment grade credit
ratings have had a favorable impact on our cost of and access to capital, and
we believe that our financial performance should provide us with access to
additional financing, if necessary, to fund growth opportunities and any
obligations that cannot be funded from existing sources.

Outlook

As
discussed in the Overview, despite the continued consolidation among healthcare
insurers, and their continued efforts to reduce reimbursement for providers of
diagnostic testing, we believe that the underlying fundamentals of the
diagnostic testing industry will continue to improve and that over the long
term the industry will continue to grow. As the leading provider of diagnostic
testing, information and services with the most extensive network of
laboratories and patient service centers throughout the United States and the
broadest menu of diagnostic tests, we believe we are well positioned to benefit
from the growth expected in our industry.

We
believe our focus on delivering a superior patient experience and Six Sigma
quality as well as the investments we are continuing to make in our
distribution network, our industry leading test menu and our information
technology solutions will further differentiate us over the long-term and
strengthen our industry leadership position. In addition, we plan to leverage
our knowledge and expertise in diagnostic testing to further expand into
international markets and point-of-care testing.

Our
strong cash generation, balance sheet and credit profile position us well to
take advantage of these growth opportunities.

Inflation

We
believe that inflation generally does not have a material adverse effect on our
results of operations or financial condition because the majority of our
contracts are short term.

Impact of New Accounting Standards

In
December 2007, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) SFAS No. 141(R) “Business
Combinations” and SFAS No. 160 “Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated
Financial Statements, an amendment of ARB No. 51”. In September 2007, the FASB
ratified Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 07-1, “Accounting for
Collaborative Agreements”. In February 2007, the FASB


issued SFAS No. 159 “The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets
and Financial Liabilities”. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157
“Fair Value Measurements”. In February 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff
Position No. FAS 157-2 “Effective Date
of FASB Statement No. 157”.

The
impact of these accounting standards is discussed in Note 2 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.


REPORT OF
MANAGEMENT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING

The
management of Quest Diagnostics Incorporated (the “Company”), including its
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, is responsible for
establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting
as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934. Management assessed the effectiveness of the Company’s internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007 based on criteria for
effective internal control over financial reporting described in

“Internal Control – Integrated Framework”

issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
Based on this assessment, management has determined that the Company’s internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007 is effective.

The
Company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
Internal control over financial reporting includes policies and procedures that:
(1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail,
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets
of the Company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded
as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and
that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance
with authorization of management and directors of the Company; and (3) provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use or disposition of assets that could have a material effect on
the consolidated financial statements.

Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not
prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may
become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

Management
has excluded from the scope of its assessment the business of AmeriPath Group
Holdings, Inc. (“AmeriPath”) and POCT Holding AB (“HemoCue”).
Both companies were acquired by the Company in purchase business combinations
during 2007. AmeriPath and HemoCue are wholly owned subsidiaries whose total
excluded assets represent 4.6% and 0.9%, respectively, and total excluded revenues
represent 7.1% and 1.2%, respectively, of the related consolidated
financial statement amounts as of and for the year ended December 31, 2007.

PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP, the independent registered public accounting firm that audited the
financial statements included in this annual report, audited the Company’s
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007 and issued
their audit report expressing an unqualified opinion on the Company’s internal
control over financial reporting.


Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders

of Quest Diagnostics Incorporated

In our
opinion, the consolidated financial
statements listed in the index appearing under Item
15(a)(1) present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position
of Quest Diagnostics Incorporated and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2007 and
2006, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 2007 in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America. In addition, in our opinion, the financial
statement schedule listed in the index appearing under Item 15(a)(2) presents fairly, in all material respects, the
information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related
consolidated financial statements. Also in our opinion, the Company
maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2007, based on criteria established in Internal
Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company’s management is
responsible for these financial statements and the financial statement
schedule, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting
and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting, included in the accompanying Report of Management on Internal
Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions on
these financial statements, on the financial statement schedule, and on the
Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated
audits which were integrated audits in 2007 and 2006. We conducted our audits
in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the
audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over
financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the
financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal
control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of
internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material
weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating
effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also
included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the
circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our
opinions.

As
discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company
changed the manner in which it accounts for share-based compensation in 2006
and the manner in which it accounts for uncertain tax positions in 2007,
respectively.

A company’s
internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over
financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that
(i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail,
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets
of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are
recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with
authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a
material effect on the financial statements.

Because of
its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not
prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may
become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

As
described in the Report of Management on Internal Control over Financial
Reporting, management has excluded AmeriPath Group Holdings, Inc. (“AmeriPath”)
and POCT Holding AB (“HemoCue”) from its assessment of internal control
over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007 because each company was acquired
by the Company in a purchase business combination during 2007. We have also
excluded AmeriPath and HemoCue from our audit of internal control over
financial reporting. AmeriPath and HemoCue are wholly-owned subsidiaries whose
total excluded assets represent 4.6% and 0.9%,
respectively, and total excluded revenues represent 7.1% and 1.2%, respectively,
of the related consolidated financial statement amounts as of and for the year
ended December 31, 2007.

F-1

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

DECEMBER 31, 2007 AND 2006

(in thousands, except per share data)

The
accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

F-2

QUEST
DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2007, 2006 AND 2005

(in thousands, except per share data)

The
accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

F-3

QUEST
DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2007, 2006 AND 2005

(in thousands)

The accompanying notes are an integral part
of these statements.

F-4

QUEST
DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2007, 2006 AND 2005

(in thousands)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

F-5

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS
INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

1. DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

Quest
Diagnostics Incorporated and its subsidiaries (“Quest Diagnostics” or
the
“Company”) is the largest provider of diagnostic testing, information
and services in the United States, providing insights that enable physicians
and other healthcare professionals to make decisions to improve health. Quest
Diagnostics offers patients and physicians the broadest access to diagnostic
laboratory services through the Company’s nationwide network of laboratories
and owned patient service centers. The Company provides interpretive
consultation through the largest medical and scientific staff in the industry,
with approximately 900 M.D.s and Ph.D.s around the country. Quest
Diagnostics is the leading provider of gene-based testing and other esoteric
testing, the leading provider of anatomic pathology services, including dermatopathology,
and the leading provider of testing for drugs-of-abuse. The Company is also a
leading provider of testing for clinical trials, and risk assessment services
for the life insurance industry. The Company’s diagnostics products business
manufactures and markets diagnostic test kits and specialized point-of-care
testing. Quest Diagnostics empowers healthcare organizations and clinicians
with state-of-the-art information technology solutions that can improve patient
care and medical practice.

During
2007, Quest Diagnostics processed approximately 145 million requisitions
through its extensive network of laboratories and patient service centers in
virtually every major metropolitan area throughout the United States.

2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Principles
of Consolidation

The
consolidated financial statements include the accounts of all entities
controlled by the Company through its direct or indirect ownership of a
majority voting interest and the accounts of any variable interest entities, as
defined in Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Interpretation No. 46
“Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities”, where the Company is subject to
a majority of the risk of loss from the variable interest entity’s activities,
or entitled to receive a majority of the entity’s residual returns or both. The
Company’s relationships with variable interest entities were not material at
both December 31, 2007 and 2006. Investments in entities which the Company does
not control, but in which it has a substantial ownership interest (generally
between 20% and 49%) and can exercise significant influence, are accounted for
using the equity method of accounting. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, the
Company’s investments in affiliates accounted for under the equity method of
accounting totaled $37.5 million and $38.5 million, respectively. The Company’s
share of equity earnings from investments in affiliates, accounted for under
the equity method, totaled $27.0 million, $28.5 million and $26.2 million,
respectively, for 2007, 2006 and 2005. All significant intercompany accounts
and transactions are eliminated in consolidation.

Basis
of Presentation

During
the third quarter of 2006, the Company completed its wind-down of NID, a test
kit manufacturing subsidiary, and classified the operations of NID as
discontinued operations. The accompanying consolidated statements of operations
and related disclosures have been prepared to report the results of NID as
discontinued operations for all periods presented. See Note 16 for a further
discussion of discontinued operations.

Use
of Estimates

The
preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of
the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses
during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

F-6

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

Revenue
Recognition

The
Company primarily recognizes revenue for services rendered upon completion of
the testing process. Billings for services reimbursed by third-party payers,
including Medicare and Medicaid, are recorded as revenues net of allowances for
differences between amounts billed and the estimated receipts from such payers.
Adjustments to the estimated receipts, based on final settlement with the
third-party payers, are recorded upon settlement. In 2007, 2006 and 2005,
approximately 17%, 17% and 18%, respectively, of net revenues were generated by
Medicare and Medicaid programs. Under capitated arrangements with healthcare
insurers, the Company recognizes revenue based on a predetermined monthly
reimbursement rate for each member of an insurer’s health plan regardless of
the number or cost of services provided by the Company.

Taxes
on Income

The
Company uses the asset and liability approach to account for income taxes.
Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the
expected future tax consequences of differences between the carrying amounts of
assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases using tax rates in effect
for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. A valuation
allowance is provided when it is more likely than not that some portion or all
of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The effect on deferred tax
assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the
period when the change is enacted.

On
January 1, 2007, the Company adopted FASB Interpretation No. 48 “Accounting for
Uncertainty in Income Taxes” (“FIN 48”). FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for
uncertainty in income taxes recognized in financial statements in accordance
with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 109 “Accounting
for Income Taxes.” FIN 48 provides guidance on recognizing, measuring,
presenting and disclosing in the financial statements uncertain tax positions
that a company has taken or expects to take on a tax return. See Note 5 for
further information related to FIN 48.

Earnings
Per Share

Basic
earnings per common share is calculated by dividing net income by the weighted
average common shares outstanding. Diluted earnings per common share is
calculated by dividing net income, adjusted for the after-tax impact of the
interest expense associated with the Company’s 1¾% contingent convertible
debentures due 2021 (the “Debentures”), by the weighted average common shares
outstanding after giving effect to all potentially dilutive common shares
outstanding during the period. Potentially dilutive common shares include the
dilutive effect of outstanding stock options, performance share units and
restricted common shares granted under the Company’s Amended and Restated
Employee Long-Term Incentive Plan and its Amended and Restated Director
Long-Term Incentive Plan and the Debentures. The Debentures were called for
redemption by the Company in December 2004 and redeemed as of January 18, 2005.

F-7

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

The
computation of basic and diluted earnings per common share (using the
if-converted method) was as follows (in thousands, except per share data):

The
following securities were not included in the diluted earnings per share
calculation due to their antidilutive effect (in thousands):

Stock-Based
Compensation

SFAS
No. 123, “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation” (“SFAS 123”), as amended by
SFAS No. 148, “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation – Transition and
Disclosure – an amendment of FASB Statement No. 123” (“SFAS 148”) encouraged,
but did not require, companies to record compensation cost for stock-based
compensation plans at fair value. In addition, SFAS 148 provided alternative
methods of transition for a voluntary change to the fair value based method of
accounting for stock-based employee compensation, and amended the disclosure
requirements of SFAS 123 to require prominent disclosures in both annual and
interim financial statements about the method of accounting for stock-based
employee compensation and the effect of the method used on reported results.

In
December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123, revised 2004, “Share-Based
Payment” (“SFAS 123R”). SFAS 123R requires that companies recognize
compensation cost relating to share-based payment transactions based

F-8

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

on the fair
value of the equity or liability instruments issued. SFAS 123R is effective for
annual periods beginning after January 1, 2006. The Company adopted SFAS 123R
effective January 1, 2006 using the modified prospective approach and therefore
has not restated results for prior periods. Under this approach, awards that
are granted, modified or settled after January 1, 2006 will be measured and
accounted for in accordance with SFAS 123R. Unvested awards that were granted
prior to January 1, 2006 will continue to be accounted for in accordance with
SFAS 123, as amended by SFAS 148, except that compensation cost will be
recognized in the Company’s results of operations.

Pursuant
to the provisions of SFAS 123R, the Company records stock-based
compensation as a charge to earnings net of the estimated impact of forfeited
awards. As such, the Company recognizes stock-based compensation cost only for those stock-based awards that
are estimated to ultimately vest over their requisite service period, based on
the vesting provisions of the individual grants. The cumulative effect on
current and prior periods of a change in the estimated forfeiture rate is
recognized as compensation cost in earnings in the period of the revision. The
terms of the Company’s performance share unit grants allow the recipients of
such awards to earn a variable number of shares based on the achievement of the
performance goals specified in the awards. The actual amount of any stock award
is based on the Company’s earnings per share growth as measured in accordance
with its Amended and Restated Employee Long-Term Incentive Plan (“ELTIP”) for
the performance period compared to that of a peer group of companies.
Stock-based compensation expense associated with performance share units is
recognized based on management’s best estimates of the achievement of the
performance goals specified in such awards and the resulting number of shares
that will be earned. The cumulative effect on current and prior periods of a
change in the estimated number of performance share units expected to be earned
is recognized as compensation cost in earnings in the period of the revision.
The Company recognizes stock-based compensation expense related to the
Company’s Amended Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”) based on the 15%
discount at purchase. See Note 13 for a further discussion of stock-based
compensation.

Prior
to the adoption of SFAS 123R, the Company accounted for stock-based
compensation using the intrinsic value method prescribed in Accounting
Principles Board Opinion No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees”
(“APB 25”), and related interpretations and chose to adopt the disclosure-only
provisions of SFAS 123, as amended by SFAS 148. Under this approach, the cost
of restricted stock awards was expensed over their vesting period, while the
imputed cost of stock option grants and discounts offered under the Company’s
ESPP was disclosed, based on the vesting provisions of the individual grants,
but not charged to expense. Stock-based compensation expense recorded in
accordance with APB 25, relating to restricted stock awards, was $2.0 million
in 2005.

The
Company has several stock ownership and compensation plans, which are described
more fully in Note 13. The following pro forma information is presented for
comparative purposes and illustrates the pro forma effect on net income and
earnings per share for the period presented, as if the Company had elected to
recognize compensation cost associated with stock option awards and employee
stock purchases under the Company’s ESPP, consistent with the method prescribed
by SFAS 123, as amended by SFAS 148 (in thousands, except per share data):

F-9

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

Foreign
Currency

The
Company predominately uses the U.S. dollar as its functional currency. The
functional currency of the Company’s foreign subsidiaries is the applicable
local currency. Assets and liabilities denominated in non-U.S. dollars are
translated into U.S. dollars at exchange rates as of the end of the reporting
period. Income and expense items are translated at average exchange rates
prevailing during the year. The translation adjustments are recorded as a
component of “accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)” within
stockholders’ equity. Gains and losses from foreign currency transactions are
included within “other operating expense, net” in the consolidated statements
of operations. Transaction gains and losses have not been material.

Cash
and Cash Equivalents

Cash
and cash equivalents include all highly-liquid investments with original
maturities, at the time acquired by the Company, of three months or less.

Concentration
of Credit Risk

Financial
instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit
risk are principally cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and
accounts receivable. The Company’s policy is to place its cash, cash equivalents
and short-term investments in highly rated financial instruments and
institutions. Concentration of credit risk with respect to accounts receivable
is mitigated by the diversity of the Company’s payers and their dispersion
across many different geographic regions, and is limited to certain payers who
are large buyers of the Company’s services. To reduce risk, the Company
routinely assesses the financial strength of these payers and, consequently,
believes that its accounts receivable credit risk exposure, with respect to
these payers, is limited. While the Company has receivables due from federal
and state governmental agencies, the Company does not believe that such
receivables represent a credit risk since the related healthcare programs are
funded by federal and state governments, and payment is primarily dependent on
submitting appropriate documentation.

Accounts
Receivable and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts

Accounts
receivable are reported at realizable value, net of allowances for doubtful
accounts, which is estimated and recorded in the period the related revenue is
recorded. The Company has implemented a standardized approach to estimate and review the
collectibility of its receivables based on a number of factors, including the
period they have been outstanding. Historical collection and payer
reimbursement experience is an integral part of the estimation process related
to allowances for doubtful accounts. In addition, the Company regularly assesses the
state of its billing operations in order to identify issues which may impact
the collectibility of receivables or reserve estimates. Revisions to the allowances for doubtful
accounts estimates are recorded as an adjustment to bad debt expense within
selling, general and administrative expenses. Receivables deemed to be
uncollectible are charged against the allowance for doubtful accounts at the
time such receivables are written-off. Recoveries of receivables previously
written-off are recorded as credits to the allowance for doubtful accounts.

Inventories

Inventories,
which consist principally of testing supplies and reagents, are valued at the
lower of cost (first in, first out method) or market.

Property,
Plant and Equipment

Property,
plant and equipment is recorded at cost. Major renewals and improvements are
capitalized, while maintenance and repairs are expensed as incurred. Costs
incurred for computer software developed or obtained for internal use are
capitalized for application development activities and expensed as incurred for
preliminary project activities and post-implementation activities. Capitalized
costs include external direct costs of materials and services consumed in
developing or obtaining internal-use software, payroll and payroll-related
costs for employees who are directly associated with and who devote time to the
internal-use software project, and interest costs incurred, when material,
while developing internal-use software. Capitalization of such costs ceases when
the project is substantially complete and ready for its intended purpose.
Certain costs, such as maintenance and training, are expensed as incurred. The
Company capitalizes interest on borrowings during the active construction
period of major capital

F-10

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

projects.
Capitalized interest is added to the cost of the underlying assets and is
amortized over the expected useful lives of the assets. Depreciation and
amortization are provided on the straight-line method over expected useful
asset lives as follows: buildings and improvements, ranging from ten to thirty
years; laboratory equipment and furniture and fixtures, ranging from three to
seven years; leasehold improvements, the lesser of the useful life of the
improvement or the remaining life of the building or lease, as applicable; and
computer software developed or obtained for internal use, ranging from three to
seven years.

Goodwill

Goodwill
represents the cost of acquired businesses in excess of the fair value of
assets acquired, including separately recognized intangible assets, less the
fair value of liabilities assumed in a business combination. The Company uses a
nonamortization approach to account for purchased goodwill. Under a
nonamortization approach, goodwill is not amortized, but instead is
periodically reviewed for impairment.

Intangible
Assets

Intangible
assets are recognized as an asset apart from goodwill if the asset arises from
contractual or other legal rights, or if it is separable. Intangible assets,
principally representing the cost of customer relationships, customer lists and
non-competition agreements acquired, are capitalized and amortized on the
straight-line method over their expected useful life, which generally ranges
from five to twenty years. Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives,
consisting principally of acquired tradenames, are not amortized, but instead
are periodically reviewed for impairment.

Recoverability
and Impairment of Goodwill

Under
the nonamortization provisions of SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible
Assets” (“SFAS 142”), goodwill and certain intangibles are periodically
reviewed for impairment and an impairment charge is recorded in the periods in
which the recorded carrying value of goodwill and certain intangibles is more
than its estimated fair value. The provisions of SFAS 142 require that a
goodwill impairment test be performed annually or in the case of other events
that indicate a potential impairment. The annual impairment tests of goodwill
were performed at the end of each of the Company’s fiscal years on December 31

st

and indicated that there was no impairment of goodwill as of December 31, 2007
or 2006.

The
Company evaluates the recoverability and measures the potential impairment of
its goodwill under SFAS 142. The annual impairment test is a two-step process
that begins with the estimation of the fair value of the reporting unit. The
first step screens for potential impairment and the second step measures the
amount of the impairment, if any. Management’s estimate of fair value considers
publicly available information regarding the market capitalization of the
Company as well as (i) publicly available information regarding comparable
publicly-traded companies in the clinical testing industry, (ii) the financial
projections and future prospects of the Company’s business, including its
growth opportunities and likely operational improvements, and (iii) comparable
sales prices, if available. As part of the first step to assess potential
impairment, management compares the estimate of fair value for the reporting
unit to the book value of the reporting unit. If the book value is greater than
the estimate of fair value, the Company would then proceed to the second step
to measure the impairment, if any. The second step compares the implied fair
value of goodwill with its carrying value. The implied fair value is determined
by allocating the fair value of the reporting unit to all of the assets and
liabilities of that unit as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a
business combination and the fair value of the reporting unit was the purchase
price paid to acquire the reporting unit. The excess of the fair value of the
reporting unit over the amounts assigned to its assets and liabilities is the
implied fair value of goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit’s
goodwill is greater than its implied fair value, an impairment loss will be
recognized in the amount of the excess. Management believes its estimation
methods are reasonable and reflective of common valuation practices.

On
a quarterly basis, management performs a review of the Company’s business to
determine if events or changes in circumstances have occurred which could have
a material adverse effect on the fair value of the Company and its goodwill. If
such events or changes in circumstances were deemed to have occurred, the
Company would perform an impairment test of goodwill as of the end of the
quarter, consistent with the annual impairment test, and record any noted
impairment loss.

F-11

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

Recoverability
and Impairment of Intangible Assets and Other Long-Lived Assets

The
Company evaluates the possible impairment of its long-lived assets, including
intangible assets which are amortized pursuant to the provisions of SFAS 142,
under SFAS No. 144, “Accounting for Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived
Assets”. The Company reviews the recoverability of its long-lived assets when
events or changes in circumstances occur that indicate that the carrying value
of the asset may not be recoverable. Evaluation of possible impairment is based
on the Company’s ability to recover the asset from the expected future pretax
cash flows (undiscounted and without interest charges) of the related
operations. If the expected undiscounted pretax cash flows are less than the
carrying amount of such asset, an impairment loss is recognized for the
difference between the estimated fair value and carrying amount of the asset.

Investments

The
Company accounts for investments in equity securities, which are included in
“other assets” in the consolidated balance sheet, in conformity with SFAS No.
115, “Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities”, which
requires the use of fair value accounting for trading or available-for-sale
securities. Both realized and unrealized gains and losses for trading
securities are recorded currently in earnings as a component of non-operating
expenses within “other expense, net” in the consolidated statements of
operations. Unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, for available-for-sale
securities are recorded as a component of “accumulated other comprehensive
income (loss)” within stockholders’ equity. Recognized gains and losses for
available-for-sale securities are recorded in “other expense, net” in the
consolidated statements of operations. Gains and losses on securities sold are
based on the average cost method.

The
Company periodically reviews its investments to determine whether a decline in
fair value below the cost basis is other than temporary. The primary factors
considered in the determination are: the length of time that the fair value of
the investment is below carrying value; the financial condition, operating
performance and near term prospects of the investee; and the Company’s intent
and ability to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for
a recovery in fair value. If the decline in fair value is deemed to be other
than temporary, the cost basis of the security is written down to fair value.

Investments
at December 31, 2007 and 2006 consisted of the following:

Investments
in available-for-sale equity securities consist of equity securities in public
corporations. Investments in trading equity securities represent participant
directed investments of deferred employee compensation and related Company
matching contributions held in a trust pursuant to the Company’s supplemental
deferred compensation plan (see Note 13). Other investments do not have readily
determinable fair values and consist of investments in preferred and common
shares of privately held companies and are accounted for under the cost method.

As
of December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company had gross unrealized losses from
available-for-sale equity securities of $3.5 million and $4.7 million,
respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2007, “other expense, net”,
within the consolidated statements of operations, includes a $4.0 million
charge associated with the write-down of an available-for-sale equity security.
For the year ended December 31, 2006, “other expense, net”, within the
consolidated statements of operations, includes $16.2 million of charges
associated with the write-down of available-for-sale equity securities, $10.0
million of charges associated with the write-down of other investments and a
$15.8 million gain associated with the sale of an investment. For the year
ended December 31, 2005, “other expense, net” includes a $7.1 million charge
associated with the write-down of other investments. For the years ended
December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, gains from trading equity securities totaled
$2.7 million, $3.2 million and $1.6 million, respectively, and are included in
“other expense, net”.

F-12

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

Derivative Financial Instruments

The
Company uses derivative financial instruments to manage its market risks. This
includes the use of interest rate swap agreements to manage its exposure to
movements in interest rates. The Company has established policies and
procedures for risk assessment and the approval, reporting and monitoring of
derivative financial instrument activities. These policies prohibit holding or
issuing derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.

Interest
rate swaps involve the periodic exchange of payments without the exchange of
underlying principal or notional amounts. Net payments are recognized as an
adjustment to interest expense. When the swaps are terminated, unrealized gains
or losses are deferred in stockholders’ equity, as a component of “accumulated
other comprehensive income (loss)”, and are amortized as an adjustment to
interest expense over the shorter of the remaining original term of the hedging
instrument or the remaining life of the underlying debt instrument.

The
Company formally documents its hedge relationships, including identifying the
hedging instruments and the hedged items, as well as its risk management
objectives and strategies for undertaking the hedge transaction. On the date
the derivative is entered into, the Company designates the type of derivative as
a fair value hedge or cash flow hedge, and accounts for the derivative in
accordance with its designation as prescribed by SFAS No. 133, “Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities” (“SFAS 133”), as amended. The
Company currently holds only cash flow hedges, designated as a hedge of the
variability of cash outflows related to the Company’s long-term debt due to
changes in interest rates. Both at inception and at least quarterly thereafter,
the Company also formally assesses whether the derivatives that are used in
hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in the cash
flows of the hedged item. All components of each derivative financial
instrument’s gain or loss are included in the assessment of hedge
effectiveness.

The
Company accounts for derivatives in conformity with SFAS No. 133, as amended,
and records derivatives as either an asset or liability measured at its fair
value. The fair value is based upon quoted market prices obtained from
third-party institutions. For derivatives that have been formally designated as
a cash flow hedge (interest rate swap agreements), the effective portion of
changes in the fair value of the derivatives is recorded in “accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss)”. Changes in the fair value of derivatives are
recorded each period in current earnings or other comprehensive income,
depending on whether a derivative is designated as part of a hedge transaction
and, if it is, the type of hedge transaction based on the specific qualifying
conditions in SFAS 133. Amounts in “accumulated other comprehensive income
(loss)” are reclassified into earnings in “interest expense, net” during the
same period in which the hedged item affects earnings. If it is determined that
a derivative ceases to be a highly effective hedge, the Company discontinues
hedge accounting, and any deferred gains or losses are recorded in the
consolidated statement of operations.

Comprehensive
Income (Loss)

Comprehensive
income (loss) encompasses all changes in stockholders’ equity (except those
arising from transactions with stockholders) and includes net income, net
unrealized capital gains or losses on available-for-sale securities, foreign
currency translation adjustments and deferred gains related to the settlement
of certain treasury lock agreements (see Note 11).

New
Accounting Standards

In
September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157 “Fair Value Measurements” (“SFAS
157”). SFAS 157 provides a new single authoritative definition of fair value
and provides enhanced guidance for measuring the fair value of assets and
liabilities and requires additional disclosures related to the extent to which
companies measure assets and liabilities at fair value, the information used to
measure fair value, and the effect of fair value measurements on earnings. SFAS
157 is effective for the Company as of January 1, 2008 for financial assets and
financial liabilities within its scope and it is not expected to have a
material impact on its consolidated financial statements. In February 2008, the
FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 157-2 “Effective Date of FASB Statement
No. 157” (“FSP FAS 157-2”), which defers the effective date of SFAS 157 for all
non-financial assets and non-financial liabilities, except those that are
recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a
recurring basis (at least annually), for fiscal years beginning after November
15, 2008 and interim periods within those fiscal years for items within the

F-13

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

scope of FSP FAS 157-2. The
Company is currently assessing the impact, if any, of SFAS 157 and FSP FAS
157-2 for non-financial assets and non-financial liabilities on its
consolidated financial statements.

In
February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159 “The Fair Value Option for
Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities” (“SFAS 159”). SFAS 159 provides
companies with an option to irrevocably elect to measure certain financial
assets and financial liabilities at fair value on an instrument-by-instrument
basis with the resulting changes in fair value recorded in earnings. The objective
of SFAS 159 is to reduce both the complexity in accounting for financial
instruments and the volatility in earnings caused by using different
measurement attributes for financial assets and financial liabilities. SFAS 159
is effective for the Company as of January 1, 2008 and as of this effective
date, the Company has elected not to apply the fair value option to any of its
financial assets or financial liabilities.

In
September 2007, the FASB ratified Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 07-1
“Accounting for Collaborative Agreements”, (“EITF 07-1”). EITF 07-1 defines
collaborative agreements as contractual arrangements that involve a joint
operating activity. These arrangements involve two (or more) parties who are
both active participants in the activity and that are exposed to significant
risks and rewards dependent on the commercial success of the activity. EITF
07-1 provides that a company should report the effects of adoption as a change
in accounting principle through retrospective application to all periods and
requires additional disclosures about a company’s collaborative arrangements.
EITF 07-1 is effective for the Company as of January 1, 2009. The adoption of
EITF 07-1 is not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated
financial statements.

In
December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141(R) “Business Combinations” (“SFAS
141(R)”). SFAS 141(R) changes several underlying principles in applying the
purchase method of accounting. Among the significant changes, SFAS 141(R)
requires a redefining of the measurement date of a business combination,
expensing direct transaction costs as incurred, capitalizing in-process
research and development costs as an intangible asset and recording a liability
for contingent consideration at the measurement date with subsequent
re-measurements recorded in the results of operations. SFAS 141(R) also
requires that costs for business restructuring and exit activities related to
the acquired company will be included in the post-combination financial results
of operations and also provides new guidance for the recognition and
measurement of contingent assets and liabilities in a business combination. In
addition, SFAS 141(R) requires several new disclosures, including the reasons
for the business combination, the factors that contribute to the recognition of
goodwill, the amount of acquisition related third-party expenses incurred, the
nature and amount of contingent consideration, and a discussion of pre-existing
relationships between the parties. SFAS 141(R) is effective for the Company as
of January 1, 2009. While the Company is currently assessing the impact of SFAS
141(R) on its consolidated financial statements, the Company expects that upon
adoption of SFAS 141(R), the application of the new standard is likely to have
a significant impact on how the Company allocates the purchase price of an
acquired business, including the expensing of direct transaction costs and
costs to integrate the acquired business.

In
December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160 “Noncontrolling Interests in
Consolidated Financial Statements, an Amendment of ARB No. 51”, (“SFAS 160”).
SFAS 160 establishes accounting and reporting standards for the noncontrolling
interest in a subsidiary and for the deconsolidation of a subsidiary. SFAS 160
requires noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries initially to be measured at
fair value and classified as a separate component of equity. SFAS 160 also
requires a new presentation on the face of the consolidated financial
statements to separately report the amounts attributable to controlling and
non-controlling interests. SFAS 160 is effective for the Company as of January
1, 2009. The Company is currently assessing the impact of SFAS 160 on its
consolidated financial statements.

3. BUSINESS ACQUISITIONS

Acquisitions

Acquisition
of HemoCue

On
January 31, 2007, the Company completed its acquisition of POCT Holding AB
(“HemoCue”), a Sweden-based company specializing in point-of-care testing, in
an all-cash transaction valued at approximately $450 million, including $113
million of assumed debt. HemoCue is the leading international provider in
point-of-care for hemoglobin, with a growing share in professional glucose and
microalbumin testing. In October 2007, HemoCue

F-14

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

received FDA 510(k)
clearance for its White Blood Cell Analyzer, a whole-blood test performed on
finger-stick samples that assist physicians diagnosing infection, inflammation,
bone marrow failure, autoimmune diseases and many other medical conditions now
routinely tested by reference laboratories.

In
conjunction with the acquisition of HemoCue, the Company repaid approximately
$113 million of debt, representing substantially all of HemoCue’s existing
outstanding debt as of January 31, 2007.

The
Company financed the aggregate purchase price of $344 million, which includes
transaction costs of approximately $7 million, of which $2 million was paid in
2006, and the repayment of substantially all of HemoCue’s outstanding debt with
the proceeds from a new $450 million term loan and cash on-hand. On May 31,
2007, the Company refinanced this term loan (see Note 10). In January 2008, the
Company received a payment of approximately $24 million from an escrow fund
established at the time of the acquisition, which reduces the aggregate purchase
price to $320 million.

The
acquisition of HemoCue was accounted for under the purchase method of
accounting. As such, the cost to acquire HemoCue was allocated to the
respective assets and liabilities acquired based on their estimated fair values
as of the closing date. During 2007, the Company finalized its fair value
estimates of the assets and liabilities acquired. The consolidated financial
statements include the results of operations of HemoCue subsequent to the
closing of the acquisition.

The
following table summarizes the Company’s purchase price allocation of the cost
to acquire HemoCue:

The
acquired amortizable intangibles are being amortized over their estimated
useful lives as follows:

In
addition to the amortizable intangibles noted above, $53.8 million was
allocated to tradenames, which is not subject to amortization, and $4.0 million
was allocated to in-process research and development (“IPR&D”). The
IPR&D was expensed in the Company’s results of operations during the first
quarter of 2007, in accordance with FASB Interpretation No. 4, “Applicability
of FASB Statement No. 2 to Business Combinations Accounted for by the Purchase
Method”, and is included in “other operating expense, net” within the
consolidated statements of operations.

F-15

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

Supplemental
pro forma combined financial information has not been presented as the
acquisition is not material to the Company’s consolidated results of
operations.

Acquisition
of AmeriPath

On
May 31, 2007, the Company completed its acquisition of AmeriPath Group
Holdings, Inc. (“AmeriPath”), in an all-cash transaction valued at
approximately $2.0 billion, including approximately $780 million of assumed
debt and related accrued interest. AmeriPath is a leading provider of anatomic
pathology, including dermatopathology, and esoteric testing and generates
annual revenues of approximately $800 million.

Through
the acquisition, the Company acquired all of AmeriPath’s operations. AmeriPath,
with its team of approximately 400 board certified pathologists, operates 40
outpatient anatomic pathology laboratories and provides inpatient anatomic
pathology and medical director services for approximately 200 hospitals
throughout the United States. The Company financed the all-cash purchase price
and related transaction costs, together with the repayment of approximately
$780 million of principal and related accrued interest representing
substantially all of AmeriPath’s debt as well as the refinancing of the term
loan used to finance the acquisition of HemoCue with: $1.6 billion of
borrowings under a new five-year term loan facility, $780 million of borrowings
under a new one-year bridge loan, and cash on-hand. In June 2007, the Company
completed an $800 million senior notes offering. The net proceeds of the senior
notes offering were used to repay the $780 million borrowed under the bridge
loan. See Note 10 for further descriptions of the Company’s debt outstanding.

The
acquisition of AmeriPath was accounted for under the purchase method of
accounting. As such, the cost to acquire AmeriPath was allocated to the
respective assets and liabilities acquired based on their estimated fair values
as of the closing date. A preliminary allocation of the cost to acquire
AmeriPath has been made to certain assets and liabilities of AmeriPath based on
preliminary estimates. The Company is continuing to assess the estimated fair
values of certain of the assets and liabilities acquired. The consolidated
financial statements include the results of operations of AmeriPath subsequent
to the closing of the acquisition.

The
following table summarizes the Company’s preliminary purchase price allocation
of the cost to acquire AmeriPath:

F-16

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

The
acquired amortizable intangibles are being amortized over their estimated
useful lives as follows:

In
addition to the amortizable intangibles noted above, $226 million was allocated
to certain tradenames, which are not subject to amortization.

Of the amount
allocated to goodwill and intangible assets, approximately $100 million is
expected to be deductible for tax purposes.

Acquisitions

Acquisition
of Focus Diagnostics

On
July 3, 2006, the Company completed its acquisition of Focus Technologies
Holding Company (“Focus Diagnostics”) in an all-cash transaction valued at $208
million, including approximately $3 million of assumed debt. Focus Diagnostics
is a leading provider of infectious and immunologic disease testing and
develops and markets diagnostic products. It offers its reference testing
services and diagnostic products to large academic medical centers, hospitals
and commercial laboratories. The Company financed the aggregate purchase price
of $205 million, which included $0.5 million of related transaction costs, and
the repayment of substantially all of Focus Diagnostics’ outstanding debt with
$135 million of borrowings under its secured receivables credit facility and
with cash on-hand.

The
acquisition of Focus Diagnostics was accounted for under the purchase method of
accounting. As such, the cost to acquire Focus Diagnostics was allocated to the
respective assets and liabilities acquired based on their estimated fair values
as of the closing date. The consolidated financial statements include the
results of operations of Focus Diagnostics subsequent to the closing of the
acquisition.

Of
the aggregate purchase price of $205 million, $142 million was allocated to
goodwill, $33 million was allocated to customer relationships that are being
amortized over 10-15 years and $9.1 million was allocated to trade names that
are not subject to amortization. Substantially all of the goodwill is not expected
to be deductible for tax purposes.

Supplemental
pro forma combined financial information has not been presented as the
acquisition is not material to the Company’s consolidated financial statements.

Acquisition
of Enterix

On
August 31, 2006, the Company completed its acquisition of Enterix Inc.
(“Enterix”), a privately held Australia-based company that developed and
manufactures the InSure™ Fecal Immunochemical Test, a Food and Drug
Administration (“FDA”)-cleared test for use in screening for colorectal cancer
and other sources of lower gastrointestinal bleeding, for approximately $44
million in cash. The acquisition is not material to the Company’s consolidated
financial statements.

F-17

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

Acquisition

Acquisition
of LabOne, Inc.

On
November 1, 2005, the Company completed its acquisition of Lab

One

, Inc. (“LabOne”) in a transaction
valued at approximately $947 million, including approximately $138 million of
assumed debt of LabOne. LabOne provides health screening and risk assessment
services to life insurance companies, as well as clinical diagnostic testing
services to healthcare providers and drugs-of-abuse testing to employers.

Under
the terms of the merger agreement, the Company paid $43.90 per common share in
cash or $768 million in total to acquire all of the outstanding common shares
of LabOne. In addition, the Company paid $33 million in cash for outstanding
stock options of LabOne. Pursuant to the terms of the merger agreement, upon
the change in control of LabOne, LabOne’s outstanding stock options became
fully vested and exercisable and were cancelled in exchange for the right to
receive an amount, for each share subject to the stock option, equal to the
excess of $43.90 per share over the exercise price per share of such option.
The aggregate purchase price of $810 million includes transaction costs of
approximately $9 million.

In
conjunction with the acquisition of LabOne, the Company repaid approximately
$127 million of debt, representing substantially all of LabOne’s existing
outstanding debt as of November 1, 2005.

The
Company financed the all cash purchase price and related transaction costs
associated with the LabOne acquisition, and the repayment of substantially all
of LabOne’s outstanding debt with the net proceeds from a $900 million private
placement of senior notes (see Note 10) and cash on-hand.

Through
the acquisition of LabOne, the Company acquired all of LabOne’s operations,
including its health screening and risk assessment services for life insurance
companies, its clinical diagnostic testing services, and its drugs-of-abuse
testing for employers.

Pro
Forma Combined Financial Information

The
following unaudited pro forma combined financial information for the years
ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 assumes that the AmeriPath acquisition and
related financing, including the Company’s June 2007 senior notes offering,
were completed on January 1, 2006. The unaudited pro forma combined financial
information for the year ended December 31, 2005 assumes that the LabOne
acquisition was completed on January 1, 2005. Supplemental pro forma combined
financial information for HemoCue, Focus and Enterix has not been presented as
the acquisitions are not material to the Company’s consolidated results of
operations (in thousands, except per share data).

The
unaudited pro forma combined financial information presented above reflects
certain reclassifications to the historical financial statements of AmeriPath
and LabOne to conform the acquired companies’ accounting policies and
classification of certain costs and expenses to that of Quest Diagnostics.
These adjustments had no impact on pro forma net income. Pro forma results for
the year ended December 31, 2007 exclude transaction related

F-18

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

costs of $44 million, which
were incurred and expensed by AmeriPath in conjunction with its acquisition by
Quest Diagnostics. Pro forma results for the year ended December 31, 2005
exclude $14.3 million of transaction related costs, which were incurred and
expensed by LabOne in conjunction with its acquisition by Quest Diagnostics.

4. INTEGRATION OF ACQUIRED BUSINESSES

Integration
of AmeriPath

During
the fourth quarter of 2007, the Company finalized major components of its plan for
the integration of AmeriPath and recorded the related costs of the integration.
These costs were not material to the Company’s results of operations or cash
flows.

Integration
of LabOne

During
the first quarter of 2006, the Company finalized its plan related to the
integration of LabOne. The plan focuses on rationalizing the Company’s testing
capacity, infrastructure and support services in markets which are served by
both LabOne and Quest Diagnostics.

In
conjunction with finalizing the LabOne integration, the Company recorded $23
million of costs during the first quarter of 2006. The majority of these costs
relate to employee severance. Employee groups affected as a result of this plan
included those involved in the testing of specimens, as well as administrative
and other support functions. Of the total costs indicated above, $21 million
related to actions that impact Quest Diagnostics’ employees and its operations
and were comprised principally of employee severance benefits for approximately
600 employees. These costs were accounted for as a charge to earnings and
included in “other operating expense, net” within the consolidated statements
of operations.

In addition,
$2.6 million of integration costs, related to actions
that impact the employees and operations of LabOne, were accounted for as a
cost of the LabOne acquisition and included in goodwill during the first
quarter of 2006. Of the $2.6 million, $1.2 million related to asset write-offs
with the remainder primarily associated with employee severance benefits for
approximately 95 employees.

As
of December 31, 2007, accruals remaining related to the LabOne integration
totaled $5.8 million.

5. TAXES ON INCOME

The
Company’s pretax income (loss) from continuing operations consisted of $920
million, $1.02 billion and $943 million from U.S. operations and approximately
$(7.1) million, $8.6 million and $7.2 million from foreign operations for the
years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

The
components of income tax expense (benefit) for 2007, 2006 and 2005 were as
follows:

F-19

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

A
reconciliation of the federal statutory rate to the Company’s effective tax
rate for 2007, 2006 and 2005 was as follows:

The
tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to significant portions of
the deferred tax assets (liabilities) at December 31, 2007 and 2006 were as
follows:

At
December 31, 2006, non-current deferred tax assets of $16 million are included
in other long-term assets in the consolidated balance sheet. At December 31,
2007 and 2006, non-current deferred tax liabilities of $210 million and $21 million,
respectively, are included in other long-term liabilities in the consolidated
balance sheet.

As
of December 31, 2007, the Company had estimated net operating loss
carryforwards for federal, state and foreign income tax purposes of $98 million,
$508 million and $33 million, respectively, which expire at various dates
through 2027. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, deferred tax assets associated
with net operating loss carryforwards of $71 million and $29 million,
respectively, have each been reduced by a valuation allowance of $42 million
and $11 million, respectively.

Income
taxes payable including those classified in other long-term liabilities in the
consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2007 and 2006, were $83 million and
$36 million, respectively.

The
Company has identified and categorized its tax positions and these positions
have been evaluated and assessed for recognition and measurement under the
guidelines of FIN 48. The adoption of FIN 48 resulted in an increase to our
contingent tax liability reserves of $30 million with corresponding charges to
retained earnings, goodwill and additional paid-in capital. The contingent
liabilities for tax positions under FIN 48 primarily relate to uncertainties
associated with the realization of tax benefits derived from certain state net
operating loss carry forwards, the allocation of income and expense among state
jurisdictions, the characterization and timing of certain tax deductions
associated with business combinations and employee compensation, and income and
expenses associated with certain intercompany licensing arrangements. As of
January 1, 2007, the amount of unrecognized tax benefits was $92 million which,
if recognized, $46 million would affect the effective tax rate. Included in the
balance of unrecognized tax benefits is approximately $43 million related to
tax positions associated with the intercompany licensing arrangements and the
allocation of income and expenses among state jurisdictions.

The
recognition and measurement of certain tax benefits includes estimates and
judgment by management and inherently includes subjectivity. Changes in
estimates may create volatility in the Company’s effective tax rate in

F-20

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

future periods and may be
due to settlements with various tax authorities (either favorable or
unfavorable), the expiration of the statute of limitations on some tax
positions and obtaining new information about particular tax positions that may
cause management to change its estimates.

The
total amount of unrecognized tax benefits as of and for the year ended December
31, 2007 consists of the following (in thousands):

The
total amount of unrecognized tax benefits as of December 31, 2007, that, if
recognized, would affect the effective tax rate is $45 million. Based upon the
expiration of statutes of limitations, settlements and/or the conclusion of tax
examinations, the Company believes it is reasonably possible that the total
amount of unrecognized tax benefits for the items previously discussed may
decrease by up to $33 million within the next twelve months.

Accruals
for interest expense on contingent tax liabilities are classified in income tax
expense in the consolidated statements of operations. Accruals for penalties
have historically been immaterial. The total amount of interest charged to
earnings for the year ended December 31, 2007 was approximately $6 million. As
of December 31, 2007, the Company has approximately $23 million accrued, net of
the benefit of a federal and state deduction, for the payment of interest on
uncertain tax positions. The Company does not consider this interest part of
its fixed charges.

In
the regular course of business, various federal, state and local and foreign
tax authorities conduct examinations of the Company’s income tax filings and
the Company generally remains subject to examination until the statute of
limitations expires for the respective jurisdiction. After reaching an
agreement at the appeals level of the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”), the
Company settled the 2000 and 2001 tax year audits in April 2007. The IRS has
recently completed their examination of the 2002 and 2003 income tax returns.
The Company has prepared protests for several of the 2002 and
2003 proposed tax adjustments and anticipates that the appeals process will be
completed over the next two years. Certain state tax authorities are conducting
audits for various years between 2000 and 2004. At this time, the Company does
not believe that there will be any material additional payments beyond its
recorded contingent liability reserves that may be required as a result of
these tax audits. As of December 31, 2007, a summary of the tax years that
remain subject to examination for the Company’s major jurisdictions are:

United States – federal

2002 – 2006

United States – various
 states

2000 – 2006

In
conjunction with its acquisition of SmithKline Beecham Clinical Laboratories,
Inc. (“SBCL”), which operated the clinical testing business of SmithKline
Beecham plc (“SmithKline Beecham”), the Company entered into a tax
indemnification arrangement with SmithKline Beecham that provides the parties
with certain rights of indemnification against each other.

F-21

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

6. SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW AND OTHER DATA

7. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

Property,
plant and equipment at December 31, 2007 and 2006 consisted of the following:

F-22

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

8. GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS

Goodwill
at December 31, 2007 and 2006 consisted of the following:

The
changes in the gross carrying amount of goodwill for the years ended December
31, 2007 and 2006 are as follows:

For
the year ended December 31, 2007, the increase in goodwill was primarily
related to the acquisitions of AmeriPath and HemoCue, and the impact on
goodwill as a result of the adoption of FIN 48. (See Notes 3 and 5 for further
discussions). Approximately 90% of the Company’s goodwill as of December 31,
2007 was included in its clinical testing business.

For
the year ended December 31, 2006, the increase in goodwill was primarily
related to the acquisitions of Focus Diagnostics and Enterix, and adjustments
associated with the LabOne purchase price allocation and the LabOne integration
plan. These additions were $142 million, $40 million and $10 million, respectively.
In connection with the Company’s decision to discontinue the operations of NID
in the second quarter of 2006, the Company eliminated the goodwill and related
accumulated amortization associated with NID, which had no impact on goodwill,
net. In addition, goodwill was reduced $2.4 million primarily related to the
favorable resolution of certain pre-acquisition tax contingencies associated
with businesses acquired.

Intangible
assets at December 31, 2007 and 2006 consisted of the following:

F-23

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

Amortization
expense related to intangible assets was $27.9 million, $10.8 million and $4.6
million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

The
estimated amortization expense related to amortizable intangible assets for
each of the five succeeding fiscal years and thereafter as of December 31, 2007
is as follows:

For the
year ended December 31, 2007, the increase in intangible assets not subject to
amortization was due to tradenames resulting from the acquisitions of
AmeriPath, $226 million, and HemoCue, $53.8 million (see Note 3).

For the
year ended December 31, 2006, the increase in intangible assets not subject to
amortization was due to tradenames resulting from the acquisitions of Focus
Diagnostics, $9.1 million, and Enterix, $2.2 million (see Note 3).

9. ACCOUNTS PAYABLE AND ACCRUED EXPENSES

Accounts
payable and accrued expenses at December 31, 2007 and 2006 consisted of the
following:

10. DEBT

Short-term
borrowings and current portion of long-term debt at December 31, 2007 and 2006
consisted of the following:

F-24

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

Long-term
debt at December 31, 2007 and 2006 consisted of the following:

Senior
Unsecured Revolving Credit Facility

In
May 2007, the Company entered into a new $750 million senior unsecured revolving
credit facility (the “Credit Facility”) which replaced the Company’s $500
million senior unsecured revolving credit facility. The Credit Facility matures
in May 2012. Interest on the Credit Facility is based on certain published
rates plus an applicable margin that will vary over a range from 40 basis
points to 125 basis points based on changes in the Company’s public debt
ratings. At the option of the Company, it may elect to enter into LIBOR-based
interest rate contracts for periods up to six months. Interest on any
outstanding amounts not covered under LIBOR-based interest rate contracts is
based on an alternate base rate, which is calculated by reference to the prime
rate or federal funds rate. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company’s borrowing
rate for LIBOR-based loans was LIBOR (4.6% at December 31, 2007) plus 0.40%.
The Credit Facility is guaranteed by certain of the Company’s domestic, wholly
owned subsidiaries (the “Subsidiary Guarantors”). The Credit Facility contains
various covenants, including the maintenance of certain financial ratios, which
could impact the Company’s ability to, among other things, incur additional
indebtedness. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, there were no outstanding
borrowings under the Company’s unsecured revolving credit facilities.

The
Company incurred $3.1 million of costs associated with the Credit Facility,
which is being amortized over the term of the related debt.

Secured
Receivables Credit Facility

In
May 2007, the Company increased its existing receivables securitization
facility (the “Secured Receivables Credit Facility”) from $300 million to $375
million. The Secured Receivables Credit Facility is supported by one-year
back-up facilities provided by two banks on a committed basis and matures on
May 23, 2008. Interest on the Secured Receivables Credit Facility is based on
rates that are intended to approximate commercial paper rates for highly rated
issuers. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company’s borrowing rate under the
Secured Receivables Credit Facility was 5.4% and 5.6%, respectively. Borrowings
outstanding under the Secured Receivables Credit Facility are classified as a
current liability on the Company’s consolidated balance sheet. At December 31,
2007 and 2006, borrowings under the facility totaled $100 million and $300
million, respectively.

Interim Credit Facility

On
January 31, 2007, the Company entered into an interim credit facility (“Interim
Credit Facility”) and borrowed $450 million to finance the acquisition of
HemoCue and to repay substantially all of HemoCue’s outstanding debt.

F-25

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

Term
and Bridge Loan Credit Facilities

On
May 31, 2007, the Company entered into a new five-year term loan facility (the
“Term Loan due 2012”), pursuant to which it borrowed $1.6 billion, and a $1.0
billion bridge loan facility (the “Bridge Loan”), pursuant to which it borrowed
$780 million. The Company used the proceeds to finance the acquisition of
AmeriPath, and related transaction costs, to repay substantially all of
AmeriPath’s outstanding debt and to repay the $450 million outstanding under
the Interim Credit Facility used to finance the acquisition of HemoCue, as
described above.

The
Term Loan due 2012 matures on May 31, 2012 and requires principal repayments of
1.25% of the amount borrowed on the last day of each calendar quarter starting
on September 30, 2007, with the quarterly payments increasing on September 30,
2009 to 2.5% of the amount borrowed and on September 30, 2011 to 17.5% of the
amount borrowed, with the remainder of the outstanding balance due on May 31,
2012. The Term Loan due 2012 is guaranteed by the Subsidiary Guarantors.
Interest under the Term Loan due 2012 is based on certain published rates plus
an applicable margin that will vary over a range from 40 basis points to 125
basis points based on changes in the Company’s public debt ratings. At the
Company’s option, it may elect to enter into LIBOR-based interest rate
contracts for periods up to six months. Interest on any outstanding amounts not
covered under LIBOR-based interest rate contracts is based on an alternate base
rate, which is calculated by reference to the prime rate or federal funds rate.
As of December 31, 2007, the Company’s borrowing rate for LIBOR-based loans was
LIBOR plus 0.50%.

The
Company incurred $7 million of costs associated with the Term Loan due 2012,
which is being amortized over the term of the related debt.

AmeriPath
Debt

In
connection with the acquisition of AmeriPath, the Company repaid substantially
all of AmeriPath’s outstanding debt and related accrued interest, which
approximated $780 million, as well as approximately $31 million representing
the tender premium and solicitation fees related to the Company’s tender offer
and consent solicitation for $350 million aggregate principal amount of 10.5%
Senior Subordinated Notes of AmeriPath, Inc. due 2013 (“the AmeriPath
subordinated senior notes”), which commenced on May 21, 2007.

In
conjunction with the cash tender offer, approximately $348 million in aggregate
principal amount, or 99.4% of the $350 million of outstanding AmeriPath
subordinated senior notes, was tendered. The Company made payments totaling
$386 million to holders of such notes with respect to the cash tender offer and
consent solicitation including tender premium and related solicitation fees and
accrued interest.

Industrial
Revenue Bonds

In
connection with the acquisition of LabOne in November 2005, the Company assumed
$7.2 million of Industrial Revenue Bonds. Principal is payable annually in
equal installments through September 1, 2009. Interest is payable monthly at a
rate adjusted weekly based on LIBOR plus approximately 0.08%. At December 31,
2007 and 2006, the rate was 4.9% and 5.4%, respectively. At December 31, 2007
and 2006, the remaining principal outstanding was $3.6 million and $5.4
million, respectively. The bonds are secured by the Lenexa, Kansas laboratory
facility and an irrevocable bank letter of credit.

Term
Loan due December 2008

On
December 19, 2003, the Company entered into a $75 million amortizing term loan
facility (the “Term Loan due December 2008”), which was funded on January 12,
2004. Interest under the Term Loan due December 2008 is based on LIBOR plus an
applicable margin that can fluctuate over a range of up to 119 basis points,
based on changes in the Company’s public debt rating. At the option of the Company,
it may elect to enter into LIBOR-based interest rate contracts for periods up
to 180 days. Interest on any outstanding amounts not covered under the
LIBOR-based interest rate contracts is based on an alternate base rate, which
is calculated by reference to the prime rate or federal funds rate. As of
December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company’s borrowing rate for LIBOR-based loans
was LIBOR plus 0.55% and 0.50%, respectively. The Term Loan due December 2008
requires principal repayments of the initial amount borrowed equal to 20% on
each of the third and fourth anniversary dates of the funding and the

F-26

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

remainder of
the outstanding balance on December 31, 2008. The Term Loan due December 2008
is guaranteed by the Subsidiary Guarantors and contains various covenants
similar to those under the Credit Facility.

Senior
Notes

In
conjunction with its 2001 debt refinancing, the Company completed a $550
million senior notes offering in June 2001 (the “2001 Senior Notes”). The 2001
Senior Notes were issued in two tranches: (a) $275 million aggregate principal
amount of 6¾% senior notes due 2006 (“Senior Notes due 2006”), issued at a
discount of approximately $1.6 million and (b) $275 million aggregate principal
amount of 7½% senior notes due 2011 (“Senior Notes due 2011”), issued at a
discount of approximately $1.1 million. On July 12, 2006, the Company repaid
the $275 million outstanding under the Senior Notes due 2006. After considering
the discount, the effective interest rate on the Senior Notes due 2011 is 7.6%.
The Senior Notes due 2011 require semiannual interest payments. The Senior Notes
due 2011 are unsecured obligations of the Company and rank equally with the
Company’s other unsecured senior obligations. The Senior Notes due 2011 are
guaranteed by the Subsidiary Guarantors and do not have a sinking fund
requirement.

On
October 31, 2005, the Company completed its $900 million private placement of
senior notes (the “2005 Senior Notes”). The 2005 Senior Notes were priced in
two tranches: (a) $400 million aggregate principal amount of 5.125% senior
notes due November 2010 (“Senior Notes due 2010”); and (b) $500 million
aggregate principal amount of 5.45% senior notes due November 2015 (“Senior
Notes due 2015”). The Company used the net proceeds from the 2005 Senior Notes,
together with cash on-hand, to pay the cash purchase price and transaction
costs of the LabOne acquisition and to repay $127 million of LabOne’s debt. The
Senior Notes due 2010 and 2015 were issued at a discount of $0.8 million and
$1.6 million, respectively. After considering the discounts, the effective interest
rates on the Senior Notes due 2010 and 2015 are approximately 5.3% and 5.6%,
respectively. The 2005 Senior Notes require semiannual interest payments, which
commenced on May 1, 2006. The 2005 Senior Notes are unsecured obligations of
the Company and rank equally with the Company’s other unsecured senior
obligations. The 2005 Senior Notes are guaranteed by the Subsidiary Guarantors.
Under a registration rights agreement executed in connection with the offering
and sale of the 2005 Senior Notes and related guarantees, the
Company filed a registration statement which was declared effective on February
16, 2006, to enable the holders of the 2005 Senior Notes to exchange the notes
and guarantees for publicly registered notes and guarantees and all the holders
exchanged the notes and guarantees for publicly registered notes and
guarantees.

On
June 22, 2007, the Company completed an $800 million senior notes offering (the
“2007 Senior Notes”). The 2007 Senior Notes were priced in two tranches: (a)
$375 million aggregate principal amount of 6.40% senior notes due July 2017
(the “Senior Notes due 2017”), issued at a discount of approximately $0.8
million and (b) $425 million aggregate principal amount of 6.95% senior notes
due July 2037 (the “Senior Notes due 2037”), issued at a discount of
approximately $4.7 million. After considering the discounts, the effective
interest rates on the Senior Notes due 2017 and the Senior Notes due 2037 are
approximately 6.4% and 7.0%, respectively. The 2007 Senior Notes require
semiannual interest payments, which will commence on January 1, 2008. The 2007
Senior Notes are unsecured obligations of the Company and rank equally with the
Company’s other unsecured obligations. The 2007 Senior Notes do not have a
sinking fund requirement and are guaranteed by the Subsidiary Guarantors.

The
Company incurred $6.3 million of costs associated with the 2007 Senior Notes,
which is being amortized over the term of the related debt.

The
Company used the net proceeds from the 2007 Senior Notes to repay the $780
million of borrowings under the Bridge Loan, discussed above.

Debentures
due June 2034

In
connection with the acquisition of LabOne in November 2005, the Company assumed
$103.5 million of 3.50% convertible senior debentures of LabOne due June 15,
2034 (the “Debentures due June 2034”). As a result of the change in control of
LabOne, the holders of the debentures had the right from November 1, 2005 to
December 1, 2005 to: (i) have their debentures repurchased by LabOne for 100%
of the principal amount of the debentures, plus accrued and unpaid interest
thereon through November 30, 2005; or (ii) have their debentures converted into
the amount the respective holder would have received if the holder had
converted the debentures prior to November 1, 2005, plus an additional premium.
As a result of the change in control of LabOne, and as provided in the
indenture to

F-27

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

the debentures, the conversion rate increased so
that each $1,000 principal amount of the debentures was convertible into cash
in the amount of $1,280.88 if converted by December 1, 2005. As a result of the
change in control of LabOne, of the total outstanding principal balance of the
Debentures due June 2034 of $103.5 million, $99 million of principal was
converted for $126.8 million in cash, reflecting a premium of $27.8 million. The
remaining outstanding principal of the Debentures due June 2034 totaling $4.5
million was adjusted to its estimated fair value of $2.9 million, reflecting a
discount of $1.6 million based on the net present value of the estimated
remaining obligations, at then current interest rates. The Debentures due June
2034 require semi-annual interest payments in June and December.

As
of December 31, 2007, long-term debt maturing in each of the years subsequent
to December 31, 2008 is as follows:

11. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

Treasury
Lock Agreements

In
October 2005, the Company entered into interest rate lock agreements with two
financial institutions for a total notional amount of $300 million to lock the
U.S. treasury rate component of a portion of the Company’s offering of its debt
securities in the fourth quarter of 2005 (the “Treasury Lock Agreements”). The
Treasury Lock Agreements, which had an original maturity date of November 9,
2005, were entered into to hedge part of the Company’s interest rate exposure
associated with the minimum amount of debt securities that were issued in the
fourth quarter of 2005. In connection with the Company’s private placement of
its Senior Notes due 2015 on October 25, 2005, the Treasury Lock Agreements
were settled and the Company received $2.5 million, representing the gain on
the settlement of the Treasury Lock Agreements. These gains are deferred in
stockholders’ equity, as a component of “accumulated other comprehensive income
(loss)”, and amortized as an adjustment to interest expense over the term of
the Senior Notes due 2015.

Treasury
Forward Agreements

In
June 2007, the Company entered into forward starting interest rate swap
agreements with three financial institutions for a total notional amount of
$300 million to lock the interest rate of a portion of the Company’s offering
of its debt securities in the second quarter of 2007 (the “Treasury Forward
Agreements”). The Treasury Forward Agreements were entered into to hedge a
portion of the Company’s interest rate exposure associated with the debt
securities that were issued in the second quarter of 2007. In connection with
the Company’s 2007 Senior Notes issued in June 2007, the Treasury Forward
Agreements were settled and the Company paid $3.5 million, representing the loss
on the settlement of the Treasury Forward Agreements. These losses are deferred
in stockholders’ equity, as a component of “accumulated other comprehensive
income (loss)”, and are amortized as an adjustment to interest expense over the
term of the Senior Notes due 2017.

Interest Rate Swap Agreements

In
August 2007, the Company entered into four separate variable-to-fixed interest
rate swap agreements (“the Interest Rate Swap Agreements”), whereby the Company
fixed the interest rates on $500 million of its Term Loan due May 2012 for
periods ranging from October 2007 through October 2009. The fixed interest
rates range from 5.095% to 5.267%.

The
Interest Rate Swap Agreements qualify as cash flow hedges under the
requirements of SFAS 133. As such, gains and losses on the Interest Rate Swap
Agreements are deferred into “accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)”
until the hedged transaction impacts the Company’s earnings. During the year
ended December 31,

F-28

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

2007, the
Company deferred losses of $2.7 million into “accumulated other comprehensive
income (loss)”. The cash flow hedges were effective during 2007.

Fair
Value of Financial Instruments

The
carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable and accounts
payable and accrued expenses approximate fair value based on the short maturity
of these instruments. At December 31, 2007, the fair value of the interest rate
swap agreements was not material. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the fair value
of the Company’s debt was estimated at $3.6 billion and $1.6 billion,
respectively, using quoted market prices and yields for the same or similar
types of borrowings, taking into account the underlying terms of the debt
instruments. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the estimated fair value exceeded
the carrying value of the debt by $59.1 million and $0.4 million, respectively.

12. PREFERRED STOCK AND COMMON STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

Series
Preferred Stock

Quest
Diagnostics is authorized to issue up to 10 million shares of Series Preferred
Stock, par value $1.00 per share. The Company’s Board of Directors has the
authority to issue such shares without stockholder approval and to determine
the designations, preferences, rights and restrictions of such shares. Of the
authorized shares, 1,300,000 shares have been designated Series A Preferred
Stock and 1,000 shares have been designated Voting Cumulative Preferred Stock.
No shares are currently outstanding.

Common
Stock

On
May 4, 2006, the Company’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation was amended to
increase the number of shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, from
300 million shares to 600 million shares.

F-29

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

Accumulated
Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)

The
components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) for 2007, 2006 and
2005 were as follows:

The
market value adjustments for 2007, 2006 and 2005 represented unrealized holding
gains (losses), net of taxes. The reversal of market value adjustments for 2007
and 2006 represents prior periods unrealized holding losses for investments
where the decline in fair value was deemed to be other than temporary in 2007
and 2006 and the resulting loss was recognized in the consolidated statements of
operations (see Note 2). The deferred gain for 2005 represented the $2.5 million the Company
received upon the settlement of its Treasury Lock Agreements, net of amounts
reclassified as a reduction to interest expense. The deferred loss for
2007 represented the $3.5
million the Company paid upon the settlement of its Treasury Forward
Agreements, net of amounts reclassified as an increase to interest expense, and
$2.7 million in deferred losses on its Interest Rate Swap Agreements (see Note
11). Foreign currency translation adjustments are not adjusted for income taxes
since they relate to indefinite investments in non- U.S. subsidiaries.

Dividend
Program

During
each of the quarters of 2007, 2006 and 2005, the Company’s Board of Directors has
declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.10, $0.10 and $0.09 per common share,
respectively.

Share
Repurchase Plan

In
2003, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program,
which permitted the Company to purchase up to $600 million of its common stock.
In July 2004, January 2005 and January 2006, the Company’s Board of Directors
authorized the Company to purchase up to an additional $300 million, $350
million and $600 million, respectively, of its common stock. Under a separate
authorization from the Board of Directors, in December 2004 the Company
repurchased 5.4 million shares of its common stock for approximately $254
million from GlaxoSmithKline plc. For the year ended December 31, 2007, the
Company repurchased 2.8 million shares of

F-30

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

its common
stock at an average price of $52.14 per share for $146 million, and reissued
2.9 million shares in connection with employee benefit plans. For the year
ended December 31, 2006, the Company repurchased 8.9 million shares of its
common stock at an average price of $53.23 per share for $472 million, and
reissued 4.2 million shares in connection with employee benefit plans. For the
year ended December 31, 2005, the Company repurchased 7.8 million shares of its
common stock at an average price of $49.98 per share for $390 million, and
reissued 5.6 million shares and 4.3 million shares, respectively, in connection
with the conversion of its Debentures and for employee benefit plans. At
December 31, 2007, $104 million of the share repurchase authorization remained
available.

13. STOCK OWNERSHIP AND COMPENSATION PLANS

Employee
and Non-employee Directors Stock Ownership Programs

In
2005, the Company established the ELTIP to replace the Company’s prior Employee
Equity Participation Programs established in 1999 (the “1999 EEPP”) and 1996,
as amended (the “1996 EEPP”). The ELTIP provides for three types of awards: (a)
stock options, (b) stock appreciation rights and (c) stock awards. The ELTIP
provides for the grant to eligible employees of either non-qualified or
incentive stock options, or both, to purchase shares of Quest Diagnostics
common stock at a price of no less than the fair market value on the date of
grant. The stock options are subject to forfeiture if employment terminates
prior to the end of the prescribed vesting period, as determined by the Board
of Directors. The stock options expire on the date designated by the Board of
Directors but in no event more than seven years from date of grant for those
granted subsequent to January 1, 2005. Grants of stock appreciation rights
allow eligible employees to receive a payment based on the appreciation of
Quest Diagnostics common stock in cash, shares of Quest Diagnostics common
stock or a combination thereof. The stock appreciation rights are granted at an
exercise price at no less than the fair market value of Quest Diagnostics
common stock on the date of grant. Stock appreciation rights expire on the date
designated by the Board of Directors but in no event more than seven years from
date of grant. No stock appreciation rights have been granted under the ELTIP
or the 1999 EEPP. Under the stock provisions of the plan, the ELTIP allows
eligible employees to receive awards of shares, or the right to receive shares,
of Quest Diagnostics common stock, the equivalent value in cash or a
combination thereof. These shares are generally earned on achievement of
financial performance goals and are subject to forfeiture if employment
terminates prior to the end of the prescribed vesting period, as determined by
the Board of Directors. The actual amount of performance share awards is based
on the Company’s earnings per share growth for the performance period compared
to that of a peer group of companies. Key executive, managerial and technical
employees are eligible to participate in the ELTIP. The provisions of the 1999
EEPP and the 1996 EEPP were similar to those outlined above for the ELTIP.
Certain options granted under the 1999 EEPP and the 1996 EEPP remain
outstanding.

The
ELTIP increased the maximum number of shares of Quest Diagnostics common stock
that may be optioned or granted to 48 million shares. In addition, any
remaining shares under the 1996 EEPP are available for issuance under the
ELTIP.

In
2005, the Company established the Amended and Restated Director Long-Term
Incentive Plan (the “DLTIP”), to replace the Company’s prior plan established
in 1998. The DLTIP provides for the grant to non-employee directors of
non-qualified stock options to purchase shares of Quest Diagnostics common
stock at no less than the fair market value on the date of grant and stock
awards. The stock awards are generally earned on achievement of certain
performance goals specified in the awards. The maximum number of shares that
may be issued under the DLTIP is 2 million shares. The stock options expire seven
years from date of grant and generally become exercisable in three equal annual
installments beginning on the first anniversary date of the grant of the option
regardless of whether the optionee remains a director of the Company. During
2007, 2006 and 2005, grants under the DLTIP totaled 81, 95 and 110 thousand
shares, respectively.

In
general, the Company’s practice has been to issue shares related to its
stock-based compensation program from shares of its common stock held in
treasury. See Note 12 for further information regarding the Company’s share
repurchase program.

The
fair value of each stock option award granted was estimated on the date of
grant using a lattice-based option valuation model. The expected volatility
under the lattice-based option-valuation model was based on the current and the
historical implied volatilities from traded options of the Company’s stock. The
dividend yield was

F-31

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

based on the
approved annual dividend rate in effect and current market price of the
underlying common stock at the time of grant. The risk-free interest rate of
each stock option granted was based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect
at the time of grant for bonds with maturities ranging from one month to seven
years. The expected holding period of the options granted was estimated using
the historical exercise behavior of employees. The weighted average assumptions
used in valuing options granted in the periods presented are:

The
fair value of restricted stock awards and performance share units is the
average market price of the Company’s common stock at the date of grant.

Transactions
under the stock option plans for 2007 were as follows:

The
aggregate intrinsic value in the table above represents the total pre-tax
intrinsic value (the difference between the Company’s closing common stock
price on the last trading day of 2007 and the exercise price, multiplied by the
number of in-the-money options) that would have been received by the option
holders had all option holders exercised their options on December 31, 2007.
This amount changes based on the fair market value of the Company’s common
stock. Total intrinsic value of options exercised in 2007, 2006 and 2005 was
$52 million, $106 million and $98 million, respectively.

As
of December 31, 2007, there was $29 million of unrecognized stock-based
compensation cost related to stock options which is expected to be recognized
over a weighted average period of 1.3 years.

F-32

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

The
following summarizes the activity relative to stock awards, including
restricted stock awards and performance share units, for 2007, 2006 and 2005:

In
the fourth quarter of 2007 and 2006, the Company revised its estimate of the
number of performance share units expected to be earned at the end of the
performance periods as a result of revising its estimates of projected
performance and reduced the number of performance share units by 0.1 million
and 0.6 million, respectively.

As
of December 31, 2007, there was $15 million of unrecognized stock-based
compensation cost related to nonvested stock awards, which is expected to be
recognized over a weighted average period of 1.8 years. Total fair value of
shares vested was $3.8 million, $2.1 million and less than $0.1 million for the
year ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The amount of
unrecognized stock-based compensation cost is subject to change based on
revisions, if any, to management’s best estimates of the achievement of the
performance goals specified in such awards and the resulting number of shares
that will be earned at the end of the performance periods.

For
the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, stock-based compensation
expense totaled $57 million, $55 million and $2.0 million, respectively. Income
tax benefits related to stock-based compensation expense totaled $23 million
and $22 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
Income tax benefits related to stock-based compensation for 2005 were not
material.

Employee Stock Purchase Plan

Under
the Company’s Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”), which was approved by the
Company’s shareholders at the 2006 Annual Meeting of Shareholders,
substantially all employees can elect to have up to 10% of their annual wages
withheld to purchase Quest Diagnostics common stock. The purchase price of the
stock is 85% of the market price of the Company’s common stock on the last
business day of each calendar month. Under the ESPP, the maximum number of
shares of Quest Diagnostics common stock which may be purchased by eligible
employees is 5 million. Approximately 448, 474 and 409 thousand shares of
common stock were purchased by eligible employees in 2007, 2006 and 2005,
respectively.

Defined
Contribution Plans

The
Company maintains qualified defined contribution plans covering substantially
all of its employees, and matches employee contributions up to a maximum of 6%.
The Company’s expense for contributions to its defined contribution plans
aggregated $76 million, $69 million and $64 million for 2007, 2006 and 2005,
respectively.

Supplemental Deferred Compensation Plan

The
Company’s supplemental deferred compensation plan is an unfunded, non-qualified
plan that provides for certain management and highly compensated employees to
defer up to 50% of their eligible compensation in excess of their defined
contribution plan limits. In addition, certain members of senior management
have an additional opportunity to defer up to 95% of their variable incentive
compensation. The compensation deferred under this plan, together with Company
matching amounts, are credited with earnings or losses measured by the mirrored
rate of return on investments elected by plan participants. Each plan participant
is fully vested in all deferred compensation, Company match and earnings
credited to their account. Although the Company is currently contributing all
participant deferrals and matching amounts to a trust, the funds in the trust,
totaling $34 million and

F-33

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

$30 million at December 31,
2007 and 2006, respectively, are general assets of the Company and are subject
to any claims of the Company’s creditors. The Company’s expense for matching
contributions to this plan were approximately $1 million for 2007, 2006 and
2005.

14. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

At
December 31, 2007, GlaxoSmithKline plc (“GSK”), the result of the merger of
Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham in December 2000, beneficially owned
approximately 19% of the outstanding shares of Quest Diagnostics common stock.

Quest
Diagnostics is the primary provider of testing to support GSK’s clinical
trials testing requirements worldwide (as amended, the “Clinical Trials
Agreements”).
Net revenues, primarily derived under the Clinical Trials Agreements were $79
million, $87 million and $69 million for 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

In
addition, under the SBCL acquisition agreements, SmithKline Beecham has agreed
to indemnify Quest Diagnostics, on an after tax basis, against certain matters
primarily related to taxes and billing and professional liability claims.

At
December 31, 2007 and 2006, liabilities included $27 million due to SmithKline
Beecham, primarily related to tax benefits associated with indemnifiable
matters.

15. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

Letter
of Credit Lines and Contractual Obligations

The
Company has lines of credit with two financial institutions totaling $95
million for the issuance of letters of credit (the “letter of credit lines”).
The letter of credit lines, which are renewed annually, mature on November 30,
2008 and December 31, 2008 and are guaranteed by the Subsidiary Guarantors.

In
support of its risk management program, to ensure the Company’s performance or
payment to third parties, $83 million were outstanding on the letter of credit
lines at December 31, 2007. The letters of credit primarily represent
collateral for current and future automobile liability and workers’
compensation loss payments.

Minimum
rental commitments under noncancelable operating leases, primarily real estate,
in effect at December 31, 2007 are as follows:

Operating
lease rental expense for 2007, 2006 and 2005 aggregated $171 million, $153
million and $140 million, respectively. Rent expense associated with operating
leases that include scheduled rent increases and tenant incentives, such as
rent holidays, is recorded on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.

The
Company has certain noncancelable commitments to purchase products or services
from various suppliers, mainly for telecommunications and standing orders to
purchase reagents and other laboratory supplies. At December 31, 2007, the
approximate total future purchase commitments are $87 million, of which $39
million are expected to be incurred in 2008.

F-34

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

Contingent Lease Obligations

The
Company is subject to contingent obligations under certain leases and other
instruments incurred in connection with real estate activities and other
operations associated with LabOne and certain of its predecessor companies. The
contingent obligations arise out of certain land leases with two Hawaiian
trusts relating to land in Waikiki upon which a hotel was built and a land
lease for a parking garage in Reno, Nevada. While its title and interest to the
subject leases have been transferred to third parties, the land owners have not
released the original obligors, including predecessors of LabOne, from their
obligations under the leases. In December 2007, the subtenant of the hotel in
Waikiki emerged from Chapter 11 bankruptcy which it had entered in February
2006. The rent payments under the Hawaiian land leases are subject to market
value adjustments every ten years beginning in 2007. Given that the Hawaiian
land leases are subject to market value adjustments, the total contingent
obligations under such leases cannot be precisely estimated, but are likely to
total several hundred million dollars. The contingent obligation of the Nevada
lease is estimated to be approximately $5.3 million. The Company believes that
the leasehold improvements on the leased properties are significantly more
valuable than the related lease obligations. Based on the circumstances above,
no liability has been recorded for any potential contingent obligations related
to the land leases.

The
Company is involved in various legal proceedings. Some of the proceedings
against the Company involve claims that are substantial in amount.

NID
Investigation

NID
and the Company each received a subpoena from the United States Attorney’s
Office for the Eastern District of New York during the fourth quarter of 2004.
The subpoenas requested a wide range of business records, including documents
regarding parathyroid hormone (“PTH”) test kits manufactured by NID and PTH
testing performed by the Company. The Company has voluntarily and actively cooperated
with the investigation, providing information, witnesses and business records
of NID and the Company, including documents related to PTH tests and test kits,
as well as other tests and test kits. In the second and third quarters of 2005,
the FDA conducted an inspection of NID and issued a Form 483 listing the
observations made by the FDA during the course of the inspection. NID responded
to the Form 483.

During
the fourth quarter of 2005, NID instituted its second voluntary product hold
within a six-month period, due to quality issues, which adversely impacted the
operating performance of NID. As a result, the Company evaluated a number of
strategic options for NID, and on April 19, 2006, decided to cease operations
at NID. Upon completion of the wind-down of operations in the third quarter of
2006, the operations of NID were classified as discontinued operations. During
the third quarter of 2006, the government issued two additional subpoenas, one
to NID and one to the Company. The subpoenas covered various records, including
records related to tests and test kits in addition to PTH.

During
the third quarter of 2007, the government and the Company began settlement
discussions. In the course of those discussions, the government disclosed to
the Company certain of the government’s legal theories regarding the amount
of damages allegedly incurred by the government, which include alleged violations
of civil and criminal statutes including the False Claims Act and the Food,
Drug and Cosmetics Act. Violations of these statutes and related regulations
could lead to a warning letter, injunction, fines or penalties, exclusion from
federal healthcare programs and/or criminal prosecution, as well as claims by
third parties. The Company analyzed the government’s position and presented
its own analysis which argued against many of the government’s claims. In
light of that analysis and based on the status of settlement discussions, the
Company has established a reserve, in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, reflected in discontinued
operations, of $241 million in connection with these claims. Of the total reserve,
$51 million and $190 million were recorded in the third and fourth quarters,
respectively, of 2007. The Company estimates that the amount reserved represents
the minimum expected probable loss with respect to this matter. The Company does
not believe that a reasonable estimate for these losses in excess of the established
reserve can be made at this time. The Company has recorded a deferred tax benefit
associated with that portion of the reserve that it expects will be tax deductible.
Eventual losses related to these matters may substantially exceed the reserve,
and the impact could be material to the Company’s results of operations, cash flows and financial condition
in the period that such matters are determined or paid.

F-35

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

The
Company continues to engage in discussions with the United States Attorney’s
Office and those discussions potentially could lead to an agreement in
principle to resolve some or all of the matters in the near future. There can
be no assurance, however, when or whether a settlement may be reached, or as to
its terms. If the Company cannot reach an acceptable settlement agreement with
the United States Attorney’s Office, the Company would defend itself and NID
and could incur significant costs in doing so.

Other
Matters

The
Company has in the past entered into several settlement agreements with various
government and private payers relating to industry-wide billing and marketing
practices that had been substantially discontinued. The federal or state
governments may bring additional claims based on new theories as to the
Company’s practices which management believes to be in compliance with law. In
addition, certain federal and state statutes, including the qui tam provisions
of the federal False Claims Act, allow private individuals to bring lawsuits
against healthcare companies on behalf of government or private payers alleging
inappropriate billing practices. The Company is aware of certain pending
lawsuits, including a class action lawsuit, and has received several subpoenas
related to billing practices.

During
the second quarter of 2005, the Company received a subpoena from the United
States Attorney’s Office for the District of New Jersey. The subpoena seeks the
production of business and financial records regarding capitation and risk
sharing arrangements with government and private payers for the years 1993
through 1999. Also, during the third quarter of 2005, the Company received a
subpoena from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Office of the
Inspector General. The subpoena seeks the production of various business
records including records regarding our relationship with health maintenance
organizations, independent physician associations, group purchasing
organizations, and preferred provider organizations relating back to as early
as 1995. The Company is cooperating with the United States Attorney’s Office
and the Office of the Inspector General.

During
the second quarter of 2006, each of the Company and its subsidiary, Specialty
Laboratories, Inc. (“Specialty”), received a subpoena from the California
Attorney General’s Office. The subpoenas seek various documents including
documents relating to billings to MediCal, the California Medicaid program. The
subpoenas seek documents from various time frames ranging from three to ten
years. The Company and Specialty are cooperating with the California Attorney
General’s Office. The Company understands that there may be pending qui tam
claims brought by former employees or other “whistle blowers” as to which the
Company cannot determine the extent of any potential liability. The Company
also is aware of certain pending individual or class action lawsuits related to
billing practices filed under the qui tam provisions of the civil False Claims
Act and/or other federal and state statutes, regulations or other laws.

Several
of these other matters are in their early stages of development and involve
responding to and cooperating with various government investigations and
related subpoenas. While the Company believes that at least a reasonable
possibility exists that losses may have been incurred, based on the nature and
status of the investigations, the losses are either currently not probable or
cannot be reasonably estimated.

Management
has established reserves in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles for the other matters discussed above. Such reserves totaled less
than $5 million as of December 31, 2007. Although management cannot predict the
outcome of such matters, management does not anticipate that the ultimate
outcome of such matters will have a material adverse effect on the Company’s
financial condition but may be material to the Company’s results of operations
or cash flows in the period in which the impact of such matters is determined
or paid. However, there may be pending qui tam claims brought by former
employees or other “whistle blowers”, or other pending claims as to which the
Company has not been provided with a copy of the complaint and accordingly
cannot determine the extent of any potential liability.

As
a general matter, providers of clinical testing services may be subject to
lawsuits alleging negligence or other similar legal claims. These suits could
involve claims for substantial damages. Any professional liability litigation
could also have an adverse impact on the Company’s client base and reputation.
The Company maintains various liability insurance coverage for claims that
could result from providing or failing to provide clinical testing services,
including inaccurate testing results and other exposures. The Company’s
insurance

F-36

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

coverage limits its maximum
exposure on individual claims; however, the Company is essentially self-insured
for a significant portion of these claims. Reserves for such matters are
established by considering actuarially determined losses based upon the
Company’s historical and projected loss experience. Management believes that
present insurance coverage and reserves are sufficient to cover currently
estimated exposures. Although management cannot predict the outcome of any
claims made against the Company, management does not anticipate that the
ultimate outcome of any such proceedings or claims will have a material adverse
effect on the Company’s financial condition but may be material to the
Company’s results of operations or cash flows in the period in which the impact
of such claims is determined or paid.

16. DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

During
the fourth quarter of 2005, NID instituted its second voluntary product hold
within a six-month period due to quality issues, which adversely impacted the
operating performance of NID. As a result, the Company evaluated a number of
strategic options for NID. On April 19, 2006, the Company decided to
discontinue NID’s operations. During the third quarter of 2006, the Company
completed its wind down of NID and classified the operations of NID as
discontinued operations. Results of operations for NID have been reported as
discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated statements of
operations and related disclosures for all periods presented.

Summarized
financial information for the discontinued operations of NID is set forth
below:

Results
for 2007 reflect charges of $241 million to establish a reserve in connection
with various government claims (see Note 15). The Company estimates that this
amount represents the minimum expected probable loss with respect to this
matter. The Company does not believe that a reasonable estimate for these
losses in excess of the established reserve can be made at this time. The
Company has recorded a deferred tax benefit associated with that portion of the
reserve that it expects will be tax deductible. Eventual losses
related to these matters may substantially exceed the reserve, and the impact
could be material to the Company’s results of operations, cash flows and
financial condition in the period that such matters are determined or paid.

Results
for 2006 reflect losses from NID’s operations, due to its voluntary product
hold instituted late in the second quarter of 2005 in connection with a quality
review of all its products. In addition, results for 2006 also reflect pre-tax
charges of $32 million, primarily related to the wind down of NID’s operations.
These charges included: inventory write-offs of $7 million; asset impairment
charges of $6 million; employee severance costs of $6 million; contract
termination costs of $6 million; facility closure costs of $2 million; and
costs to support activities to wind-down the business comprised primarily of
employee costs and professional fees of $5 million.

Results
for 2005 reflect losses from NID’s operations, due to its voluntary product
hold instituted late in the second quarter of 2005 in connection with a quality
review of all its products.

The
$241 million reserve established in 2007 in connection with various government
claims is included in “accounts payable and accrued expenses” in the
consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2007. The deferred tax asset
recorded in connection with establishing the reserve is included in “deferred income taxes” in
the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2007. The remaining balance sheet
information related to NID was not material at December 31, 2007 and 2006.

F-37

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

17. BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION

Clinical
testing is an essential element in the delivery of healthcare services.
Physicians use laboratory tests to assist in the detection, diagnosis, evaluation,
monitoring and treatment of diseases and other medical conditions. Clinical
testing is generally categorized as clinical testing and anatomic pathology
testing. Clinical testing is performed on body fluids, such as blood and urine.
Anatomic pathology testing is performed on tissues, including biopsies, and
other samples, such as human cells. Customers of the clinical testing business
include patients, physicians, hospitals, employers, governmental institutions
and other commercial clinical laboratories. The clinical testing business
accounted for greater than 90% of net revenues from continuing operations in
2007, 2006 and 2005.

All
other operating segments include the Company’s non-clinical testing businesses
and consist of its risk assessment services business, its clinical trials
testing business, its healthcare information technology business, MedPlus and
its diagnostics products businesses. The Company’s risk assessment business
provides underwriting support services to the life insurance industry including
teleunderwriting, paramedical examinations, laboratory testing and medical
record retrieval. The Company’s clinical trials testing business provides
clinical testing performed in connection with clinical research trials on new
drugs and vaccines. MedPlus is a developer and integrator of clinical
connectivity and data management solutions for healthcare organizations,
physicians and clinicians. The Company’s diagnostics products business
manufactures and markets diagnostic test kits.

On
April 19, 2006, the Company decided to discontinue NID’s operations and results
of operations for NID have been classified as discontinued operations for all
years presented (see Note 16).

During
the third quarter of 2006, the Company acquired Focus Diagnostics and Enterix,
in the first quarter of 2007, it acquired Hemocue, and in the second quarter of
2007, it acquired AmeriPath (see Note 3). Enterix and Hemocue are included in
the Company’s other operating segments. The majority of Focus Diagnostics’
operations are included in the Company’s clinical testing business, with the
remainder in other operating segments. AmeriPath’s operations are included in
the Company’s clinical testing business.

At
December 31, 2007, substantially all of the Company’s services are provided
within the United States, and substantially all of the Company’s assets are
located within the United States.

In
the fourth quarter of 2006, the Company announced that it would not be a
national contracted provider of laboratory services to United Healthcare Group
Inc. (“UNH”) beginning January 1, 2007. UNH accounted for approximately
7% of the Company’s net revenues in 2006, with some of its regional laboratories
having concentrations as high as 15% to 20%. The Company retained virtually all
of its UNH business through December 31, 2006 and it estimates
that as of December 31, 2007, it retained over 20% of its previously contracted
UNH volume. The Company estimates that no longer being a contracted provider
to UNH reduced its clinical testing volume in 2007 by 7%, most of that resulting
from the direct loss of previously contracted work, and some of it associated
with the loss of other work from physicians who choose to consolidate their testing
with a single laboratory. The impact of the change in status with UNH was the
principal driver of lower earnings in 2007 compared to the prior year, due to
the significant impact it had during the first half of the year. However, the
Company successfully mitigated the ongoing impact during the third quarter of
2007 as a result of actions taken to reduce costs, and higher reimbursement for
the work the Company continues to perform for UNH members.

The
following table is a summary of segment information for the three years ended
December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. Segment asset information is not presented
since it is not reported to or used by the chief operating decision maker at
the operating segment level. Operating earnings (loss) of each segment
represents net revenues less directly identifiable expenses to arrive at
operating income for the segment. General management and administrative
corporate expenses, including amortization of intangible assets, are included
in general corporate expenses below. Certain of the segment information for
2006 presented below has been reclassified to conform to the 2007 presentation.
The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those of the Company as
set forth in Note 2.

F-38

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

F-39

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

18. SUMMARIZED FINANCIAL INFORMATION

The
Company’s Senior Notes due 2010, Senior Notes due 2011, Senior Notes due 2015,
Senior Notes due 2017 and Senior Notes due 2037 are fully and unconditionally
guaranteed by the Subsidiary Guarantors. With the exception of Quest
Diagnostics Receivables Incorporated (see paragraph below), the non-guarantor
subsidiaries are primarily foreign and less than wholly owned subsidiaries. In
January 2005, the Company completed its redemption of all of its outstanding
Debentures. In July 2006, the Company repaid at maturity the $275 million
outstanding under its Senior Notes due 2006.

In
conjunction with the Company’s Secured Receivables Credit Facility, the Company
maintains a wholly owned non-guarantor subsidiary, Quest Diagnostics
Receivables Incorporated (“QDRI”). The Company and certain of its Subsidiary
Guarantors transfer all private domestic receivables to QDRI. QDRI utilizes the
transferred receivables to collateralize borrowings under the Company’s Secured
Receivables Credit Facility. The Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors provide
collection services to QDRI. QDRI uses cash collections principally to purchase
new receivables from the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors.

The
following condensed consolidating financial data illustrates the composition of
the combined guarantors. Investments in subsidiaries are accounted for by the
parent using the equity method for purposes of the supplemental consolidating
presentation. Earnings (losses) of subsidiaries are therefore reflected in the
parent’s investment accounts and earnings. The principal elimination entries
relate to investments in subsidiaries and intercompany balances and
transactions. LabOne, Focus Diagnostics and AmeriPath have been included in the
accompanying condensed consolidating financial data, subsequent to the closing
of the acquisitions, as Subsidiary Guarantors.

F-40

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

Condensed
Consolidating Balance Sheet

December 31, 2007

Condensed
Consolidating Balance Sheet

December 31, 2006

F-41

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

Condensed
Consolidating Statement of Operations

For the Year Ended December 31, 2007

Condensed
Consolidating Statement of Operations

For the Year Ended December 31, 2006

F-42

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

F-43

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

F-44

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

(in thousands, except per share data)

Quarterly Operating Results (unaudited)

F-45

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

SCHEDULE II - VALUATION ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES

(in thousands)

(a)

“Net Deductions and Other”
  primarily represent accounts written-off, net of recoveries.

F-46

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

EXHIBITS TO FORM 10-K

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007

Commission File No. 001-12215

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED

E-1

E-2

E-3

E-4

* Filed herewith.

** Furnished herewith.

‡ Management
  contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to be filed as an
  exhibit to this Form 10-K pursuant to Item 15(b) of Form 10-K.

E-5