
10-K
0001.txt
CHEVRON CORPORATION 2000 FORM 10-K


================================================================================

                UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                    Form 10-K

            |X| ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000
                                -----------------

                                       OR

            |_| TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

  For the transition period from              to
                                 --------            ---------

                         Commission File Number 1-368-2
                                               ---------

                               Chevron Corporation
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

             Delaware                        94-0890210
    -----------------------          --------------------------
(State or other jurisdiction of           (I.R.S. Employer
 incorporation or organization)         Identification Number)

      575 Market Street, San Francisco, California           94105
      -------------------------------------------         ----------
       (Address of principal executive offices)           (Zip Code)


        Registrant's telephone number, including area code (415) 894-7700
                                                            --------------

                                      NONE
         --------------------------------------------------------------
         (Former name or former address, if changed since last report.)

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                  Name of Each Exchange
            Title of Each Class                   on Which Registered
    -----------------------------------------     -----------------------
   Common stock par value $.75 per share          New York Stock Exchange, Inc.
   Preferred stock purchase rights                Chicago Stock Exchange
                                                  Pacific Exchange



Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding 12 months (or for such  shorter  period that the  registrant  was
required  to file  such  reports),  and  (2) has  been  subject  to such  filing
requirements   for   the   past   90   days.   Yes   X   No
                                                  ------   ------


Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation  S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,  to the
best of registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. |X|

Aggregate  market  value  of the  voting  stock  held  by  nonaffiliates  of the
Registrant

 As of February 28, 2001 - $54,753,640,718

 Number of Shares of Common Stock outstanding as of
  February 28, 2001 - 641,094,523

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
                        (To The Extent Indicated Herein)

Notice of Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement Dated March 21, 2001 (in Part III)


================================================================================







                                
Item                                                                Page No.
- ----                                                               ---------
                                    PART I

 1.   Business......................................................    1
         (a)  General Development of Business.......................    1
         (b)  Description of Business and Properties................    3
                Capital and Exploratory Expenditures................    4
              Petroleum - Exploration and Production................    5
                    Liquids and Natural Gas Production..............    5
                  Acreage...........................................    6
                  Reserves and Contract Obligations.................    7
                    Development Activities..........................    8
                    Exploration Activities..........................    9
                    Review of Ongoing Exploration and
                     Production Activities In Key Areas.............    9
              Petroleum - Natural Gas Liquids.......................   14
              Petroleum - Refining..................................   14
              Petroleum - Refined Products Marketing................   15
              Petroleum - Transportation............................   17
              Chemicals.............................................   18
              Coal..................................................   18
              Electronic Commerce and Technology....................   19
              Research and Environmental Protection.................   19
 2.   Properties....................................................   20
 3.   Legal Proceedings.............................................   20
 4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders...........   20
      Executive Officers of the Registrant..........................   21

                                    PART II

 5.   Market for the Registrant's Common Equity
      and Related Stockholder Matters...............................   22
 6.   Selected Financial Data.......................................   22
 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
      Condition and Results of Operations...........................   22
 8.   Financial Statements..........................................   22
 8.   Supplementary Data   - Quarterly Results......................   22
                           - Oil and Gas Producing Activities.......   22
 9.   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants
      on Accounting and Financial Disclosure........................   22

                                   PART III

10.   Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant............   23
11.   Executive Compensation........................................   23
12.   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
       and Management...............................................   23
13.   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions................   23

                                    PART IV

14.   Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and
       Reports on Form 8-K..........................................   23
      Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts...............   25






                                     PART I

Item 1.  Business

     (a)  General Development of Business

Summary Description of Chevron
- ------------------------------
Chevron Corporation(1),  a Delaware corporation, manages its investments in, and
provides  administrative,  financial and management support to, U.S. and foreign
subsidiaries   and  affiliates  that  engage  in  fully   integrated   petroleum
operations,  chemicals operations,  coal mining and energy services. The company
operates in the United States and approximately  100 other countries.  Petroleum
operations  consist of exploring  for,  developing  and producing  crude oil and
natural gas;  refining  crude oil into finished  petroleum  products;  marketing
crude  oil,  natural  gas and the many  products  derived  from  petroleum;  and
transporting crude oil, natural gas and petroleum products by pipelines,  marine
vessels,  motor  equipment  and  rail  car.  Chemicals  operations  include  the
manufacture and marketing of commodity  petrochemicals,  plastics for industrial
uses and fuel and lubricating oil additives.

In this report, exploration and production of crude oil, natural gas liquids and
natural  gas may be  referred to as "E&P" or  "upstream"  activities.  Refining,
marketing  and  transportation  may be  referred  to as "RM&T"  or  "downstream"
activities.  A list of the company's major subsidiaries is presented on page E-2
of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. As of December 31, 2000,  Chevron had 34,610
employees,  73 percent of whom were employed in U.S.  operations.  Approximately
5,500, or 22 percent, of the company's U.S. employees are unionized.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS RELEVANT TO FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION FOR THE
                   PURPOSE OF "SAFE HARBOR" PROVISIONS OF THE
                PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995

     This  annual  report  on  Form  10-K  contains  forward-looking  statements
relating  to  Chevron's  operations  that  are  based  on  management's  current
expectations,  estimates  and  projections  about the  petroleum  and  chemicals
industries.   Words  such  as  "anticipates,"   "expects,"  "intends,"  "plans,"
"projects,"   "believes,"  "seeks,"  "estimates"  and  similar  expressions  are
intended to identify such forward-looking  statements.  These statements are not
guarantees of future performance and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties
and other  factors,  some of which are  beyond our  control,  are  difficult  to
predict  and could  cause  actual  results  to differ  from those  expressed  or
forecasted in the  forward-looking  statements.  Therefore,  actual outcomes and
results may differ  materially  from what is  expressed  or  forecasted  in such
forward-looking  statements.  You  should  not  place  undue  reliance  on these
forward-looking  statements,  which  speak  only as of the date of this  report.
Unless legally required, Chevron undertakes no obligation to update publicly any
forward-looking  statements,  whether  as a result  of new  information,  future
events or otherwise.
     Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ  materially are
crude oil and natural  gas  prices;  refining  margins  and  marketing  margins;
chemicals  prices and  competitive  conditions  affecting  supply and demand for
aromatics,   olefins  and  additives  products;  actions  of  competitors;   the
competitiveness   of   alternate   energy   sources  or   product   substitutes;
technological developments; inability of the company's joint-venture partners to
fund their share of operations and development activities;  potential failure to
achieve  expected  production  from existing and future oil and gas  development
projects;  potential  delays in the  development,  construction  or  start-up of
planned  projects;  the ability to  successfully  consummate the proposed merger
with  Texaco  and  successfully  integrate  the  operations  of both  companies;
potential   disruption  or   interruption   of  the   company's   production  or
manufacturing  facilities  due  to  accidents  or  political  events;  potential
liability  for  remedial   actions  under   existing  or  future   environmental
regulations  and  litigation;  significant  investment or product  changes under
existing  or  future   environmental   regulations   (including,   particularly,
regulations   and   litigation    dealing   with   gasoline    composition   and
characteristics);  and  potential  liability  resulting  from  pending or future
litigation.  In addition,  such statements could be affected by general domestic
and international  economic and political  conditions.  Unpredictable or unknown
factors  not  discussed  herein  also could  have  material  adverse  effects on
forward-looking statements.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(1)Incorporated  in Delaware in 1926 as Standard Oil Company of California,  the
company  adopted the name Chevron  Corporation  in 1984. As used in this report,
the term "Chevron" and such terms as "the company,"  "the  corporation,"  "our,"
"we," and "us" may refer to Chevron Corporation, one or more of its consolidated
subsidiaries,  or to all of them  taken  as a whole,  but  unless  it is  stated
otherwise,  does not include  "affiliates"  of Chevron - i.e.,  those  companies
accounted  for by the equity  method  (generally  owned 50 percent or less),  or
investments accounted for by the cost method.

As used in this  report,  the term  "Caltex"  may refer to the  Caltex  Group of
companies, any one company of the group, any of their consolidated subsidiaries,
or to all of them  taken  as a whole,  and also  includes  the  "affiliates"  of
Caltex.

All of these  terms are used for  convenience  only,  and are not  intended as a
precise description of any of the separate companies,  each of which manages its
own affairs.



                                      -1-




Overview of Petroleum Industry
- ------------------------------
Petroleum industry  operations and profitability are influenced by many factors,
over  some of  which  individual  oil and gas  companies  have  little  control.
Governmental  policies,  particularly  in the areas of taxation,  energy and the
environment, have a significant impact on petroleum activities, regulating where
and how companies  conduct their operations and formulate their products and, in
some cases,  limiting their profits  directly.  Prices for crude oil and natural
gas,  petroleum  products and petrochemicals are determined by supply and demand
for these  commodities.  OPEC member  countries  are typically the world's swing
producers  of crude  oil,  and their  production  levels  are a major  factor in
determining  worldwide supply. Demand for crude oil and its products and natural
gas is  largely  driven  by the  condition  of  local,  national  and  worldwide
economies,  although  weather  patterns  and  taxation  relative to other energy
sources also play a  significant  part.  Natural gas is  generally  produced and
consumed on a country or regional basis.

Operating Environment
- ---------------------
Refer to page FS-2 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K in Management's Discussion
and Analysis of Financial  Condition and Results of Operations  for a discussion
on the company's current operating environment and outlook.

Chevron Strategic Priorities
- ----------------------------
Chevron's  strategic  objective is to exceed the  financial  performance  of its
strongest  industry  competitors  in  terms  of total  stockholder  return.  The
company's  overriding goal is to achieve the highest total stockholder return in
its peer group for the five-year  period 2000 - 2004.  To achieve its goal,  the
company has targeted a 15 percent  annual  growth rate in earnings per share for
the three-year  period 2000 - 2002,  supported by worldwide  liquids and natural
gas  production  growth of 4 to 4.5 percent  per year,  and a minimum 12 percent
return on capital employed.

To attain these financial and operational  targets,  the company has established
four key priorities:

o    Operational Excellence:  Safe, reliable, efficient and environmentally
     sound operations throughout are the top priority for the company. The
     company seeks to ensure it achieves sustainable improvements in its
     operations.

o    Cost  Reduction:  The  company  will  continue to focus on ways of reducing
     costs  across its  activities.  As  examples,  the company has seen ongoing
     successes in cost reduction in the areas of energy  consumption  and global
     procurement of goods and services.

o    Capital Stewardship: The company is implementing work processes designed to
     ensure that it employs  capital  funding most  efficiently.  This  involves
     decision-making   tools  aimed  at  selecting  the  most   financially  and
     strategically attractive projects.  Additionally, the company has developed
     processes  to ensure the  execution  of  projects  is  efficient,  bringing
     projects to completion on time and within budgeted expenditures.

o    Profitable  Growth:  The  company  will seek  continued  growth in its core
     businesses  -  exploration   and   production,   refining,   marketing  and
     transportation,  and chemicals.  The company is also looking to capture new
     opportunities,  such as  investing  in power  and gas  through  its  Dynegy
     affiliate,  new process  technologies  - including a method for  converting
     natural gas to liquids - and information and Internet technologies.

Supporting these four priorities is a continued and improved focus on:

o    Organizational Capability: The company has developed strategies to build
     capability systems to achieve top performance in the four priorities
     described above.

Chevron-Texaco Merger Agreement
- -------------------------------
In October  2000,  Chevron and Texaco  announced an agreement to combine the two
companies into an integrated global energy company.  Upon approval by regulatory
authorities  and  stockholders  of both  companies,  and  fulfillment  of  other
conditions,  Chevron  will  issue  0.77 of its  common  shares for each share of
Texaco  stock.  The  new  company  -  ChevronTexaco   Corporation  -  will  have
significantly enhanced positions in upstream and downstream operations, a global
chemicals business, a growth platform in power generation,  and industry-leading
skills in technology  innovation.  Synergistic  savings of at least $1.2 billion
are expected within six to nine months of the merger.



                                      -2-


In advance of the merger approval by various regulatory authorities, Chevron and
Texaco  work  teams  have been  actively  planning  the  integration  of the two
companies,  subject to customary legal  restrictions on exchange of data between
competitors.  In February  2001,  the top 50 executives of the combined  company
were  announced.  At the  same  time,  a  proposed  organization  structure  was
outlined.  The principal  executive officers who will constitute a new Office of
the Chairman will be Chairman and CEO David O'Reilly (currently Chairman and CEO
of  Chevron)  and Vice  Chairmen  Richard  Matzke  (currently  Vice  Chairman of
Chevron)  and  Glenn  Tilton  (currently  Chairman  and  CEO of  Texaco).  Three
corporate  executive vice  presidents  will report to the office of the chairman
and have  individual  responsibility  for  downstream  (refining  marketing  and
transportation);   power,  chemicals  and  technology;  and  administrative  and
corporate services. Upstream (exploration and production) businesses will report
to Mr. Matzke.

On March 1, 2001, the European Union announced that it had approved the proposed
merger.  Approvals are pending from the U. S. Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and
other  agencies.  Until  consummation  of the merger,  Chevron and Texaco remain
competitors and continue to conduct  day-to-day  business under the laws dealing
with competitive practices for any independent company.

     (b)  Description of Business and Properties

The  company's   largest  business   segments  are  exploration  and  production
(upstream) and refining, marketing and transportation (downstream). Chemicals is
also a significant  operation,  conducted  mainly by the  company's  affiliate -
Chevron Phillips  Chemical Company LLC. The petroleum  activities of the company
are widely dispersed geographically,  with upstream and downstream operations in
the United States and Canada and upstream operations in Nigeria,  Angola,  Chad,
Equatorial Guinea,  Republic of Congo,  Democratic Republic of Congo, Australia,
the United Kingdom, Norway, China, Papua New Guinea, Thailand, Argentina, Brazil
and Venezuela.  The company's  Caltex  affiliate,  through its  subsidiaries and
affiliates,  conducts  exploration  and production and geothermal  operations in
Indonesia and refining and  marketing  activities  in Asia,  Africa,  the Middle
East,  Australia and New Zealand,  with major  operations  in Korea,  Australia,
Thailand,   the   Philippines,   Singapore  and  South  Africa.   The  company's
Tengizchevroil  affiliate  conducts  production  activities in  Kazakhstan.  The
company  expects to expand its operations in the Caspian Region by exploring for
crude  oil  and  natural  gas,   expanding  the  production  and  transportation
infrastructure,   developing  new  crude  oil  and  natural  gas  markets,   and
identifying other business opportunities.

The company's Dynegy Inc. (Dynegy)  affiliate is one of the leading marketers of
energy  products and services in the United States with  customers in the United
States,  Canada, the United Kingdom and other European  countries.  Its business
activities include energy marketing; independent power generation; gathering,
processing,  selling and  transportation of natural gas and natural gas liquids;
and  broadband   trading.   In  February  2000,   Dynegy  merged  with  Illinova
Corporation,  an energy services holding company based in Illinois.  The company
expects that this merger will accelerate Dynegy's growth in the power generation
and marketing business.

The  company's  Chevron  Phillips  Chemical  Company  LLC (CPCC)  affiliate  has
operations in the United States, Belgium,  China, South Korea, Singapore,  Saudi
Arabia and Mexico. CPCC commenced  operations in July 2000 when Chevron combined
most of its  petrochemicals  businesses with those of Phillips Petroleum Company
into a 50-50  joint  venture.  The  company's  wholly  owned  Oronite  additives
business has operations in the United States,  France,  Netherlands,  Singapore,
Japan and Brazil.

Tabulations  of segment sales and other  operating  revenues,  earnings,  income
taxes and assets, by United States and  International  geographic areas, for the
years  1998 to  2000,  may be  found  in Note 10 to the  consolidated  financial
statements  beginning  on page  FS-21 of this  Annual  Report on Form  10-K.  In
addition,  similar comparative data for the company's  investments in and income
from equity affiliates and property,  plant and equipment are contained in Notes
13 and 14 on pages FS-24 to FS-25.

The company's  worldwide  operations can be affected  significantly  by changing
economic,  tax, regulatory and political  environments in the various countries,
including the United States, in which it operates. Environmental regulations and
government  policies concerning  economic  development,  energy and taxation may
have a significant effect on the company's operations.  Management evaluates the
economic and political risk of initiating,  maintaining or expanding  operations
in  any  geographical  area.  The  company  closely  monitors  political  events
worldwide  and  the


                                      -3-


possible  threat these may pose to its activities -  particularly  the company's
oil and gas  exploration  and  production  operations  - and the  safety  of the
company's employees.

The company attempts to avoid  unnecessary  involvement in partisan  politics in
the communities in which it operates but  participates in the political  process
to  safeguard  its assets and to ensure  that the  community  benefits  from its
operations and remains receptive to its continued presence.

A discussion of the company's use of derivative financial  instruments to manage
its exposure to price risk stemming from its integrated  petroleum activities is
contained on page FS-6 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

       Capital and Exploratory Expenditures

Worldwide capital and exploratory (C&E)  expenditures  totaled $5.153 billion in
2000,  compared  with  $6.133  billion in 1999.  Expenditures  for  consolidated
worldwide exploration and production decreased by 35 percent between years. This
decrease  was  driven by the  absence in 2000 of two  significant  international
exploration  and production  acquisitions in 1999,  which totaled  approximately
$1.7 billion:  the  Rutherford-Moran  Oil  Corporation in Thailand and Petrolera
Argentina  San Jorge S.A. in  Argentina.  Consolidated  international  refining,
marketing  and  transportation  expenditures  increased  by 114  percent in 2000
driven by  additional  investments  in the Caspian  Pipeline  Consortium,  which
continued  construction  of  pipeline  facilities  linking  the Tengiz  Field in
Kazakhstan  with  the  Russian  Black  Sea  port of  Novorossiysk.  Consolidated
chemicals  expenditures were 70 percent lower in 2000 following the formation of
CPCC,  which is accounted for under the equity  method.  All Other  expenditures
increased by over 300 percent  between  years as the company made an  additional
investment of about $300 million in Dynegy Inc.

The company's share of affiliates' capital expenditures  increased by 24 percent
between years to $967 million,  driven by higher  expenditures  by the company's
Tengizchevroil and Dynegy Inc. affiliates.

Chevron's C&E expenditures  during 2000 and 1999 are summarized in the following
table:



The company's 2001 C&E expenditures,  including its share of equity  affiliates'
expenditures,  are projected at $6 billion, 16 percent higher than 2000 spending
levels.  The company  plans to invest $3.7  billion,  or 62 percent of its total
spending, in worldwide exploration and production, of which $1.2 billion will be
expended in the United States.  About $1.4 billion will be invested in worldwide
refining, marketing and transportation activities. Investments in chemicals will
be about $250 million with about $650 million targeted for all other activities,
including power and natural gas facilities and distribution, and technology. The
spending plans  discussed  above are for Chevron as a stand-alone  entity and do
not  reflect  the impact of the pending  merger  with  Texaco.  They also do


                                      -4-


not include the  acquisition of an additional 5 percent  equity  interest in the
Tengizchevroil project in Kazakhstan, which closed in January 2001.

       Petroleum - Exploration and Production

Liquids and Natural Gas Production
The following  table  summarizes the company's and affiliates' net production of
crude oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas for 2000 and 1999.




In 2000, Chevron conducted its worldwide  exploration and production  operations
in the United States and  approximately 25 other countries.  Worldwide net crude
oil and  natural  gas  liquids  production,  including  that of  affiliates  but
excluding volumes produced under operating service agreements, increased for the
eighth  consecutive  year by nearly 3 percent from the 1999 levels.  Net liquids
production  in the  United  States  fell  slightly.  International  net  liquids
production,  including  affiliates,  increased  by about 4 percent in 2000 - the
eleventh  consecutive  year  of  production  increases.  This  increase  was due
primarily  to a full year of  production  in Argentina  and  Thailand  following
acquisitions  the company  made in 1999;  higher  production  from new fields in
Angola;  and


                                      -5-


higher  production  in  Australia.  These  increases  were  partially  offset by
production declines in Indonesia, Colombia and the United Kingdom.

Net production of natural gas, including affiliates,  fell by 2 percent in 2000.
United States  production  fell about 5 percent,  as normal field  declines more
than  offset  new and  enhanced  production  from the Gulf of  Mexico  shelf and
deepwater  Gulf of Mexico.  International  volumes  increased 4 percent in 2000.
Higher  production from the Argentina and Thailand  properties  acquired in 1999
were slightly offset by lower production in Canada due to normal field declines.

Acreage
At December 31, 2000, the company owned or had under lease or similar agreements
undeveloped and developed oil and gas properties  located  throughout the world.
Undeveloped  acreage  includes  undeveloped  proved  acreage.  The  geographical
distribution of the company's acreage is shown in the next table.



Refer to Table III on pages  FS-34 to FS-36 of this  Annual  Report on Form 10-K
for  data  about  the  company's  average  sales  price  per unit of oil and gas
produced,  as well as the average  production  cost per unit for 2000,  1999 and
1998. The following table  summarizes gross and net productive wells at year-end
2000 for the company and its affiliates.

                                      -6-





Reserves and Contract Obligations
Table IV on pages FS-36 and FS-37 of this Annual  Report on Form 10-K sets forth
the  company's  net proved  oil and gas  reserves,  by  geographic  area,  as of
December 31, 2000,  1999 and 1998.  During 2001, the company will file estimates
of oil and gas  reserves  with the  Department  of  Energy,  Energy  Information
Agency.  Those  estimates are consistent  with the reserve data reported on page
FS-37 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

In 2000,  Chevron's worldwide oil and equivalent-gas (BOE) barrels of net proved
reserves additions  exceeded  production for the eighth consecutive year, with a
replacement  rate  of  152  percent  of  net  production,  including  sales  and
acquisitions.  Excluding sales and  acquisitions,  the replacement  rate was 132
percent of net  production.  The following  table  summarizes  the company's net
additions  to net proved  reserves  of crude oil and  natural  gas  liquids  and
natural gas, compared with net production during 2000.




The  company  sells  crude  oil and gas from its  producing  operations  under a
variety of contractual arrangements. Most contracts generally commit the company
to sell quantities based on production from specified properties but


                                      -7-


certain  gas  sales  contracts   specify  delivery  of  fixed  and  determinable
quantities. In the United States, the company is obligated to sell substantially
all of the natural gas  produced and owned or  controlled  by the company in the
lower 48 states to Dynegy  Inc.  Outside  the  United  States,  the  company  is
contractually  committed  to deliver  approximately  110  billion  cubic feet of
natural gas through 2003 from Australian and U.K. reserves and approximately 375
billion  cubic  feet of  natural  gas post 2003  through  2020  from  Australian
reserves only.  Substantially  all of these contracts  include  variable-pricing
terms.  The company  believes it can satisfy  these  contracts  from  quantities
available from production of the company's proved developed  Australian and U.K.
natural gas reserves.

Development Activities
- ----------------------
Details of the company's  development  expenditures and costs of proved property
acquisitions  for 2000,  1999 and 1998 are presented in Table I on page FS-33 of
this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

The table below  summarizes  the company's  net interest in  productive  and dry
development  wells  completed  in each of the past three years and the status of
the company's  development  wells  drilling at December 31, 2000. A "development
well" is a well drilled within the proved area of an oil or gas reservoir to the
depth of a  stratigraphic  horizon  known  to be  productive.  "Wells  drilling"
include wells temporarily suspended.





                                      -8-


Exploration Activities
- ----------------------
The following table summarizes the company's net interests in productive and dry
exploratory  wells  completed  in each of the last three years and the number of
exploratory wells drilling at December 31, 2000.




"Exploratory wells" are wells drilled to find and produce oil or gas in unproved
areas and  include  delineation  wells,  which are wells  drilled  to find a new
reservoir in a field  previously found to be productive of oil or gas in another
reservoir  or to  extend  a known  reservoir  beyond  the  proved  area.  "Wells
drilling" include wells temporarily  suspended.  The company had $400 million of
suspended  exploratory  wells  included in  properties,  plant and  equipment at
year-end  2000,  an increase of $26 million  from 1999.  Decreases in the United
States were more than offset by increases in Angola, China and Canada. The wells
are suspended pending a final  determination of the commercial  potential of the
related  oil and gas fields.  The  ultimate  disposition  of these well costs is
dependent on: (1) decisions on additional  major capital  expenditures,  (2) the
results of additional  exploratory  drilling that is underway or firmly planned,
and in some cases, (3) securing final regulatory approvals for development.

Details of the company's exploration expenditures and costs of unproved property
acquisitions  for 2000,  1999 and 1998 are presented in Table I on page FS-33 of
this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Review of Ongoing Exploration and Production Activities in Key Areas
- --------------------------------------------------------------------
Chevron's 2000 key upstream activities not discussed in Management's  Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  beginning on page
FS-2 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K are presented  below. In addition to the
activities  discussed,  Chevron was active in other geographic  areas, but these
activities were of less significance.

A)       United  States

United States  exploration and production  activities are  concentrated in about
300 fields located in the Gulf of Mexico, Texas, the Rocky Mountains, California
and Alaska.  Some of the  company's  more  significant  activities in the United
States are described below.

Chevron has  interests in three  deepwater  developments  in the Gulf of Mexico.
Genesis,  Chevron's first deepwater  operation,  located in 2,600 feet of water,
began  production  in January  1999.  Chevron is  operator  and has a 57 percent
interest in Genesis,  which reached peak total  production of 58,000  barrels of
crude oil and 86 million  cubic feet of gas per day in September  2000.  Average
total  production  for 2001 is estimated  at 42,000  barrels of crude oil and 54
million  cubic feet of gas per day.  Chevron  has a 40 percent  interest  in the
Gemini deepwater  development  located in Mississippi  Canyon Block 292 in 3,400
feet of water.  Initial production  occurred in June 1999. Total production from
Gemini averaged 131 million cubic feet of gas per day in 2000. Typhoon is

                                      -9-



Chevron's  third deepwater  development,  in 2,000 feet of water, in the Gulf of
Mexico. Initial production from Typhoon is scheduled for third quarter 2001. The
platform will support  production  facilities  for 40,000  barrels of oil and 60
million  cubic feet of gas per day.  Chevron is the  operator  with a 50 percent
interest.

An aggressive 2000 well drilling program in the Gulf of Mexico Shelf enabled the
company to develop  opportunities to offset field declines in production to less
than 2 percent between years. Chevron has interests in the Viosca Knoll Trend in
the  Gulf of  Mexico  shelf  and in 2000  continued  to  focus  on  establishing
production from additional gas reservoirs.  Total  production  increased from 70
million  cubic feet of gas per day at the  beginning  of the year to 240 million
cubic feet of gas per day at year-end.  Total  production is expected to average
200  million  cubic  feet of gas per day in 2001.  The  2001-2003  program  will
provide continued exploration and development of the Viosca Knoll area.

Development  of the Destin  Dome area of the  Norphlet  trend  offshore  Florida
continues to be hampered by delays in obtaining  regulatory  approvals.  A draft
environmental  impact  statement  (EIS) was issued  August 1999 by the governing
agencies indicating no significant environmental impacts had been found. In July
2000,  Chevron and its partners in the Destin Dome  development  filed a lawsuit
against the federal government to recover  exploration  expenses and future lost
profits  following  continuing  delays in obtaining  the  necessary  development
permits.

Onshore  California,  Chevron  continued  to expand its use of thermal  enhanced
recovery  techniques  to  increase  the  production  rate and the  amount of oil
ultimately  recoverable  from fields in the San  Joaquin  Valley,  with  efforts
focused on the Cymric Field. Average 2000 production from the San Joaquin Valley
fields was 104,000 barrels of oil and 112 million cubic feet of gas per day.

B)       Africa

Nigeria:  Chevron's  principal  subsidiary in Nigeria,  Chevron  Nigeria Limited
(CNL),  operates and holds a 40 percent interest in 11 concessions  totaling 2.3
million acres, predominantly in the swamp and near offshore regions of the Niger
Delta.  During 1999, CNL's onshore and swamp area concessions were renewed for a
second  30-year term.  CNL's  offshore  concessions  expire in 2008. The renewal
process for the offshore  concessions  is provided for under the same statute as
for the concessions renewed in 1999. Application for renewal must be made before
one year of a concession's expiration. Based on the requirements of Nigerian law
concerning  concession  renewal,  as  well as the  prior  industry  and  company
experience  with  renewals,  the company fully  expects  renewal of the offshore
concessions to be approved.  Chevron Oil Company Nigeria Limited (COCNL) holds a
20 percent  interest in six  concessions,  covering  600,000 acres,  operated by
Texaco.  Chevron  Petroleum  Nigeria  Limited  (CPNL)  oversees  and manages new
venture  activities in Nigeria.  CPNL has a 30 percent interest in one deepwater
Niger Delta block  operated by Elf.  CPNL  interests  in Benue Basin blocks were
relinquished  after  the  drilling  of  exploratory  dry holes  indicated  a low
probability of hydrocarbon presence. Chevron participated in Nigeria's deep- and
ultra-deep  water  2000  bid  round.  Chevron  was  awarded  interests  in three
deepwater oil prospecting  licenses,  one as operator with a 50 percent interest
and 30  percent  non-operating  interests  in the  other  two.  Chevron  and its
partners  expect to develop work  programs for the three newly  acquired  blocks
during 2001.

Total 2000  production  averaged  430,000  barrels  of  liquids  per day from 33
CNL-operated  fields and  approximately  47,000  barrels of oil per day from the
COCNL fields. Both production amounts were slightly higher than 1999.

Processing  capacity at the  Escravos gas plant  increased to 285 million  cubic
feet per day with start-up of Phase 2 of the project in the fourth quarter 2000,
representing  another  significant  step toward reducing flaring of natural gas.
Front-end  engineering and design for Phase 3, which will expand  gas-processing
capacity  to 680 million  cubic feet per day,  is  expected to begin  during the
second  quarter  of 2001.  Feasibility  engineering  and  preliminary  technical
evaluations are nearing completion for a Gas-to-Liquids (GTL) plant proposed for
construction in Escravos. The proposed 33,000  barrels-per-day  Escravos project
is  expected  to be the first  project  to use the  technology  and  operational
expertise of a global GTL joint venture between Chevron and Sasol Limited.

Chevron is the Managing  Sponsor of a consortium  of six energy  companies  that
plans to develop a 600-mile gas  transmission  pipeline to connect  suppliers in
the Western Delta region of Nigeria to power generation and industrial customers
in Benin,  Ghana,  and Togo.  Subject to  successful  negotiation  of concession
conditions with the  governments,  commercial  operations could commence by late
2003 or 2004.

                                      -10-


Angola: The company is the operator of two concessions, Blocks 0 and 14, off the
coast of Angola's Cabinda Province.  Block 0 is a 2,100  square-mile  concession
adjacent to the Cabinda coastline in which Chevron has an approximate 39 percent
interest.  Block 14 is a 1,560-square-mile  deepwater concession located west of
Block 0, in which Chevron has a 31 percent interest.

Block 0 total crude oil production during 2000 averaged 448,000 barrels per day,
down from an average of 460,000 in 1999,  mainly due to normal  field  declines.
Area A of Block 0 includes 23 major fields, with 15 fields currently  producing.
In 2000,  35  development  wells were  completed in Area A. The Kungulo and Vuko
fields,  part of the Area A Waterflood  Major Project,  achieved first injection
from a new water  injection  platform  in May 2000.  Area B  includes  six major
fields.  The  Kokongo,  Lomba  and the  southern  part of the Nemba  Field  have
undergone the initial stages of development and are currently on production.  In
Area B, three additional  infill wells in South Nemba resulted in 17,000 barrels
of oil per day of incremental gross production. An additional infill program was
initiated in Kokongo Field and will be completed during 2001. Future development
plans also include  installation of the North Nemba production and gas injection
platform  in 2001.  North  Nemba  development  drilling  is expected to add over
40,000 barrels per day of gross  production by 2002. Area C includes seven major
fields. The N'Dola and Sanha fields are currently on production.

Six fields have been discovered in Block 14 - Kuito, Landana,  Benguela, Belize,
Tomboco  and Lobito.  The Kuito  Field,  Angola's  first  deepwater  production,
averaged over 61,000  barrels of oil per day in 2000.  Kuito is being  developed
using a  phased  approach.  Phases  1A and 1B well  programs  are  complete  and
construction activities have commenced on Phase 1C, with first oil scheduled for
the third  quarter  2001.  Tomboco  and  Lobito  were two  significant  Block 14
discoveries  made in 2000.  These wells are located in the  vicinity of three of
the  previously  discovered  fields.  The  appraisal  drilling  program  for the
Benguela,  Belize and Tomboco  Fields was  completed in early 2000.  Development
plans call for a centralized  drilling and production  platform for the Benguela
and Belize Fields.  Tomboco will be a satellite to this facility.  The impact of
the nearby Lobito Field,  discovered and appraised in 2000,  will be included in
engineering  studies during 2001. Study of the Landana Field continues,  with an
appraisal well planned in 2001.

Republic of Congo: Chevron has interests in three partner-operated license areas
- - Haute Mer,  Marine VII and Mer Profonde Sud - in offshore  Congo,  adjacent to
Chevron's  concessions in Angola.  Net production from Chevron's  concessions in
the  Republic of Congo  averaged  about 25,000  barrels per day in 2000.  In the
Marine VII permit area, where Chevron has an interest of about 29 percent in the
Kitina  and  Sounda  Exploitation  Permits,  development  of  the  Kitina  Field
continued and total  production  averaged  about 27,000  barrels of oil per day.
Further development work, including gas injection, is planned for 2001. In Haute
Mer,  where Chevron has a 30 percent  interest,  development of the Nkossa Field
continued with the recompletion of several wells. Total production in the field,
operated  by Elf Congo,  averaged  about  66,000  barrels  of oil and  liquefied
petroleum  gas per day in 2000.  Development  planning  for the Moho and Bilondo
fields in the Haute Mer license  continues with a development  decision expected
in mid-2001.  Two wells were drilled in the Mer Profonde Sud exploration license
in  2000,  resulting  in one  non-commercial  oil  discovery  and one dry  hole.
Continued  participation  in the permit,  where Chevron has a 15 percent  equity
interest,  is currently  being  re-evaluated  with a decision  planned for early
2001.

Chad/Cameroon:  Chevron is a 25 percent  partner in a  consortium  comprised  of
affiliates  of  ExxonMobil  and  Petronas  in a project to develop  the Doba oil
fields in southern  Chad and  construct a pipeline to the coast of Cameroon  for
export of oil to world markets.  This project is expected to cost  approximately
$3.5 billion and have a 20- to 30-year  life.  First  production  is expected in
2004.

Equatorial  Guinea:  In May,  2000 Chevron  entered  into a  Production  Sharing
Contract  with the  Republic of  Equatorial  Guinea for Block L, located off the
coast of the island of Bioko.  The work  program  has an initial  period of five
years with two  one-year  extensions.  A 3D  seismic  survey  was  initiated  in
December 2000.

C)       Other International Areas

Caspian Region: The Tengizchevroil  (TCO) partnership,  formed in 1993, includes
the Tengiz and Korolev oil fields located in western  Kazakhstan.  Chevron had a
45 percent  interest in TCO in 2000.  In January  2001,  Chevron  increased  its
ownership  interest  in TCO to 50  percent.  In  2000,  total crude  oil
production  from the Tengiz  Field  increased  for the  seventh  straight  year,
averaging  229,000  barrels of oil per day.  TCO  completed a  three-year



                                      -11-


plant  expansion  project  in 2000  to  increase  TCO's  processing  and  export
capacity.   The  project  will  permit  crude  oil  production  to  increase  to
approximately  260,000  barrels  per day - the  average  gross  production  rate
expected  for  2001.  TCO plans to bring  the  Korolev  field on line in 2001 by
extending its existing gathering system.

The  Caspian  Pipeline  Consortium  (CPC) was formed to build a crude oil export
pipeline  from the  Tengiz  Field to the  Black  Sea port of  Novorossiysk  at a
projected  total cost of $2.6  billion.  When  completed,  the CPC pipeline will
allow for the export of an initial  capacity of 600,000  barrels of oil per day,
expandable to 1.5 million barrels per day with additional pump stations, tankage
and marine loading  facilities.  Chevron has a 15 percent ownership  interest in
CPC, which remains on schedule for a mid-2001 start-up.

Europe:  Chevron holds  interests in four producing  fields  offshore the United
Kingdom and Norway:  the Alba oil field, the Britannia gas condensate field, and
non-operated  interests in Statfjord and Draugen. Total production from the Alba
Field averaged 80,000 barrels of crude oil per day in 2000.  Chevron's  interest
in Alba is approximately  21 percent.  Total production from the Britannia Field
averaged 692 million cubic feet of gas per day and approximately  40,000 barrels
per day of  condensate  during  2000.  Chevron  has an  approximate  30  percent
interest in  Britannia  and shares  operatorship  with  Conoco.  In Norway,  the
Draugen Field, in which Chevron has a 7.56 percent interest, produced an average
of 203,000 barrels of oil per day in 2000.  Statfjord,  where Chevron has a 4.84
percent interest, produced an average of 180,000 barrels per day in 2000. In the
16th  Licensing  Round in April,  Chevron was awarded  three new  high-potential
licenses in the Norwegian Sea - one as operator.

Canada: Total production from the Hibernia Field offshore Newfoundland, in which
Chevron holds an interest of about 27 percent,  averaged  approximately  144,000
barrels of crude oil per day in 2000,  up from 100,000  barrels of crude oil per
day in 1999.  Also offshore  Newfoundland,  the company  operates and holds a 28
percent interest in the Hebron Field, where a delineation well completed in 2000
confirmed previous  hydrocarbon  reservoirs and tested a new reservoir.  At Fort
Liard in the Northwest Territories, the K-29 discovery well came into production
in April 2000. A second well came into  production in early  November.  Combined
December total production from the two wells averaged 108 million cubic feet per
day of natural gas and byproducts.  Chevron holds a 43 percent working  interest
in the Fort Liard  pool.  In the  Mackenzie  Delta  region of  northern  Canada,
Chevron formed two new joint venture  partnerships to conduct exploration over a
large area totaling more than one million gross acres.  One  partnership is with
BP Canada Energy and covers two exploration concessions.  The second partnership
is with BP and  Burlington  Resources  Canada  Energy  Ltd.,  and  covers  three
exploration leases. Also in 2000,  construction began on mining,  extraction and
upgrading  facilities  for the $2.4 billion  Athabasca  Oil Sands  Project.  The
project is expected to begin  production in late 2002 and reach 155,000  barrels
of bitumen per day at peak  production.  The  tar-like  bitumen will be upgraded
into high quality synthetic oil using hydroprocessing technology.  Chevron has a
20 percent working interest in the project.

Australia:  Chevron's  primary  interests in Australia involve a number of joint
ventures.  The largest is the North West Shelf (NWS)  Project  offshore  Western
Australia,  where Chevron has an approximate 17 percent interest.  Average total
field production during 2000 from the North Rankin and Goodwyn fields in the NWS
project was 1.5 billion cubic feet of gas per day and 99,000  barrels per day of
condensate.  Total oil production from the Wanaea/  Cossack,  Lambert and Hermes
fields averaged 116,000 barrels per day in 2000.  Liquefied  petroleum gas (LPG)
production  driven by the  liquids-rich  gas averaged  23,400 barrels per day in
these  fields.  During  2000 a number of Japanese  customers  agreed to terms on
Letters  of Intent  with the NWS  partners,  underpinning  the  proposed  fourth
liquefied natural gas (LNG) train,  which would increase LNG production by about
50 percent.  Chevron's  other  major area of  activity is in permit  areas that
include the Barrow  Island and Thevenard  Island oil fields and the  undeveloped
Gorgon area gas fields,  southwest of the NWS fields.  Chevron operates a number
of joint  ventures  with  production  facilities  on Barrow Island and Thevenard
Island,  with interests  varying from 25 percent to 50 percent.  Chevron assumed
operatorship  of these areas from West  Australian  Petroleum  Pty. Ltd. in late
1999.  Total oil  production  from the Barrow  Island and  Thevenard  Island oil
fields  in 2000,  averaged  25,000  barrels  per day,  with  Chevron's  share of
production  being  6,600  barrels  per day.  In  addition to the two major joint
ventures above,  Chevron has interests in the northern  Browse Basin,  and three
new deepwater  exploration  permits in the offshore Canning Basin,  near the NWS
joint  venture  acreage.  Chevron's  interests  vary from about 17 percent to 25
percent.  During 2000,  Chevron  continued to pursue the  Australia Gas Pipeline
Project from Papua New Guinea to Queensland,  Australia. This project will allow
commercialization  of Papua New Guinea  natural  gas  reserves  and  recovery of
substantial quantities of natural gas liquids (NGL).

                                      -12-


Indonesia:  Chevron's  interests  in  Indonesia  are  managed  by two  affiliate
companies, PT Caltex Pacific Indonesia (CPI) and Amoseas Indonesia (AI). Chevron
owns 50 percent of both  companies.  CPI manages all of  Chevron's  interests in
four  production  sharing  contracts in Indonesia.  Chevron's net share of total
production of 705,000  barrels per day in 2000 was 158,000  barrels per day. CPI
continues to implement  enhanced oil recovery  projects to extract more oil from
its existing  reservoirs.  The Duri Field,  under  steamflood since 1985, is the
largest  steamflood  in the  world.  Currently  9 of 13 phases  are under  steam
injection,  with the tenth phase  scheduled  for injection in late 2001. AI is a
power generation company that operates the Darajat  geothermal  contract area in
central Java and is  constructing a cogeneration  facility to support CPI's Duri
steamflood.  AI's  geothermal  field  continued to provide steam to the national
power company plant and a company-owned plant that produces  electricity for the
Java power grid. Further expansion of the Darajat  geothermal  reservoir complex
is planned.  The Darajat  reservoir has proved reserves of steam to generate 350
megawatts for 30 years.

Thailand:  Chevron operates Block B8/32 in the Gulf of Thailand.  Chevron has an
approximate 52 percent interest in the 734,000-acre block.  Chevron also holds a
33  percent  interest  in  adjacent  exploration  blocks  7, 8 and 9,  which are
currently inactive pending resolution of Thailand-Cambodia  border issues. Block
B8/32 is currently  producing oil and natural gas from two fields,  Tantawan and
Benchamas.  In December  2000,  the Tantawan Field was producing at a rate of 38
million  cubic  feet of gas  per  day and  5,400  barrels  of oil per  day.  The
Benchamas  Field was  producing at an average rate of 110 million  cubic feet of
gas per day and 28,600 barrels of oil per day. In Block B8/32 development of the
Maliwan Field is under-way, with the Maliwan A platform installation and initial
production  through the  Benchamas  facilities  expected by November  2001.  The
Government  of  Thailand  awarded  a  Production  License  Area  (PLA) for North
Jarmjuree in November 2000.  Further  delineation of the North  Jarmjuree PLA is
planned in 2001.

Argentina:  Chevron holds over 4.2 million acres of  exploration  and production
acreage in the Neuquen and Austral  Basins of Argentina  with  working  interest
shares  ranging  from about 18 to 100  percent in  operated  license  areas.  In
addition,  Chevron  holds a 14 percent  interest in a major oil export  pipeline
from the  Neuquen  producing  area to the  Atlantic  coast.  At  year-end  2000,
properties in the Neuquen and Austral  Basins were  producing at total combined
rates of  91,000  barrels  of  oil-equivalent  per  day.  During  2000,  Chevron
strengthened its Neuquen Basin leasehold  position by purchasing two exploration
permits and two production  concessions  from Alberta Energy Company.  Chevron's
exploration  and  appraisal  program in 2000  resulted  in three oil and two gas
discoveries  that added over 50 million barrels to Chevron's proved and probable
oil-equivalent reserves.  Exploration plans include 15 wells and the acquisition
of more than 250,000 acres of seismic data in 2001.

Brazil:  As part of a  strategy  to expand  its  deepwater  prospects  and other
interests in South America,  the company  acquired in 2000 a 65 percent interest
in, and was designated  operator of,  exploration  block  BM-S-7..  A 25 percent
non-operated  interest was also  acquired in  exploration  block  BM-S-10.  Both
blocks are located in the Santos area of the Salt Basin.  These two blocks bring
Chevron's  total  exploration  acreage in the Salt Basin to 4.1  million  acres.
Seismic  programs  for blocks  BCUM-100  and BC-20  commenced  in 2000 and three
exploratory  wells  are  planned  for 2001.  Chevron's  interest  in both  these
Petrobras-operated blocks is 50 percent. Current plans for BM-S-7and BM-S-10 are
to  acquire  and  evaluate  geologic  and  seismic  data in 2001 and 2002,  with
drilling commencing in 2003.

Venezuela:  Chevron and Petroleos de Venezuela,  S.A. (PDVSA) formed an alliance
in 1995 to further  develop the Boscan oil field and provide  heavy crude oil to
Chevron in the United States  through  several  independent  supply  agreements.
Chevron  took over  operations  of the Boscan  Field in 1996 under an  Operating
Services  Agreement and receives  operating  expense  reimbursement  and capital
recovery,  plus interest and an incentive fee. Development drilling continued in
the Boscan Field, with 41 wells completed during 2000.  Average  production from
Boscan  was  at  the  115,000  barrels-of-oil-per-day  limit  specified  in  the
Operating  Services  Agreement for the second half of 2000.  Chevron also is the
operator and has a 27 percent  interest in the LL-652  Field in Lake  Maracaibo.
The LL-652  Field  objective is to increase  production  over the next few years
through  the  application  of  secondary  recovery   technologies.   LL-652  oil
production  during 2000 averaged  16,500  barrels per day, up from an average of
9,700 in 1999.


                                      -13-


       Petroleum - Natural Gas Liquids

The company  sells  natural gas liquids from its  producing  operations  under a
variety of contractual arrangements. In the United States, the majority of sales
are to the  company's  Dynegy  Inc.  affiliate,  in  which  the  company  had an
approximate  26 percent  interest at  year-end  2000.  Dynegy and  Chevron  have
entered  into   long-term   strategic   alliances   whereby   Dynegy   purchases
substantially all natural gas and natural gas liquids produced by Chevron in the
United  States,  excluding  Alaska,  and  supplies  natural  gas and natural gas
liquids feedstocks to Chevron's U.S. refineries and chemical plants. Outside the
United  States,  natural gas liquids sales take place in the company's  Canadian
upstream operations, with lower sales levels in Africa, Australia and Europe. In
2000, U.S. sales volumes,  including Chevron's share of Dynegy sales,  comprised
about 70 percent of the  company's  total  worldwide  natural gas liquids  sales
volume.

Chevron's  total  third-party  natural gas liquids  sales  volumes over the last
three years were as follows:




       Petroleum - Refining

Based on refinery statistics published in the December 18, 2000 issue of The Oil
and Gas Journal,  Chevron had the fourth  largest U.S.  refining  capacity.  The
company's 50 percent-owned  Caltex Corporation  affiliate owned or had interests
in 10 operating refineries: Australia (2), Thailand, Korea, the Philippines, New
Zealand,   Singapore,   Pakistan,  Kenya  and  South  Africa.  In  2000,  Caltex
relinquished  its 4.75 percent  interest in a second  refinery in  Thailand.  In
1999,  Caltex sold its  interest  in two  Japanese  refineries  owned by Koa Oil
Company Limited.

Distillation  operating  capacity  utilization  in 2000,  adjusted for sales and
closures,  averaged 90 percent in the United States  (including  asphalt plants)
and 89 percent worldwide (including affiliate),  compared with 91 percent in the
United States and worldwide in the prior year. Chevron's capacity utilization at
its U.S.  fuels  refineries  averaged 94 percent in 2000,  down slightly from 96
percent in 1999.  Chevron's capacity utilization of its U.S. cracking and coking
facilities, which are the primary facilities used to convert heavier products to
gasoline  and other  light  products,  averaged  80 percent in 2000,  up from 78
percent in the year earlier.  The company processed  imported and domestic crude
oil in its U.S. refining operations. Imported crude oil accounted for 70 percent
of Chevron's U.S. refinery inputs in 2000.

                                      -14-


The daily  refinery  inputs over the last three years for the  company's and its
Caltex affiliate's refineries are shown in the following table:




       Petroleum - Refined Products Marketing

Product Sales: The company and its Caltex Corporation affiliate market petroleum
products throughout much of the world. The principal  trademarks for identifying
these  products  are  "Chevron"  and  "Caltex."  The  company's  Fuel and Marine
Marketing LLC (FAMM)  affiliate,  which was  established  in late 1998,  markets
marine fuel and  lubricating  oils in  approximately  100  countries  worldwide.
Chevron has a 31 percent equity interest in FAMM.

The  following  table shows the company's and its  affiliates'  refined  product
sales volumes,  excluding  intercompany  sales,  over the past three years.  The
company's Canadian sales volumes consist of refined product sales,  primarily in
British Columbia,  by the company's Chevron Canada Limited subsidiary.  The 2000
and 1999 volumes  reported  for "Other  International"  relate to  international
sales of  aviation  and marine  fuels,  lubricants,  gas oils and other  refined
products, primarily in Latin America, Asia and Europe. The equity in affiliates'
sales  consists of (1) the  company's  interest in Caltex,  which  maintains  an
interest in about 7,800 service stations (of which about 4,700 are controlled by
Caltex),  operating in more than 60 countries in the Asia-Pacific region, Africa
and the Middle East, and (2) the company's interest in FAMM.


                                      -15-





Retail Outlets: In the United States, the company supplies,  directly or through
dealer and jobbers, more than 8,000 motor vehicle retail outlets, of which about
1,400 are company-owned or -leased  stations,  and about 600 aircraft and marine
retail  outlets.  The  company's  gasoline  market area is  concentrated  in the
southern,  southwestern  and western states.  According to the Lundberg Share of
Market  Report,  Chevron  ranks  among the top three  gasoline  marketers  in 14
states, and is the top marketer of jet fuel and aviation gasoline in the western
United States.

The company has continued to take  advantage of growing  demand for  convenience
goods and services. In 2000, non-fuel sales in company-operated stores increased
16 percent, compared with 1999.

In Canada - primarily British Columbia - the company's branded products are sold
in approximately 170 stations (mainly owned or leased).

                                      -16-



       Petroleum - Transportation

Pipelines:  Chevron owns and operates an extensive  system of crude oil, refined
products, chemicals, natural gas liquids and natural gas pipelines in the United
States.  The company  also has direct or indirect  interests  in other U.S.  and
international  pipelines.  The  company's  ownership  interests in pipelines are
summarized in the following table:





Tankers: Chevron's controlled seagoing fleet at December 31, 2000, is summarized
in the  following  table.  All  controlled  tankers  were  utilized in 2000.  In
addition, at any given time, the company has 30 to 40 vessels under charter on a
term or voyage basis.




Federal law requires  that cargo  transported  between U.S.  ports be carried in
ships built and  registered  in the United  States,  owned and  operated by U.S.
entities and manned by U.S.  crews.  At year-end  2000,  the company's U.S. flag
fleet was engaged primarily in transporting  crude oil from Alaska to refineries
on the West Coast and Hawaii,  refined  products between the Gulf Coast and East
Coast, and refined products from California  refineries to terminals on the West
Coast, Alaska and Hawaii.

The Federal Oil  Pollution  Act of 1990  requires the  scheduled  phase-out,  by
year-end 2010, of all single hull tankers  trading to U.S. ports or transferring
cargo in waters within the U.S.  Exclusive  Economic Zone.  This has resulted in
the utilization of more costly double-hull  tankers. By the end of 2000, Chevron
was  operating  a total of 16  double  hull  tankers.  Chevron  expects  to take
delivery  of two  additional  double-hull  tankers in 2003,  also to be operated


                                      -17-


under  long-term  bareboat  charters.  The company is a member of many oil-spill
response cooperatives in areas in which it operates around the world.

At year-end 2000,  two of the company's  controlled  international  flag vessels
continued  to be used as floating  storage  vessels in its  upstream  operations
offshore Cabinda Province, Angola. The remaining international flag vessels were
engaged  primarily in  transporting  crude oil from the Middle East,  Indonesia,
Mexico and West Africa to ports in the United States,  Europe, and Asia. Refined
products also were transported by tanker worldwide.

       Chemicals

In July 2000, Chevron combined most of its petrochemicals  businesses with those
of Phillips  Petroleum Co. to form Chevron  Phillips  Chemical  Company  (CPCC),
headquartered  in  Houston,  Texas.  Each  company  owns 50 percent of the joint
venture. CPCC owns or has joint venture interests in 34 manufacturing facilities
in the United States, Belgium, China, Saudi Arabia,  Singapore,  South Korea and
Mexico.

In November 2000,  CPCC began operation of a 100,000  tons-per-year  polystyrene
plant in China.  Also in 2000,  CPCC and its  joint-venture  partner,  the Saudi
Industrial  Venture  Capital Group,  achieved  design  capacity  production at a
petrochemical complex in Saudi Arabia with production of 480,000 tons of benzene
and 220,000 of cyclohexane.

An  olefins  plant is under  construction  in Qatar  and is expected to commence
production in mid-2002 with an annual capacity of 1.1 billion pounds of ethylene
and 1 billion  pounds of  polyethylene.  CPCC has a 49 percent  interest in this
facility with the Qatar General Petroleum Corp owning the remaining 51 percent.

Following the merger with Phillips Petroleum Co., Chevron retained its "Oronite"
fuel and lubricant additives  business.  Chevron Oronite owns five manufacturing
facilities in the United  States,  France,  Singapore,  Japan and Brazil and has
equity interests in facilities in India and Mexico.

The following table shows 2000 Chemicals  revenues and net income and details on
manufacturing facilities as of December 31, 2000.




       Coal

The Company's wholly owned coal mining and marketing subsidiary, The Pittsburg &
Midway Coal Mining Co.  (P&M),  owned and operated  four  surface  mines and one
underground mine at year-end 2000. The Sebree Mine in Kentucky,  which was idled
in November  1998,  was sold in 2000.  P&M also owns an  approximate  30 percent
interest in  Inter-American  Coal Holding  N.V.,  which has  interests in mining
operations in Venezuela.

Sales and other operating  revenues in 2000 were $297 million from sales of 14.0
million tons of coal.  The average  selling  price for coal from mines owned and
operated  by P&M was $21.22  per ton in 2000,  compared  with  $22.73 per ton in
1999.  Earnings in 2000 were  affected  negatively  by a union work stoppage for
several  months  during the year and  operating  and geologic  complications  at
certain mines. At year-end 2000, P&M controlled  approximately


                                      -18-


218  million  tons  of  developed  and  undeveloped  coal  reserves,   including
significant reserves of environmentally desirable low-sulfur fuel.

       Electronic Commerce and Technology

In 1999,  Chevron  implemented  a new  growth  initiative  aimed  at  developing
business  opportunities  capitalizing  on Internet Web  technology.  The company
established a subsidiary  to leverage  "e-business"  opportunities  in Chevron's
business units. Additionally,  the new subsidiary is involved in the development
of new Internet  "business to business" (B2B) ideas for use in the company's own
operations and for potential development with other outside investors.

Chevron also  established a technology  ventures  unit during 1999.  The company
makes equity investments in a broad portfolio of emerging  technology  companies
with expertise in information technology,  materials sciences and biotechnology.
These  investments are directed toward areas where the company could potentially
be a customer.

Because some of these  investments  in e-business and new ventures may be in new
or unproven technologies and business processes,  ultimate success is not always
certain.  Although not all initiatives may prove to be economically  viable, the
company's  overall  investment in this area is not  significant to the company's
consolidated financial position.

       Research and Environmental Protection

Research:  The company's principal research laboratories are in Richmond and San
Ramon,  California and Houston, Texas. The Richmond facility engages in research
on new  and  improved  refinery  processes,  develops  petroleum  and  chemicals
products, and provides technical services for the company and its customers. The
San Ramon and Houston  facilities conduct research and provide technical support
in geology, geophysics, and oil production methods such as hydraulics,  assisted
recovery  programs  and  drilling,  including  offshore  drilling.  Employees in
subsidiaries  engaged primarily in research activities at year-end 2000 numbered
about 1,000. Chevron's research and development expenses were $171 million, $182
million and $187 million for the years 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

Licenses  under the company's  patents are generally made available to others in
the  petroleum  and  chemicals  industries,  but the  company  does  not  derive
significant income from licensing patents.

Environmental Protection:  Virtually all aspects of the company's businesses are
subject to various  federal,  state and local  environmental,  health and safety
laws and  regulations.  These  regulatory  requirements  continue  to change and
increase in both number and complexity,  and govern not only the manner in which
the company  conducts its  operations,  but also the products it sells.  Chevron
expects more  environmental-related  regulations  in the countries  where it has
operations.  Most of the costs of complying with the myriad laws and regulations
pertaining to its  operations are embedded in the normal costs of conducting its
business.

In 2000, the company's U.S.  capitalized  environmental  expenditures  were $171
million,   representing   approximately   7  percent  of  the  company's   total
consolidated  U.S.  capital and  exploratory  expenditures.  The company's  U.S.
capitalized  environmental  expenditures  were $121  million and $192 million in
1999 and 1998,  respectively.  These environmental  expenditures include capital
outlays to retrofit  existing  facilities,  as well as those associated with new
facilities.  The  expenditures are  predominantly  in the petroleum  segment and
relate mostly to air and water quality  projects and activities at the company's
refineries, oil and gas producing facilities and marketing facilities. For 2001,
the company  estimates  U.S.  capital  expenditures  for  environmental  control
facilities  will be $179 million.  The future annual capital costs of fulfilling
this commitment are uncertain and will be governed by several factors, including
future changes to regulatory requirements.

Further  information  on  environmental  matters and their impact on Chevron are
contained in  Management's  Discussion  and Analysis of Financial  Condition and
Results  of  Operation  on page FS-4 of this  Annual  Report on Form  10-K.  The
company's 2000 environmental  expenditures,  remediation provisions and year-end
environmental  reserves are discussed on page FS-4 of this Annual Report on Form
10-K.

                                      -19-


Item 2. Properties

The location and character of the company's oil, natural gas and coal properties
and  its  refining,  marketing,  transportation  and  chemicals  facilities  are
described  above  under  Item  1.  Business.  Information  in  response  to  the
Securities  Exchange  Act  Industry  Guide  No.  2  ("Disclosure  of Oil and Gas
Operations")  is also  contained  in Item 1 and in Tables I through  VI on pages
FS-33 to FS-38 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Note 14,  "Properties,  Plant
and Equipment," to the company's  financial  statements is on page FS-25 of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K. It presents  information on the company's  gross and
net  properties,  plant and equipment,  and related  additions and  depreciation
expense, by geographic area and operating segment for 2000, 1999 and 1998.

Item 3. Legal Proceedings

A.       El Segundo Refinery - Oil Spill Penalty
The  Los  Angeles   Regional  Water  Quality   Control  Board  has  proposed  an
administrative civil penalty for a jet fuel spill to groundwater  resulting from
a leak in an  underground  pipeline at the  Company's El Segundo  Refinery.  The
Company has remediated the spill and taken  preventive  steps to reduce the risk
of future spills.

B.       El Paso Refinery - Clean Air Act
The Texas Natural Resources Conservation Commission and Chevron Products Company
have agreed to enter into an Agreed Order with respect to alleged air violations
at Chevron's El Paso Refinery.  The alleged  violations  that are the subject of
the  Agreed  Order  have been  corrected  and the  Company  has agreed to pay an
administrative civil penalty of $102,500.

C.       Rangely Field - Clean Water Act
Chevron  Production  Company,  as operator of the Rangely Unit,  and its working
interest  partners,  have agreed to pay a $750,000 civil penalty associated with
alleged clean water act violations  associated with produced water and crude oil
spills at the Rangely Production facility in northwestern Colorado. In addition,
the Company and its partners have committed to spend approximately $3 million in
facility  upgrades to reduce the risk of spills from the  injection  line leaks.
Chevron's  share of  these  expenditures  will be 60  percent.  Chevron  and its
partners,  the U.S. EPA and the Department of Justice have agreed to resolve the
matter through a consent  decree,  which will govern issues  associated with the
injection line installation and leaks over the next five years.

D.       Richmond Refinery - VOC Emissions
The  Company  has  entered  into a  Settlement  Agreement  with the Bay Area Air
Quality  Management  District  with  respect  to alleged  violations  of the air
district's  fugitive VOC emission rules at the Company's Richmond Refinery.  The
alleged  violations  involve emissions from connectors within the refinery.  The
Company has agreed under the  Settlement  Agreement to pay a penalty of $242,500
and has agreed to surrender two tons per year of emission  reduction credits for
volatile organic compounds.



E.       Salt Lake Marketing Terminal - Air Emission Controls
The Utah  Division of Air Quality has  proposed a civil  penalty in  conjunction
with the loading of gasoline  into tanker  trucks  without  certain air emission
controls.  The Company is  negotiating  with the  Division to resolve all issues
relating to the alleged violations.

Other previously  reported legal proceedings have been settled,  not pursued, or
the issues resolved as not to merit further reporting.

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

No matter was submitted  during the fourth quarter of 2000 to a vote of security
holders through the solicitation of proxies or otherwise.



                                      -20-




              Executive Officers of the Registrant at March 1, 2001

   Name and Age              Executive Office Held      Major Area of
                                                        Responsibility
- -------------------  ------------------------------    --------------------

D. J. O'Reilly   54  Chairman of the Board since 2000  Chief Executive Officer
                     Director since 1998
                     Executive Committee Member
                      since 1994

R. H. Matzke     64  Vice-Chairman of the Board        Worldwide Exploration and
                      since 2000                       and Production Activities
                     Director since 1997
                     President of Chevron Overseas
                      Petroleum Inc. from 1989 to 2000
                     Executive Committee Member
                      since 1993

D. W. Callahan   58  Executive Vice-President          Chemicals, Coal,
                      since 2000                       Human Resources,
                     Vice-President since 1999         Technology
                     President of Chevron Chemical
                      Company from 1999 to 2000
                     Executive Committee Member
                      since 1999

H. D. Hinman     60  Vice-President and                Law
                      General Counsel since 1993
                     Executive Committee Member
                      since 1993

G.L. Kirkland    50  President of Chevron U.S.A.       North American
                      Production Company since 2000    Exploration and
                     Executive Committee Member        Production
                      since 2000

M. R. Klitten    56  Executive Vice-President          Worldwide Refining,
                      since 2000                       Marketing and
                     Vice-President since 1989         and Transportation
                     Executive Committee Member        Activities,
                      since 1989                       Global Procurement,
                                                       Real Estate,
                                                       Aircraft Services

P.J. Robertson   54  Vice-President since 1994         Overseas Exploration and
                     President of Chevron Overseas     Production
                      Petroleum Inc. since 2000
                     Executive Committee Member
                      since 1997

J.S. Watson      44  Vice-President and Chief          Finance
                      Financial Officer since 2000
                     Vice-President since 1998
                     Executive Committee Member
                      since 2000

P.A. Woertz      47  Vice-President since 1998         U.S. Refining, Marketing,
                     President of Chevron Products     Logistics and Trading
                      Company since 1998
                     Executive Committee Member
                      since 1998

The Executive Officers of the Corporation  consist of the Chairman of the Board,
the  Vice-Chairman  of the Board, and such other officers of the Corporation who
are  either  Directors  or  members  of the  Executive  Committee,  or are chief
executive  officers of principal  business units.  Except as noted below, all of
the Corporation's Executive Officers have held one or more of such positions for
more than five years.

D.W. Callahan    - Senior Vice President, Chevron Chemical Company - 1991
                 - President, Chevron Chemical Company - 1999



                                      -21-


G.L. Kirkland    - General Manager, Asset Management, Chevron
                    Nigeria Limited - 1996
                 - Chairman and Managing Director, Chevron
                    Nigeria Limited - 1996
                 - President, Chevron USA Production Company - 2000

P.J. Robertson   - Executive Vice-President of Chevron U.S.A.
                    Production Company - 1996
                 - Vice-President, Chevron Corporation and
                    President of Chevron U.S.A. Production Company - 1997

J.S. Watson      - President, Chevron Canada Limited - 1996
                 - Vice-President,   Strategic   Planning,   Chevron
                    Corporation  -  1998
                 - Vice-President and Chief Financial Officer,
                    Chevron Corporation - 2000

P.A. Woertz      - President, Chevron International Oil Company - 1996
                 - Vice President, Logistics and Trading,
                    Chevron Products Company - 1996
                 - President, Chevron Products Company - 1998



                                     PART II

Item 5. Market for the Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder
        Matters

The information on Chevron's  common stock market prices,  dividends,  principal
exchanges on which the stock is traded and number of  stockholders  of record is
contained in the Quarterly  Results and Stock Market Data  tabulations,  on page
FS-11 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Item 6. Selected Financial Data

The selected  financial  data for years 1996 through 2000 are  presented on page
FS-39 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
        of Operations

The  index  to  Financial   Statements,   Supplementary  Data  and  Management's
Discussion  and Analysis of Financial  Condition  and Results of  Operations  is
presented on page FS-1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

The  index  to  Financial   Statements,   Supplementary  Data  and  Management's
Discussion  and Analysis of Financial  Condition  and Results of  Operations  is
presented on page FS-1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
        Financial Disclosure

None.


                                      -22-


                                    PART III

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

The  information  on  Directors  appearing on pages 4 through 9 of the Notice of
Annual  Meeting of  Stockholders  and Proxy  Statement  dated March 21, 2001, is
incorporated  herein  by  reference  in this  Annual  Report on Form  10-K.  See
Executive Officers of the Registrant on pages 21 and 22 of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K for information about executive officers of the company.

Item 405 of  Regulation  S-K calls for  disclosure  of any known late  filing or
failure by an insider to file a report  required  by Section 16 of the  Exchange
Act. This  disclosure is contained on page 12 of the Notice of Annual Meeting of
Stockholders and Proxy Statement dated March 21, 2001 under the heading "Section
16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting  Compliance," and is incorporated herein by
reference  in this  Annual  Report on Form  10-K.  Chevron  believes  all filing
requirements were complied with during 2000.

Item 11. Executive Compensation

The  information  on pages 13  through  22 of the  Notice of Annual  Meeting  of
Stockholders and Proxy Statement dated March 21, 2001, is incorporated herein by
reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

The information on page 12 of the Notice of Annual Meeting of  Stockholders  and
Proxy Statement dated March 21, 2001 appearing under the heading "Directors' and
Executive  Officers' Stock  Ownership," is  incorporated  herein by reference in
this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

There were no relationships or related  transactions  requiring disclosure under
Item 404 of Regulation S-K.

                                     PART IV

Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K

(a) The following documents are filed as part of this report:

 (1) Financial Statements:                                       Page(s)

       Report of Independent Accountants                         FS-12

       Consolidated Statement of Income
         for the three years ended December 31, 2000             FS-12

       Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
        for the three years ended December 31, 2000              FS-12

       Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31,
         2000 and 1999                                           FS-13

       Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
         for the three years ended December 31, 2000             FS-14

       Consolidated Statement of Stockholders' Equity
         for the three years ended December 31, 2000             FS-15

       Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                FS-16 to FS-32



                                      -23-


 (2) Financial Statement Schedules:

      We have  included  on page 25 of this  Annual  report on Form 10-K,
      Financial   Statement   Schedule  II  -  Valuation  and  Qualifying
      Accounts.

      The Combined Financial  Statements of the Caltex Group of Companies
      are filed as part of this report.

       Caltex Group of Companies Combined Financial Statements   C-1 to C-20

      All schedules for the Caltex Group are omitted because they are not
      applicable or the required  information is included in the combined
      financial statements or notes thereto.

 (3) Exhibits:

      The Exhibit  Index on pages 27 and 28 of this Annual Report on Form
      10-K lists the exhibits that are filed as part of this report.

(b)  Reports on Form 8-K:

(1)  A Current  Report on Form 8-K was filed by the  company on December
     21,  2000.  In this  report,  Chevron  announced  a  change  in the
     certifying accountant for the Chevron Profit Sharing/Savings Plan.

(2)  A Current  Report on Form 8-K was filed by the company on March 15,
     2001.  In this report,  Chevron  filed the  company's  2000 audited
     financial  statements,  Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis  of
     Financial   Condition  and  Results  of  Operations  for  2000  and
     Supplementary Data.




                                      -24-






                                      -25-


                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the  requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities  Exchange
Act of 1934,  the  registrant  has duly  caused  this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned,  thereunto duly authorized,  on the 28th day of March
2000.

                                   Chevron Corporation

                                   By         DAVID J. O'REILLY*
                                      -----------------------------------------
                                       David J. O'Reilly, Chairman of the Board

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following  persons on behalf of the  registrant and
in the capacities indicated on the 28th day of March 2001.

Principal Executive Officers (And Directors)                Directors


           DAVID J. O'REILLY*                          SAMUEL H. ARMACOST*
- ---------------------------------------------- -------------------------------
David J. O'Reilly, Chairman of the Board               Samuel H. Armacost

           RICHARD H. MATZKE*                               SAM GINN *
- ---------------------------------------------- -------------------------------
Richard H. Matzke, Vice-Chairman of the Board               Sam Ginn

                                                        CARLA A. HILLS *
                                               -------------------------------
                                                         Carla A. Hills

                                                      J. BENNETT JOHNSTON*
                                               -------------------------------
                                                       J. Bennett Johnston

                                                        CHARLES M. PIGOTT*
                                               -------------------------------
Principal Financial Officer                              Charles M. Pigott

          JOHN S. WATSON*                               FRANK A. SHRONTZ*
- ---------------------------------------------- -------------------------------
 John S. Watson, Vice-President, Finance                 Frank A. Shrontz
     and Chief Financial Officer
                                                            CARL WARE*
                                               -------------------------------
Principal Accounting Officer                                Carl Ware

          STEPHEN J. CROWE*                               JOHN A. YOUNG*
- ---------------------------------------------- -------------------------------
 Stephen J. Crowe, Vice-President                         John A. Young
    and Comptroller


*By:             /s/   LYDIA I. BEEBE
    ---------------------------------------------------
           Lydia I. Beebe, Attorney-in-Fact





                                      -26-



                                  EXHIBIT INDEX
Exhibit
   No.                                                Description
- --------  ----------------------------------------------------------------------
   3.1    Restated  Certificate of  Incorporation  of Chevron  Corporation,
          dated  November 23, 1998,  filed as Exhibit 3.1 to Chevron
          Corporation's  Annual  Report  on Form 10-K for 1998  dated  March 31,
          1999, and incorporated by reference herein.

   3.2    By-Laws of Chevron Corporation, as amended November 23, 1998, filed as
          Exhibit 3.2 to Chevron  Corporation's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for
          1998 dated March 31, 1999, and incorporated by reference herein.

   4.1    Rights  Agreement  dated as of  November  23,  1998,  between  Chevron
          Corporation and ChaseMellon  Shareholder  Services  L.L.C.,  as Rights
          Agent, filed as Exhibit 4.1 to Chevron Corporation's Current Report on
          Form  8-K  dated  November  23,  1998,  and  incorporated   herein  by
          reference.

   4.2    Amendment No. 1 to Rights  Agreement dated as of October 15, 2000,
          between Chevron  Corporation and ChaseMellon  Shareholder
          Services L.L.C.,  as Rights Agent,  filed as Exhibit 4.2 to Chevron
          Corporation's  Registration  Statement on Form 8-A dated
          December 7, 2000, and incorporated herein by reference.

          Pursuant to the Instructions to Exhibits, certain instruments defining
          the rights of holders of long-term debt  securities of the corporation
          and its  consolidated  subsidiaries  are not filed  because  the total
          amount of securities  authorized  under any such  instrument  does not
          exceed 10  percent  of the total  assets  of the  corporation  and its
          subsidiaries  on a consolidated  basis. A copy of such instrument will
          be furnished to the Commission upon request.

  10.1    Chevron Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors,  as
          amended and restated effective January 1, 2001.

  10.2    Management  Incentive  Plan of Chevron  Corporation,  as  amended  and
          restated  effective  October 30, 1996,  filed as Appendix B to Chevron
          Corporation's  Notice  of Annual  Meeting  of  Stockholders  and Proxy
          Statement dated March 21, 1997, and incorporated herein by reference.

  10.3    Chevron  Corporation  Excess Benefit Plan,  amended and restated as of
          July 1, 1996, filed as Exhibit 10 to Chevron  Corporation's  Report on
          Form  10-Q  for  the  quarterly  period  ended  March  31,  1997,  and
          incorporated herein by reference.

  10.4    Chevron Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Employee  Directors,  as amended
          and restated  effective April 30, 1997, filed as Appendix A to Chevron
          Corporation's  Notice  of Annual  Meeting  of  Stockholders  and Proxy
          Statement dated March 21, 1997, and incorporated herein by reference.

  10.5    Chevron Corporation  Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended and restated
          effective   October  30,   1996,   filed  as  Appendix  C  to  Chevron
          Corporation's  Notice  of Annual  Meeting  of  Stockholders  and Proxy
          Statement dated March 21, 1997, and incorporated herein by reference.

  10.6    Chevron  Corporation  Salary  Deferral Plan for Management  Employees,
          effective   January   1,   1997,   filed  as  Exhibit  10  to  Chevron
          Corporation's  Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June
          30, 1997, and incorporated herein by reference.

  10.7    Agreement  and Plan of Merger  dated as of  October  15,  2000,  among
          Texaco Inc., Chevron Corporation and Keepep Inc., filed as Exhibit 2.1
          to a Current  Report on Form 8-K filed by the  company on October  16,
          2000 and an amended Current Report on Form 8-K filed by the company on
          October 16, 2000.

  10.8    Stock Option  Agreement  dated as of October 15, 2000 between  Chevron
          Corporation and Texaco Inc.,  filed as Exhibit 2.2 to a Current Report
          on Form 8-K filed by the  company on October  16,  2000 and an amended
          Current Report on Form 8-K filed by the company on October 16, 2000.



                                      -27-


  10.9    Stock Option  Agreement  dated as of October 15, 2000 between  Chevron
          Corporation and Texaco Inc.,  filed as Exhibit 2.3 to a Current Report
          on Form 8-K filed by the  company on October  16,  2000 and an amended
          Current Report on Form 8-K filed by the company on October 16, 2000.

  12.1    Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges (page E-1).

  21.1    Subsidiaries of Chevron Corporation (page E-2).

  23.1    Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (page E-3).

  23.2    Consent of KPMG (page E-4).

  24.1    Powers  of  Attorney  for   directors   and  certain   officers of
   to     Chevron Corporation, authorizing the signing of the Annual Report on
  24.12   Form 10-K on their behalf.

  99.1    Definitions of Selected Financial Terms (page E-5).

Copies of above exhibits not contained herein are available,  at a fee of $2 per
document,  to any  security  holder  upon  written  request  to the  Secretary's
Department,  Chevron Corporation,  575 Market Street, San Francisco,  California
94105.


                                      -28-


                  INDEX TO MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
            CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA




                                                                  Page(s)

Management's Discussion and Analysis                              FS-2 to FS-10

Quarterly Results and Stock Market Data                           FS-11

Report of Management                                              FS-11

Report of Independent Accountants                                 FS-12

Consolidated Statement of Income                                  FS-12

Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income                    FS-12

Consolidated Balance Sheet                                        FS-13

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows                              FS-14

Consolidated Statement of Stockholders' Equity                    FS-15

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                        FS-16 to FS-32

Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Producing Activities      FS-33 to FS-38

Five-Year Financial Summary                                       FS-39




                                      FS-1





          MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
          -----------------------------------------------------------
                           AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
                           -------------------------

2000 KEY INDICATORS
- -------------------

o Net income was  $5.185  billion,  the most  profitable  year in the  company's
  history
o Exploration and production  operational  earnings more than doubled to
  $4.5 billion
o Average U.S. crude oil realization increased 69 percent to $27.20
  per barrel
o Average U.S. natural gas realization was up 87 percent to $4.04 per
  thousand cubic feet
o International  net liquids  production  increased for the
  11th  consecutive  year - up over 4 percent
o Worldwide  net oil and gas reserve additions exceeded production for the
  eighth consecutive year
o U.S. refining, marketing and transportation operational earnings doubled on
  higher margins and improved plant reliability
o Annual dividends increased for the 13th consecutive year






     Chevron's  record net income of $5.185 billion in 2000 was up significantly
over 1999 net income of $2.070  billion  and 1998 net income of $1.339  billion.
Special charges in 2000 included asset  write-downs,  environmental  remediation
reserve additions,  prior-years' tax adjustments and litigation costs. Partially
offsetting  these  charges were gains from the equity  accounting  effect of the
issuance of additional  common stock by the company's  Dynegy equity  affiliate,
asset sales,  insurance recoveries for property damage,  actuarial  calculations
for the company's  benefit  plans and LIFO  inventory  adjustments.  Net special
charges  in  1999  included   losses  from  asset   write-downs,   environmental
remediation provisions and restructuring charges, which were partially offset by
benefits  from the sale of  assets,  LIFO  inventory  gains,  and net  favorable
adjustments  for  prior-years'  taxes and  litigation  issues.  In 1998, the net
special  charges  included a loss  provision  of $637  million  for  litigation,
substantially  all of which  pertained to a lawsuit against Gulf Oil Corporation
by Cities Service filed in 1982 - prior to the Chevron-Gulf merger in 1984.
     Included in net income were foreign currency gains of $142 million in 2000,
and losses of $38 million in 1999 and $47 million in 1998.
     Net income for the company's  individual  business segments is discussed in
the Results of Operations section.


ENVIRONMENT  AND OUTLOOK
- ------------------------
     Record  earnings  for  Chevron  in  2000  were  largely  the  result  of  a
substantial  improvement in crude oil and natural gas prices,  along with higher
worldwide oil-equivalent production.  Crude oil prices continued an upswing from
20-year  lows that were  experienced  in late  1998.  Natural  gas prices - more
sensitive  to regional  supply-demand  balances - rose to historic  highs in the
U.S. spot market in late 2000.  Capitalizing on these  higher-price  conditions,
the company  increased  its worldwide  oil-equivalent  production by 5 percent -
including the effect of volumes produced internationally under operating service
agreements, and adjusting for the effects of higher prices on Chevron's share of
net  production   under   production-sharing   contracts  and  variable  royalty
arrangements.
     The  average  spot  price in 2000  for West  Texas  Intermediate  (WTI),  a
benchmark crude oil, was $30.34 per barrel, up nearly 60 percent from $19.30 per
barrel in 1999 and more than double the 1998  average  price.  The average  U.S.
Henry Hub spot natural gas price of $4.23 per thousand  cubic feet  increased 86
percent,  compared  with the 1999 average of $2.27,  and was more than twice the
1998 level.  The sharp rise in crude oil prices was  primarily the result of the
1999  agreement  among  certain  OPEC and non-OPEC  oil  producing  countries to
restrict production, as well as increased demand and lower petroleum inventories
worldwide.  Higher U.S. natural gas prices reflected a strengthened  economy and
sharply increased demand for natural gas from power generators, at the same time
North American  natural gas producers  struggled to increase supply and maintain
inventory levels.
     Although  down from their  highs in 2000,  crude oil and natural gas prices
remained strong in early 2001. In mid- February 2001, the price of WTI was about
$30 per barrel.  The Henry Hub spot  natural gas price that peaked at $10.50 per
thousand  cubic feet in late December  2000 fell below $6.00 per thousand  cubic
feet by mid-February. It is uncertain how long these price levels will continue.
Some factors


                                      FS-2

that  may  affect  future  price  changes  include  fluctuations  in  crude  oil
production by producing countries,  unforeseen supply disruptions,  increases or
decreases in worldwide  inventory levels,  changes in demand for heating oil and
natural gas as a result of winter  weather  conditions,  electricity  generating
requirements,  and the  demand  for  refined  products  reflecting  the  overall
strength of the world  economies.  High crude oil and natural gas prices enhance
the company's  revenues and earnings in exploration  and production  operations.
However,  these same conditions could adversely affect financial results in the
refining and  marketing and the  chemicals  businesses  if the higher  feedstock
costs cannot be recovered through sufficient product price increases.
     Chevron's U.S.  downstream  margins and earnings improved  substantially in
2000,  despite  higher  crude  oil  feedstock  costs  and fuel  expense  for the
company's  refineries.  Earnings in the future  will depend on refined  products
margins in Chevron's primary U.S. operating areas- the West Coast, the South and
the  South-west- and on safe,  reliable  refining  operations.  Internationally,
Caltex  operations  in the  Asia-Pacific  region  continued  to suffer from weak
refined  products  margins,  resulting from surplus  refining  capacity,  higher
feedstock costs and a highly competitive environment.  Caltex may continue to be
adversely affected by these conditions throughout 2001.
     The  outlook  for the  company's  chemicals  businesses  remains  uncertain
because of fluctuating  feedstock  costs,  depressed  demand and excess capacity
conditions for commodity  chemicals.  While results early in 2000 benefited from
price increases for certain  products,  the industry  experienced a weakening of
margins in the second half of the year. The company expects these  conditions to
continue in 2001.
     For the  company  as a whole in 2000,  strong  operating  cash  flows and a
continued  focus on cost  control-  mitigating  the  effect of higher  operating
expenses  from  increased  fuel and utility  costs-  helped  enable a 16 percent
increase in the 2001 capital budget to $6 billion. Profitable growth from such a
robust capital spending program is linked,  among other things, to the company's
continued  success in operating  safely and achieving  excellence in stewardship
over  the  company's   global  portfolio  of  world-class   capital   investment
opportunities.

CHEVRON-TEXACO  MERGER AGREEMENT
- --------------------------------
     Chevron and Texaco  announced  in October  2000 an agreement to combine the
two  companies  into an  integrated  global  energy  company.  Upon  approval by
regulatory  authorities and  stockholders of both companies,  and fulfillment of
other conditions, Chevron will issue 0.77 of its common shares for each share of
Texaco  common  stock.  The new company-  ChevronTexaco  Corporation-  will have
significantly enhanced positions in upstream and downstream operations, a global
chemicals business, a growth platform in power generation,  and industry-leading
skills in technology  innovation.  Synergistic  annual  savings of at least $1.2
billion are expected within six to nine months of the merger.
     Chevron and Texaco  anticipate that the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (FTC)
will require asset  dispositions  as a condition of not  challenging the merger.
While the scope and method of such  dispositions  were unknown in late February,
the companies  anticipated that divestiture of certain U.S. refining,  marketing
and transportation  businesses would be required to address market concentration
issues.   Merger-related  fees  and  expenses,   consisting  primarily  of  U.S.
Securities  and Exchange  Commission  (SEC)  filing  fees;  fees and expenses of
investment bankers, attorneys and accountants;  and financial printing and other
related charges are estimated at $125 million for both companies.  Substantially
all of these costs will be incurred in 2001.
     Though not yet fully  quantified,  significant  costs also will be incurred
after the merger for integration-related  expenses, including the elimination of
duplicate  facilities,   operational  realignment  and  severance  payments  for
work-force reductions.
     The merger  agreement  provides for the payment of  termination  fees of as
much as $1 billion by either  party  under  certain  circumstances.  Chevron and
Texaco also were granted options to purchase shares of the other, under the same
conditions as the payments of the  termination  fees.  Texaco granted Chevron an
option to purchase 107 million  shares of Texaco's  common stock,  at $53.71 per
share.  Chevron  granted  Texaco an option to  purchase  127  million  shares of
Chevron's common stock, at $85.96 per share.

OTHER SIGNIFICANT  DEVELOPMENTS
- -------------------------------
     Key operating  highlights  and events during 2000 and early 2001 to capture
profitable growth opportunities included:
     Tengiz - Tengizchevroil's  (TCO) total gross crude oil production  averaged
over 280,000 barrels per day in the fourth quarter 2000 - a record and exceeding
the  target  of  260,000  barrels  per day - as a  result  of  processing  plant
expansion and the absence of turnaround work. For 2001, average gross production
is  expected to be about  260,000  barrels  per day,  considering  the effect of
planned shutdowns for maintenance and other operational  activities.  In January
2001,  Chevron  closed on its purchase of an  additional 5 percent share in TCO,
bringing  the  company's  ownership  interest to 50 percent.  As a result of the
purchase,   Chevron   will  record  an   additional   177  million   barrels  of
oil-equivalent reserves in 2001.
     Caspian  Pipeline -  Construction  of a pipeline  by the  Caspian  Pipeline
Consortium  (CPC),  in which  Chevron  owns a 15  percent  interest,  remains on
schedule for a mid-2001 start-up.  The 900-mile pipeline will connect the Tengiz
Field in western Kazakhstan to the Black Sea port of Novorossiysk. This pipeline
will provide a less costly  transportation  alternative  for the export of TCO's
crude oil production.
     Angola - Chevron made two  significant  new oil  discoveries  - Tomboco and
Lobito - in  deepwater  Block 14,  where the  company is  operator  and has a 31
percent ownership interest.  While development plans for the two new discoveries
are in the early stages, Tomboco and Lobito provide potential synergies with the
development of two other Block 14 discoveries, Benguela and Belize.
     Chad-Cameroon - Chevron, with a 25 percent interest, and its partners began
the  development of the Doba oil fields in southern Chad and  construction  of a
650-mile  pipeline from the fields to marine  export  facilities on the coast of
Cameroon.  This  project is expected to cost $3.5  billion to develop and have a
20- to 30-year life. First production is expected in 2004.
     Nigeria - Chevron was awarded  interests in three deepwater oil prospecting
licenses (OPL) offshore Nigeria. Chevron, with a 50 percent interest, will serve
as operator of OPL 250.  The  company  also was awarded 30 percent  nonoperating
interests  in OPL 214 and OPL 318.  Work also  continues  on the  initiative  to
convert natural gas into clean  petroleum  fuels



                                      FS-3


and to  significantly  reduce the amount of flared  natural gas at the company's
producing  operations.   A  gas-to-liquids  facility,  which  will  combine  the
technologies from Sasol Limited and Chevron,  will be built adjacent to existing
operations at Escravos.
     Thailand - The  government  of  Thailand  approved  Chevron's  plan for the
development of North  Jarmjuree,  a  200-square-mile  offshore  production  area
located in Block B8/32.  North  Jarmjuree is the fourth  production area granted
within Block B8/32,  which also  includes the  Tantawan,  Benchamas  and Maliwan
fields. Chevron is operator and holds a 52 percent interest in Block B8/32.
     Canada - Chevron, as operator with a 43 percent interest,  and its partners
began  production  of  natural  gas from  two  wells  at Fort  Liard,  Northwest
Territories.  Combined production is expected to average about 105 million cubic
feet per day of natural gas and byproducts in 2001.  Construction  also began on
the mining,  extraction  and  upgrading  facilities  for the Athabasca Oil Sands
Project, in which Chevron has a 20 percent interest.  The project is expected to
begin  production in late 2002 and reach  155,000  barrels of bitumen per day at
its peak.
     U.S. Gulf of Mexico - Two additional  fields in the Viosca Knoll  Carbonate
Trend began  producing a combined 106 million  cubic feet of natural gas per day
in November 2000. Chevron is the largest contiguous leaseholder in the Carbonate
Trend, holding a majority interest in 54 leases.
     Oil and Gas Reserves Replacement - The company added 875 million barrels of
oil-equivalent  reserves during 2000, or 152 percent of production for the year,
including the effects of sales and acquisitions.  Among the major additions were
about 130 million  barrels each for the Tengiz Field in Kazakhstan  and the Chad
acquisition.  More than 175 million  barrels of the total amount were the result
of successful discoveries in areas that included Thailand,  Argentina,  Nigeria,
Angola, the United Kingdom and the U.S. Gulf of Mexico Shelf.
     Chevron  Phillips  Chemical  Company - Effective July 1, 2000,  Chevron and
Phillips  Petroleum Company  (Phillips) formed Chevron Phillips Chemical Company
LLC  (CPCC),  a  50-50  joint  venture  that  combined  most  of the  companies'
petrochemicals  businesses.  At  year-end  2000,  CPCC had total  assets of $6.7
billion.

ENVIRONMENTAL  MATTERS
- ----------------------
     Virtually all aspects of the  businesses  in which the company  engages are
subject to various  federal,  state and local  environmental,  health and safety
laws and regulations. These regulatory requirements continue to increase in both
number  and  complexity  and  govern  not only the  manner in which the  company
conducts its  operations,  but also the products it sells.  Most of the costs of
complying  with  laws and  regulations  pertaining  to  company  operations  and
products are embedded in the normal costs of doing business.
     Accidental  leaks and spills  requiring  cleanup may occur in the  ordinary
course of  business.  In  addition  to the costs  for  environmental  protection
associated  with its  ongoing  operations  and  products,  the company may incur
expenses for corrective actions at various owned and previously owned facilities
and at third-party  waste-disposal  sites used by the company. An obligation may
arise when operations are closed or sold, or at non-Chevron  sites where company
products have been handled or disposed of. Most of the  expenditures  to fulfill
these obligations relate to facilities and sites where past operations  followed
practices and  procedures  that were  considered  acceptable at the time but now
require investigative and/or remedial work to meet current standards.
     Using  definitions  and guidelines  established  by the American  Petroleum
Institute,  Chevron  estimated its worldwide  environmental  spending in 2000 at
$910 million for its consolidated companies. Included in these expenditures were
$212 million of  environmental  capital  expenditures  and $698 million of costs
associated with the control and abatement of hazardous substances and pollutants
from  ongoing  operations.  For  2001,  total  worldwide  environmental  capital
expenditures are estimated at $264 million.  These capital costs are in addition
to the ongoing costs of complying with  environmental  regulations and the costs
to remediate previously contaminated sites.
     The following table analyzes the annual changes to the company's before-tax
environmental  remediation  reserves,  including those for Superfund  sites. For
2000, the company recorded additional provisions for estimated remediation costs
at refined products marketing sites,  chemicals  manufacturing  facilities,  and
various owned and previously owned refining facilities.




     Under provisions of the Superfund law, the Environmental  Protection Agency
(EPA) has designated  Chevron a potentially  responsible party, or has otherwise
involved the company,  in the  remediation  of 315  hazardous  waste sites.  The
company  has made  expense  provisions  or  payments in 2000 and prior years for
approximately  223 of these  sites.  No single  site is  expected to result in a
material liability for the company. For the remaining sites,  investigations are
not yet at a stage where the company is able to quantify a probable liability or
determine a range of reasonably possible  exposures.  The Superfund law provides
for  joint  and  several  liability.  Any  future  actions  by the EPA and other
regulatory  agencies to require Chevron to assume other potentially  responsible
parties'  costs at designated  hazardous  waste sites are not expected to have a
material effect on the company's  consolidated financial  position or liquidity.
Remediation  reserves at year-end 2000,  1999 and 1998 for Superfund  sites were
$32 million, $33 million and $44 million, respectively.
     It  is  likely  that  the  company  will   continue  to  incur   additional
liabilities,  beyond those recorded,  for environmental  remediation relating to
past operations.  These future costs are  indeterminable  due to such factors as
the unknown magnitude of possible  contamination,  the unknown timing and extent
of the  corrective  actions  that  may be  required,  the  determination  of the
company's liability in proportion to other responsible parties and the extent to
which such costs are recoverable from third parties.  While the amount of future
costs may be material to the  company's  results of  operations in the period in
which they are  recognized,  the company  does not expect  these costs to have a
material effect on its consolidated financial position or liquidity.  Also, the
company does not believe its obligations to make such expen-


                                      FS-4


ditures  have  had,  or will  have,  any  significant  impact  on the  company's
competitive position relative to other petroleum or chemical companies.
     The company maintains  additional  reserves for dismantlement,  abandonment
and  restoration of its worldwide oil and gas and coal  properties at the end of
their productive lives. Many of these costs are related to environmental issues.
Expense provisions are recognized on a  unit-of-production  basis. The amount of
these  reserves at year-end 2000 was $1.5 billion and is included in accumulated
depreciation,  depletion and amortization in the company's  consolidated balance
sheet.
     For the company's other ongoing  operating  assets,  such as refineries and
chemicals facilities,  no provisions are made for exit or cleanup costs that may
be  required  when such assets  reach the end of their  useful  lives,  unless a
decision to sell or otherwise abandon the facility has been made.

LITIGATION AND OTHER UNCERTAINTIES
- ----------------------------------
     Chevron  and five other oil  companies  filed suit in 1995  contesting  the
validity of a patent granted to Unocal  Corporation for  reformulated  gasoline,
which Chevron sells in California in certain  months of the year. In March 2000,
the U.S.  Court of Appeals  for the  Federal  Circuit  upheld a  September  1998
District  Court  decision that  Unocal's  patent was valid and  enforceable  and
assessed damages of 5.75 cents per gallon for gasoline  produced in infringement
of the patent.  In May 2000,  the Federal  Circuit  Court  denied a petition for
rehearing  with the U.S.  Court of  Appeals  for the  Federal  Circuit  filed by
Chevron and the five other  defendants  in this case.  The  defendant  companies
petitioned  the U.S.  Supreme Court in August 2000 for the case to be heard.  In
February 2001, the Supreme Court denied the petition to review the lower court's
ruling.  The defendants are pursuing other legal  alternatives  to have Unocal's
patent ruled invalid.
     If Unocal's patent ultimately is upheld, the company's  financial exposure
includes royalties,  plus interest, for production of gasoline that is proved to
have  infringed  the patent.  As a result of the March 2000 ruling,  the company
recorded a special after-tax charge of $62 million.  The majority of this charge
pertained to the estimated royalty on gasoline production in the early part of a
four-year  period  ending  December  31,  1999 -  before  Chevron  modified  its
manufacturing  processes to minimize the  production of gasoline that  allegedly
infringed on Unocal's patented formulations.  Subsequently, the company has been
accruing in the normal  course of business any future  estimated  liability  for
potential  infringement  of the patent covered by the trial court's  ruling.  In
June 2000, Chevron paid $22.7 million to Unocal - $17.2 million for the original
court judgment for California  gasoline produced in violation of Unocal's patent
from March  through July 1996 and $5.5 million of interest and fees.  Unocal has
obtained  additional  patents for  alternate  formulations  that could  affect a
larger share of U.S.  gasoline  production.  Chevron  believes these  additional
patents are invalid and unenforceable.  However,  if such patents ultimately are
upheld,  the  competitive and financial  effects on the company's  refining and
marketing operations, while presently indeterminable, could be material.
     Another issue involving the company is the ongoing public debate concerning
the  petroleum  industry's  use of MTBE and its potential  environmental  impact
through seepage into groundwater. Along with other oil companies, the company is
a party to  lawsuits  and  claims  related  to the use of the  chemical  MTBE in
certain oxygenated  gasolines.  These actions may require the company to correct
or  ameliorate  the  alleged  effects on the  environment  of prior  disposal or
release of MTBE by the company or other parties.  Additional lawsuits and claims
related  to the use of MTBE  may be filed in the  future.  Costs to the  company
related to these lawsuits and claims are not currently determinable. Chevron has
eliminated the use of MTBE in gasoline it sells in certain areas.
     Chevron also receives claims from and submits claims to customers,  trading
partners, host governments,  contractors, insurers and suppliers. The company is
also party to numerous other lawsuits. In some of these matters,  plaintiffs and
claimants  may seek to  recover  large and  sometimes  unspecified  amounts.  In
others, they may seek to have the company perform specific activities, including
remediation of alleged damages.  These matters may remain unresolved for several
years,  and it is not practical to estimate a range of possible  loss.  Although
losses or gains could be material  to earnings in any given  period,  management
believes  that  resolution  of these  matters  will not  materially  affect  the
company's consolidated financial position or its liquidity.
     At  year-end  2000,  the  value of the  assets of the  company's  main U.S.
pension plan exceeded the projected  pension  obligations by $657 million.  This
excess can be attributable to higher than expected  returns on the investment of
the plan assets over the past several years.  If investment  returns  decline in
the future and are insufficient to offset  increases in the plan's  obligations,
pension expense may increase and additional funding may be required.
     Company  operations,   particularly  exploration  and  production,  can  be
affected by other changing  economic,  regulatory and political  environments in
the various  countries in which it operates,  including  the United  States.  In
certain  locations,  host  governments have imposed  restrictions,  controls and
taxes,  and in others,  political  conditions have existed that may threaten the
safety of employees and the  company's  continued  presence in those  countries.
Internal unrest or strained  relations between a host government and the company
or other  governments may affect the company's  operations.  Those  developments
have, at times,  significantly  affected the company's  related  operations  and
results, and are carefully considered by management when evaluating the level of
current and future  activity in such  countries.  Areas in which the company has
significant operations include the United States, Canada,  Australia, the United
Kingdom,  Norway,  Republic of Congo, Angola,  Nigeria, Chad, Equatorial Guinea,
Democratic  Republic of Congo,  Papua New Guinea,  China,  Thailand,  Venezuela,
Argentina  and  Brazil.   The  company's  Caltex   affiliates  have  significant
operations in Indonesia, Korea, Australia, Thailand, the Philippines,  Singapore
and South Africa. The company's Tengizchevroil affiliate operates in Kazakhstan.
The company's Dynegy affiliate has operations in the United States,  Canada, the
United Kingdom and other European countries.
     The  company  and its  affiliates  continue  to review  and  analyze  their
operations and may close, abandon, sell, exchange, acquire or restructure assets
to achieve operational or strategic benefits and to improve  competitiveness and
profitability.
     For oil and gas producing operations,  ownership agreements may provide for
periodic  reassessments  of equity  interests in estimated oil and gas reserves.
These activities,  individually or together,  may result in gains or losses that
could be material to earnings in any given period.



                                      FS-5

FINANCIAL  INSTRUMENTS
- ----------------------
     The company utilizes various derivative instruments,  principally swaps and
futures,  to manage its  exposure  to price risk  stemming  from its  integrated
petroleum  activities.  All these  instruments  are commonly used in oil and gas
trading  activities  and  involve  little   complexity.   (See  Note  9  to  the
consolidated  financial statements for further details.) Most of the activity in
these  instruments  is  intended  to hedge  physical  transactions.  The company
believes it has no material market or credit risks to its operations, financial
position  or  liquidity  as a result of its  commodities  and other  derivatives
activities,  including  forward exchange  contracts and interest rate swaps. Its
control  systems are designed to monitor and manage its financial  exposures in
accordance with company policies and procedures.

NEW ACCOUNTING  STANDARDS
- -------------------------
     The  company  adopted  The  Financial  Accounting  Standards  Board  (FASB)
Statement  No.  133,   "Accounting   for  Derivative   Instruments  and  Hedging
Activities" (FAS 133), as amended by FAS 138, "Accounting for Certain Derivative
Instruments and Certain Hedging  Activities - An Amendment of FASB Statement No.
133," effective January 1, 2001.  Because of Chevron's limited use of derivative
instruments (as described above), the company has elected not to account for its
derivative instruments as hedges. Accordingly,  upon adoption the fair values of
the  derivative  instruments  will be recorded as assets or  liabilities  on the
balance  sheet,  and changes in fair values of these  instruments  beyond normal
sales and purchases will be reflected in current  income.  The company may elect
to apply hedge accounting,  which has different  financial statement effects, to
possible future transactions involving derivative  instruments,  if significant.
Such an election would reduce earnings volatility that might otherwise result if
changes in fair values were  recognized in current  income.  The adoption of FAS
133 and FAS 138 did not have a significant  impact on the  company's  results of
operations or financial position.
     In September  2000,  the FASB issued  Statement  No. 140,  "Accounting  for
Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities -
A Replacement  of FASB  Statement  No. 125" (FAS 140).  FAS 140 is effective for
transfers  occurring  after  March 31,  2001,  and for  disclosures  relating to
securitization  transactions  and  collateral  for  fiscal  years  ending  after
December 15, 2000. FAS 140 has no significant effect on Chevron's  accounting or
disclosures for the types of transactions in the scope of the new standard.

EMPLOYEE TERMINATION BENEFITS AND OTHER RESTRUCTURING COSTS
- -----------------------------------------------------------
     In 1999, the company  implemented a staff  reduction  program in all of its
operating  segments across several  business  functions and accrued $220 million
before tax for severance and other termination  benefits for approximately 3,500
employees.   Employees   affected  were  primarily   U.S.-based.   All  employee
terminations  were completed by June 30, 2000,  and no  significant  adjustments
were  required  for  amounts  previously  accrued.   Termination   benefits  for
approximately  3,100 of the 3,500  employees were payable from the assets of the
company's U.S. and Canadian pension plans.  Most of the future savings connected
with this  program  relate  to the  termination  and  relocation  of  U.S.-based
employees.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
- ---------------------
     Sales and other  operating  revenues were $50.6  billion in 2000,  compared
with $35.4 billion in 1999 and $29.9 billion in 1998. Revenues for 2000 and 1999
increased  on  sharply  higher  prices for crude oil,  natural  gas and  refined
products.  The 2000  revenue  increase  was offset  partially  by the absence of
chemicals revenues in the second half of the year due to the July 1 formation of
the Chevron  Phillips  joint  venture,  which is accounted  for under the equity
method.
     Income from equity affiliates totaled $750 million in 2000, $526 million in
1999 and $228  million in 1998.  Changes in  earnings  from  Tengizchevroil  and
Caltex  were the  primary  cause of the  fluctuations  between  years.  In 2000,
increases  in  earnings  from  Tengizchevroil,  Caltex  and Dynegy  were  offset
partially by losses from the Chevron Phillips joint venture.
     Other income  totaled  $787 million in 2000,  $612 million in 1999 and $386
million in 1998.  The  fluctuations  between years were the result of changes in
net gains from asset sales and interest income from investments.
     Purchased  crude oil and products costs in 2000 were 52 percent higher than
in 1999 and 94 percent  higher than in 1998  because of higher  prices for crude
oil,  natural  gas,  refined  products  and  chemicals  feedstock.  Prices  fell
precipitously  in 1998 and did not begin to  recover  until the  second  quarter
1999.  Offsetting some of the effect of higher prices in 2000 was the absence of
costs as a result of the Chevron Phillips joint venture formation.
     Operating,  selling,  general and  administrative  expenses,  excluding the
effects of special  items,  increased to $6,487  million- from $6,169 million in
1999 and $6,251 million in 1998- primarily due to higher fuel costs.  Mitigating
this effect





was the absence of expenses associated with the chemicals operations contributed
to the Chevron Phillips joint venture.
     Exploration expenses of $564 million in 2000 were $26 million, or 5 percent
higher than 1999,  and $86  million,  or 18 percent  higher than 1998.  In 2000,
increased  drilling in the  deepwater  U.S.  Gulf of Mexico led to a doubling of
well write-offs for U.S. operations.  This increase more than offset declines in
international  operations.  Compared with 1998, both U.S. and international well
write-offs in 1999 were significantly higher.
     Depreciation,  depletion  and  amortization  expense was $2,848  million in
2000,  compared  with  $2,866  million  in 1999  and  $2,320  million  in  1998.
Depreciation expense associated with asset impairments in 2000 was $138 million,
compared  with  $394  million  in 1999  and  $100  million  in  1998.  Increased
production  of crude oil and  natural  gas in 2000 and 1999  resulted  in higher
depreciation expense in the company's worldwide upstream operations. The overall
2000  expense  reflects  lower  depreciation  in chemicals  (resulting  from the
Chevron Phillips joint venture formation) and other operations.
     Income tax expenses were $4,085 million in 2000, $1,578 million in 1999 and
$495 million in 1998,  reflecting  effective income tax rates of 44 percent,  43
percent and 27 percent for each of the three years,  respectively.  The increase
in the 2000 effective tax rate was primarily the result of lower



                                      FS-6


after-tax  earnings from equity affiliates as a proportion of before-tax income,
the absence of tax  benefits  attributable  to the 1999  utilization  of capital
losses and a decline in U.S. tax credits as a proportion of  before-tax  income.
Partially  offsetting these factors in 2000 were lower foreign income taxes as a
percentage  of  income  and a  reduction  in  the  impact  of  prior-  year  tax
adjustments.
     The increase in the 1999 effective tax rate, compared with 1998,  reflected
a higher proportion of earnings from international operations that were taxed at
higher rates;  a lower  beneficial  impact from  prior-period  tax  adjustments,
settlement of outstanding  issues, and permanent  differences in 1999; and lower
tax credits as a proportion  of  before-tax  income.  These  factors were offset
slightly by the effect of lower  taxes on taxable  income  received  from equity
affiliates in 1999.
     Foreign  currency gains in 2000 were $142 million,  compared with losses of
$38  million in 1999 and $47  million  in 1998.  During  most of 2000,  the U.S.
dollar  strengthened   against  the  currencies  of  a  number  of  countries  -
particularly Australia, the United Kingdom, Norway, Canada and certain countries
in the Caltex  operating area - before  weakening late in the year. In 1999, the
company's foreign exchange




losses  occurred  primarily in the company's  operations in Canada and Australia
and in the Australian  operations of Caltex. The most significant losses in 1998
were in Caltex's operations in Korea, Thailand and Japan.
     U.S.  exploration  and  production  earnings  in 2000 and  1999,  excluding
special items,  were driven by sustained  increases in crude oil and natural gas
prices that began in early 1999.  Expenses  were higher in 2000,  primarily  for
well  write-offs,  production-related  taxes  and  operating  expenses-  largely
associated  with higher  fuel  costs.  Gains from asset sales were lower than in
1999 and 1998.
     The company's average 2000 U.S. crude oil realization of $27.20 per barrel
was $11.09 higher than in 1999 and $15.78



higher than 1998. The 2000 average U.S.  natural gas realization was $4.04 per
thousand cubic feet, $1.88 higher than in 1999 and double the prices in 1998.
     Net liquids  production for the year averaged 312,000 barrels per day, down
1 percent from 1999 and 4 percent from 1998.  Net natural gas production in 2000
averaged  1.558  billion  cubic  feet per day,  down 5 percent  from 1999 and 10
percent from 1998. The lower  oil-equivalent  production  reflected normal field
declines and asset sales, partially offset by new and enhanced production in the
Gulf of Mexico  deep  water and other  areas of the gulf.  The  decline  in U.S.
production  in  2000  was  mitigated  by  accelerating   capital   spending  for
fast-payout  well  workovers and  development  drilling  projects that increased
production and took advantage of the favorable price environment.





     International exploration and production earnings, excluding special items,
improved  in 2000 and 1999 on  higher  crude oil and  natural  gas  prices  and
steadily increasing production.
     Chevron's average liquids  realization,  including equity  affiliates,  was
$27.12 per barrel in 2000,  compared  with  $17.31 per barrel in 1999 and $11.77
per barrel in 1998. The average  natural gas  realization was $2.45 per thousand
cubic feet in 2000, compared with $1.87 in 1999 and $1.94 in 1998.


                                      FS-7


     Net  liquids  production  of 847,000  barrels  per day in 2000  increased 4
percent from 811,000 barrels per day in 1999 and 8 percent from 1998. Production
increases in Argentina,  Angola, Australia and Thailand in 2000 more than offset
lower  volumes from  Indonesia and  Colombia.  In 1999,  increases in Angola and
Kazakhstan,  combined with production from properties  acquired in Argentina and
Thailand, offset declines in Australia, Indonesia and Nigeria.
     Net  natural  gas  production  of 911  million  cubic feet in 2000 was up 4
percent from 1999 and nearly 40 percent from 1998. In 2000, production increases
were  primarily in Argentina  and  Thailand,  partially  offset by sharply lower
production  in  Canada,  due  primarily  to normal declines  in  mature  fields.
Increases in 1999 were from the Britannia Field in the United  Kingdom,  as well
as from new production from the properties acquired in Thailand and Argentina.
     For 11 consecutive years through 2000, international production volumes and
proved  reserve  quantities  increased,  reflecting  the  company's  strategy of
expanding its international  upstream operations.  Oil-equivalent  production in
2000  increased  over  9  percent-  including  volumes  produced  under  various
international  operating  service  agreements,  and adjusting for the effects of
higher  prices on Chevron's  share of net  production  under  production-sharing
contracts  and  variable  royalty  arrangements.  At  year-end,   oil-equivalent
reserves were higher than year-end 1999 by 8 percent.



     U.S.  refining,  marketing and transportation  earnings,  excluding special
items,  doubled in 2000 to $778  million  and  exceeded  1998  earnings  of $633
million by 23 percent. Special items in 2000 included environmental  remediation
provisions for certain of the company's  refining and marketing  sites,  some of
which  had been  sold or closed in prior  years.  Earnings  improved  in 2000 on
higher  margins and more reliable West Coast  refinery  operations.  Earnings in
1999 suffered from lower sales margins and operational problems at the company's
California  refineries,  including a fire and, some months  later,  a detonation
that  did not  result  in a fire,  at the  Richmond  Refinery.  These  incidents
affected capacity and efficiency to produce blending components for diesel fuel,
jet fuel and gasoline.  These effects in 1999 were offset partially by increases
in refined products sales volumes and higher proceeds from business interruption
insurance.
     Refined  products  sales volumes of 1.327  million  barrels per day in 2000
increased 2 percent over 1999  volumes and 7 percent from 1998 levels.  The 2000
sales  volumes  reflected  increases  in  higher-  value  gasoline  and jet fuel
volumes,  more  than  offsetting  a  decline  in sales  of  residual  fuel  oil.
Additionally,   sales  in  2000  suffered  from  the  effect  of  1999  year-end
stockpiling  by  customers  in  anticipation   of  possible  Year   2000-related
interruptions.  U.S. refined products sales realizations were $39.32 per barrel,
up 46 percent from 1999  realizations  of $26.86,  and up 76 percent from 1998's
depressed levels.
     International  refining,  marketing  and  transportation  earnings  include
results of the company's  consolidated Canadian refining and marketing business,
international  marine operations,  international  supply and trading activities,
and  equity  earnings  of Caltex  Corporation.  Excluding  special  items,  2000
earnings of $116  million  improved  from $49 million in 1999,  but were about 6
percent lower than the $123 million  recorded in 1998.  Earnings  benefited from
foreign  exchange  gains of $74  million in 2000,  compared  with  losses of $21
million in 1999 and $69 million in 1998.




      The Caltex component of segment results for the years 1998 through 2000 is
shown in the table below.



     Earnings for Caltex suffered from a very competitive operating environment,
including excess refinery  capacity in the  Asia-Pacific  region during 2000 and
1999 and weak  sales  margins  in most of its areas of  operations.  Competitive
pressures prevented refined products sales realizations from rising sufficiently
to recover higher crude costs.
     International  refined  products sales volumes were 769,000 barrels per day
in 2000,  down nearly 8 percent from 832,000  barrels per day in 1999 and down 4
percent  from 798,000  barrels per day in 1998.  Lower  trading  volumes and the
third quarter 1999 sale of a Caltex affiliate primarily were responsible for the
decline in sales volumes in 2000.  Higher Caltex sales  volumes  primarily  were
responsible for the 1999 increase.



                                      FS-8




     Chemicals  earnings in 2000  included  results from the  company's  Oronite
division, the company's  petrochemicals  businesses prior to its contribution to
CPCC in July 2000, and equity  earnings in CPCC for the second half of the year.
The  special  item  for  asset  write-downs  in 2000  was for  this  affiliate's
impairment  of  assets  in  Puerto  Rico.  Operationally,   commodity  chemicals
businesses  suffered  in the second  half of 2000 from  generally  weak  product
demand,  industry  additions  to  manufacturing  capacity  and high raw material
costs.
     Earnings in 1999 benefited from improved sales margins for major  products,
higher  sales  volumes  and lower  operating  expenses.  The 1998  results  were
adversely affected by plant shutdowns for expansions and storm damage repairs.



All Other consists of coal mining operations, the company's ownership
interest in Dynegy Inc., worldwide cash management and debt financing
activities, corporate administrative costs, insurance operations and real
estate activities.
     Earnings,  excluding  special items, for the company's coal operations were
$1 million in 2000,  compared  with $34 million in 1999 and $77 million in 1998.
Earnings in 2000 were  affected  negatively by a union work stoppage for several
months  during the year and  operating  and  geologic  complications  at certain
mines. In 1999, results were lower than in 1998 primarily because of the absence
of earnings  from an affiliate  sold in the first  quarter of 1999,  lower sales
tonnage and prices for the  remaining  coal  business,  and  adjustments  to the
carrying value of the operations that were under active  negotiation for sale at
that time.
     Chevron's  share  of  Dynegy  operating   earnings  was  $119  million,   a
significant  increase  from  $44  million  in 1999  and  $35  million  in  1998.
Significantly  higher  prices for  natural  gas and  natural  gas liquids and an
increase in earnings from power  generation  activities were the primary reasons
for the improved results.
     Net  charges for the balance of the All Other  segment,  excluding  special
items, were $245 million in 2000, $351 million in 1999 and $137 million in 1998.
Lower interest expense,  higher interest income and decreases in other corporate
expenses resulted in lower 2000 net charges than in 1999. The primary factors in
the higher  level of charges in 1999 as  compared  with 1998 were an increase in
debt and lower cash balances,  which caused interest  expense to be higher,  and
reduced interest income.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
- -------------------------------
     Cash, cash  equivalents and marketable  securities  totaled $2.6 billion at
year-end 2000, up 29 percent from $2.0 billion at year-end  1999.  Cash provided
by operating activities in 2000 was $8.7 billion,  compared with $4.5 billion in
1999 and $3.7 billion in 1998,  benefiting  from higher  earnings.  In addition,
Chevron  received  a cash  distribution  in 2000 of $835  million  from  Chevron
Phillips Chemical Co. after the joint venture obtained debt financing.  Improved
cash flows in 2000  permitted the company to reduce  overall debt levels by $2.7
billion and repurchase $1.4 billion of the company's common shares.  In 1999 and
1998, debt levels increased by $1.4 billion and $1.5 billion,  respectively,  as
cash provided by operating activities and asset sales was not sufficient to fund
the company's  total cash  requirements.  In 1999, a payment of $775 million was
also made to Occidental Petroleum in settlement of the Cities Service lawsuit.
     In 2000, the company paid dividends of $2.60 per share, compared with $2.48
per  share  in 1999  and  $2.44  per  share  in  1998,  increasing  for the 13th
consecutive  year. In January  2001,  the company  declared a regular  quarterly
dividend of 65 cents a share on its common  stock,  unchanged  from the previous
quarter.
     The company's total debt and capital lease  obligations were $6.232 billion
at December 31,  2000, a decrease of 30 percent from $8.919  billion at year-end
1999.  In early  February  2001,  the  company  announced  a public  offering to
repurchase  $350 million of 7.45 percent  guaranteed  notes maturing in 2004. At
the  close  of the  offering  in late  February,  about  $230  million  had been
acquired.
     At year-end 2000, Chevron had $3.250 billion in committed credit facilities
with various major banks,  $2.725 billion of which had termination  dates beyond
one year.  These facilities  support  commercial paper borrowing and also can be
used for general credit requirements. No borrowings were outstanding under these
facilities  during the year or at year-end 2000. In addition,  Chevron has three
existing  "shelf"  registrations  on  file  with  the  Securities  and  Exchange
Commission that together would permit registered offerings of up to $2.8 billion
of debt securities.
     The company's debt due within 12 months, consisting primarily of commercial
paper and the current  portion of  long-term  debt,  totaled  $3.804  billion at
December  31,  2000.  Of  this  total  short-term   debt,   $2.725  billion  was
reclassified to long-term debt at year-end 2000. Settlement of these obligations
is not  expected to require the use of working  capital in 2001,  as the company
has the intent and the ability,  as evidenced by committed credit  arrangements,
to  refinance  them on a long-term  basis.  The  company's  practice has been to
continually refinance its commercial paper, maintaining levels it believes to be
appropriate.


                                      FS-9


     To allow  Chevron  to  continue  active  relationships  with  institutional
investors  in its  commercial  paper,  the company  instituted a program in 2000
under  which it sells  commercial  paper and  reinvests  the  borrowed  funds in
money-market  instruments  with similar terms. At December 31, 2000, the company
had  incremental  short-term  debt and  investments  of $84  million  under this
program.
     The  company's  future debt level is dependent  primarily on its results of
operations and capital-spending program. The company believes it has substantial
borrowing capacity to meet unanticipated cash requirements.
     In December 1997,  Chevron's Board of Directors  approved the repurchase of
up to $2  billion  of the  company's  outstanding  common  stock  for use in its
employee  stock option  programs.  In 2000,  prior to suspending  the program in
October upon  announcement of the merger agreement with Texaco,  the company had
repurchased 16.9 million shares at a cost of $1.406 billion.  Total  repurchases
from the  program's  inception  were  23.3  million  shares  at a cost of $1.890
billion.



FINANCIAL  RATIOS
- -----------------
     The  year-end  current  ratio is the ratio of  current  assets  to  current
liabilities.  Generally, two items adversely affect Chevron's current ratio, but
in the  company's  opinion do not affect its  liquidity.  Current  assets in all
years included  inventories  valued on a LIFO basis, which at year-end 2000 were
lower than current costs,  based on average  acquisition  costs for the year, by
nearly $2 billion.  Also, the company benefits from lower interest  available on
short-term debt by continually  refinancing its commercial paper. In past years,
Chevron's proportionately large amount of short-term debt contributed to keeping
its ratio of current  assets to current  liabilities  at a relatively low level.
However, at year-end 2000, only $94 million of commercial paper, after excluding
$2.725  billion  reclassified  to long-term  debt,  was  classified as a current
liability.  Strong cash flows  during 2000  permitted  the company to reduce the
level of commercial paper required to fund its cash requirements.
     The interest coverage ratio is defined as income before income tax expense,
plus interest and debt expense and amortization of capitalized interest, divided
by  before-tax  interest  costs.  Chevron's  interest  coverage  ratio  improved
significantly  in 2000,  primarily  due to higher  before-tax  income  and lower
interest  expense as a result of lower debt  levels.  The  company's  debt ratio
(total  debt/total  debt plus equity)  declined about a third to 23.8 percent in
2000, due to the significant  reduction in overall debt balances and an increase
in equity for the year.

CAPITAL  AND  EXPLORATORY   EXPENDITURES
- ----------------------------------------
     Worldwide  capital and  exploratory  expenditures  for 2000 totaled  $5.153
billion,  including the company's  equity share of  affiliates'  expenditures.
Capital and  exploratory  expenditures  were  $6.133  billion in 1999 and $5.314
billion  in  1998.   Expenditures  for  exploration  and  production  activities
represented  62 percent of total  outlays in 2000,  compared  with 73 percent in
1999 and 59 percent in 1998.  International  exploration and production spending
was 60 percent of worldwide  exploration  and production  expenditures  in 2000,
compared  with 80  percent  in 1999  and 62  percent  in  1998,  reflecting  the
company's   continuing  focus  on   international   exploration  and  production
activities.  Included in 1999 were  expenditures  of about $1.7 billion - mainly
cash  and  assumption  of debt - for the  acquisition  of  Rutherford-Moran  Oil
Corporation and Petrolera  Argentina San Jorge S.A.,  exploration and production
businesses in Thailand and Argentina,  respectively.  All Other  expenditures in
2000 included an additional investment of about $300 million in Dynegy Inc.
     The company  estimates 2001 capital and  exploratory  expenditures  at $6.0
billion,  including Chevron's share of spending by affiliates.  This is up about
16 percent from 2000 spending levels. The 2001 program provides $3.7 billion for
exploration   and  production   investments,   of  which  $2.5  billion  is  for
international  projects.  Major areas of emphasis for exploration and production
are Kazakhstan,  Africa, Argentina,  Thailand, Canada and the deep waters of the
Gulf of Mexico. Successful implementation of the planned expenditure program for
2001 will depend upon many factors, including the ability of partners in many of
these  projects,  some of which are  national  petroleum  companies of producing
countries, to fund their shares of project expenditures.
     Refining and  marketing  expenditures  are estimated at about $900 million,
with $600  million of that planned for  projects in the United  States,  most of
which will be spent to increase retail volumes and convenience  store revenue as
well  as  streamline   distribution   channels.   The  largest  portion  of  the
international  refining and  marketing  capital  program will be invested by the
company's Caltex affiliate.  Transportation  expenditures are estimated at about
$500 million, primarily for international pipelines related to expanded upstream
production. Investments in power and natural gas facilities and distribution and
in  technology  will total $650  million,  most of which will be invested by the
company's Dynegy affiliate.  The company also plans to invest about $250 million
in the worldwide chemicals business.
     The spending plans discussed above are for Chevron as a stand-alone  entity
and do not reflect the impact of the pending  merger with  Texaco.  They also do
not  include  the   acquisition  of  an  additional  5  percent  equity  in  the
Tengizchevroil project in Kazakhstan, which closed in January 2001.





                                     FS-10




                              REPORT OF MANAGEMENT

TO THE STOCKHOLDERS OF CHEVRON CORPORATION

Management of Chevron is responsible  for preparing the  accompanying  financial
statements and for ensuring their integrity and objectivity. The statements were
prepared in accordance  with  accounting  principles  generally  accepted in the
United  States of America and fairly  represent the  transactions  and financial
position of the company. The financial statements include amounts that are based
on management's best estimates and judgments.
     The company's statements have been audited by  PricewaterhouseCoopers  LLP,
independent  accountants,  selected by the Audit  Committee  and approved by the
stockholders.  Management has made available to  PricewaterhouseCoopers  LLP all
the  company's  financial  records  and related  data, as well as the minutes of
stockholders' and directors' meetings.
     Management  of the  company  has  established  and  maintains  a system  of
internal  accounting  controls that is designed to provide reasonable  assurance
that assets are safeguarded,  transactions are properly recorded and executed in
accordance with management's authorization, and the books and records accurately
reflect the  disposition  of assets.  The system of internal  controls  includes
appropriate division of responsibility.  The company maintains an internal audit
department   that  conducts  an  extensive   program  of  internal   audits  and
independently assesses the effectiveness of the internal controls.
     The Audit  Committee  is  composed  of  directors  who are not  officers or
employees of the company.  It meets  regularly with members of  management,  the
internal auditors and the independent accountants to discuss the adequacy of the
company's internal controls,  its financial  statements,  and the nature, extent
and results of the audit effort.  Both the internal auditors and the independent
accountants  have free and  direct  access to the Audit  Committee  without  the
presence of management.



/s/ David J. O'Reilly       /s/ John S. Watson            /s/ Stephen J. Crowe

David J. O'Reilly           John S. Watson                Stephen J. Crowe
Chairman of the Board       Vice President                Vice President
and Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer   and Comptroller

February 26, 2001


                                     FS-11








                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

TO THE STOCKHOLDERS
AND THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF CHEVRON CORPORATION

In our  opinion,  the  consolidated  financial  statements  listed  in the index
appearing  under  Item  14(a)(1)  on  page 23  present  fairly  in all  material
respects,  the financial position of Chevron Corporation and its subsidiaries at
December 31, 2000 and 1999,  and the results of their  operations and their cash
flows for each of the three years in the period  ended  December  31,  2000,  in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America. In addition, in our opinion, the financial statement schedule listed in
the index  appearing  under Item  14(a)(2)  on page 24 presents  fairly,  in all
material  respects,  the  information  set forth therin when read in conjunction
with the related  consolidated  statements.  These financial  statements are the
responsibility of the company's management;  our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these  financial  statements  based on our audits.  We conducted  our
audits of these  statements in  accordance  with  auditing  standards  generally
accepted in the United States of America, which require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable  assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence  supporting the amounts and  disclosures  in the financial  statements,
assessing the  accounting  principles  used and  significant  estimates  made by
management,  and evaluating the overall  financial  statement  presentation.  We
believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.


/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

San Francisco, California
February 26, 2001

                                     FS-12





                                     FS-13








                                     FS-14






                                     FS-15


                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                 Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts


Note 1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT  ACCOUNTING  POLICIES
Chevron  Corporation  manages its investments  in, and provides  administrative,
financial  and  management  support  to,  U.S.  and  foreign   subsidiaries  and
affiliates  that  engage in fully  integrated  petroleum  operations,  chemicals
operations  and coal  mining.  Collectively,  these  companies,  referred  to as
Chevron,  operate in the United States and  approximately  100 other  countries.
Petroleum  operations  consist of exploring for,  developing and producing crude
oil and  natural  gas;  refining  crude oil into  finished  petroleum  products;
marketing crude oil,  natural gas and the many products  derived from petroleum;
and  transporting  crude oil,  natural gas and petroleum  products by pipelines,
marine vessels,  motor equipment and rail car. Chemicals  operations include the
manufacture and marketing of commodity  petrochemicals,  plastics for industrial
uses, and fuel and lube oil additives.
     In preparing its  consolidated  financial  statements,  the company follows
accounting policies that are in accordance with accounting  principles generally
accepted  in  the  United  States.  This  requires  the  use  of  estimates  and
assumptions that affect the assets, liabilities,  revenues and expenses reported
in the financial  statements,  as well as amounts included in the notes thereto,
including discussion and disclosure of contingent liabilities. While the company
uses its best  estimates and  judgments,  actual results could differ from these
estimates as future confirming events occur.
     The nature of the company's  operations  and the many countries in which it
operates subject it to changing economic,  regulatory and political  conditions.
The company does not believe it is vulnerable to the risk of a near-term  severe
impact as a result of any concentration of its activities.

Subsidiary  and  Affiliated  Companies
The  consolidated  financial  statements  include  the  accounts  of  subsidiary
companies more than 50 percent owned.  Investments in and advances to affiliates
in which the company has a substantial  ownership  interest of  approximately 20
percent to 50 percent, or for which the company exercises  significant influence
but not control over policy  decisions,  are accounted for by the equity method.
Under this accounting,  remaining  unamortized cost is increased or decreased by
the company's share of earnings or losses after dividends. Gains and losses that
arise from the issuance of stock by an affiliate  that results in changes in the
company's proportionate share of the dollar amount of the affiliate's equity are
recognized  currently  in income.  Deferred  income taxes are provided for these
gains and losses.

Derivatives
Gains and losses on hedges of existing assets or liabilities are included in the
carrying amounts of those assets or liabilities and are ultimately recognized in
income as part of those carrying amounts. Gains and losses related to qualifying
hedges of firm commitments or anticipated transactions also are deferred and are
recognized in income or as adjustments  of carrying  amounts when the underlying
hedged  transaction  occurs.  Cash flows  associated with these  derivatives are
reported with the underlying hedged  transaction's cash flows. If, subsequent to
being hedged, underlying transactions are no longer likely to occur, the related
derivatives  gains and  losses are  recognized  currently  in income.  Gains and
losses on  derivatives  contracts  that do not qualify as hedges are  recognized
currently  in "Other  income."  The  adoption on January 1, 2001,  of  Financial
Accounting  Standards Board (FASB) Statement No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative
Instruments  and Hedging  Activities,"  (FAS 133), and FAS 138,  "Accounting for
Certain Derivative  Instruments and Certain Hedging Activities - An Amendment of
FASB  Statement  No. 133," is not expected to have a  significant  effect on the
company's results of operations or consolidated financial position.

Short-Term  Investments
All  short-term  investments  are  classified  as available  for sale and are in
highly liquid debt or equity securities.  Those investments that are part of the
company's cash management  portfolio with original maturities of three months or
less  are  reported  as  "Cash  equivalents."  The  balance  of  the  short-term
investments is reported as "Marketable  securities."  Short-term investments are
marked-to-market   with  any  unrealized  gains  or  losses  included  in  other
comprehensive income.

Inventories
Crude oil, petroleum products and chemicals are stated at cost, using a Last-In,
First-Out  (LIFO)  method.  In the  aggregate,  these  costs are  below  market.
Materials, supplies and other inventories generally are stated at average cost.

Properties,  Plant and Equipment
The successful efforts method is used for oil and gas exploration and production
activities.  All costs for development wells,  related plant and equipment,  and
proved mineral  interests in oil and gas properties  are  capitalized.  Costs of
exploratory  wells are capitalized  pending  determination  of whether the wells
found proved  reserves.  Costs of wells that are assigned proved reserves remain
capitalized.  Costs  also are  capitalized  for  wells  that  find  commercially
producible reserves that cannot be classified as proved,  pending one or more of
the following:  (1) decisions on additional major capital expenditures,  (2) the
results of additional  exploratory  wells that are under way or firmly  planned,
and (3) securing final  regulatory  approvals for development.  Otherwise,  well
costs are expensed if a  determination  cannot be made within one year following
completion  of  drilling as to whether  proved  reserves  were found.  All other
exploratory wells and costs are expensed.
     Long-lived  assets,  including proved oil and gas properties,  are assessed
for possible impairment by comparing their carrying values with the undiscounted
future net  before-tax  cash flows.  Impaired  assets are written  down to their
estimated fair values, generally their discounted cash flows. For proved oil and
gas  properties  in the  United  States,  the  company  generally  performs  the
impairment  review on an  individual  field  basis.  Outside the United  States,
reviews are performed on a country or concession basis.  Impairment  amounts are
recorded as  incremental  depreciation  expense in the period in which the event
occurs.
     Depreciation and depletion (including provisions for future abandonment and
restoration  costs) of all  capitalized  costs of proved  oil and gas  producing
properties,  except mineral interests, are expensed using the unit-of-production
method by  individual  fields as the proved  developed  reserves  are  produced.
Depletion  expenses  for  capitalized  costs of  proved  mineral  interests  are
recognized  using  the  unit-of-production  method by  individual  fields as the
related  proved  reserves  are  produced.   Periodic  valuation  provisions  for
impairment of capitalized costs of unproved mineral interests are expensed.


                                     FS-16

Note 1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT  ACCOUNTING  POLICIES - Continued

     Depreciation  and  depletion  expenses  for coal are  determined  using the
unit-of-production  method as the proved reserves are produced.  The capitalized
costs of all other plant and equipment are  depreciated  or amortized over their
estimated  useful lives.  In general,  the  declining-balance  method is used to
depreciate plant and equipment in the United States;  the  straight-line  method
generally  is  used to  depreciate  international  plant  and  equipment  and to
amortize all capitalized leased assets.
     Gains or losses are not  recognized  for normal  retirements of properties,
plant and equipment  subject to composite group  amortization  or  depreciation.
Gains or losses from abnormal  retirements are included in operating expense and
sales are included in "Other income."
     Expenditures  for  maintenance,  repairs  and minor  renewals  to  maintain
facilities in operating  condition are expensed as incurred.  Major replacements
and renewals are capitalized.

Environmental  Expenditures
Environmental  expenditures  that relate to ongoing  operations or to conditions
caused by past operations are expensed. Expenditures that create future benefits
or contribute to future revenue generation are capitalized.
     Liabilities   related  to  future   remediation  costs  are  recorded  when
environmental  assessments  and/or  cleanups  are  probable and the costs can be
reasonably  estimated.  Other than for assessments,  the timing and magnitude of
these accruals are generally based on the company's  commitment to a formal plan
of action,  such as an approved  remediation  plan or the sale or disposal of an
asset. For the company's U.S. and Canadian marketing facilities,  the accrual is
based on the probability that a future remediation  commitment will be required.
For  oil,  gas and  coal  producing  properties,  a  provision  is made  through
depreciation  expense for anticipated  abandonment and restoration  costs at the
end of a property's useful life.
     For Superfund sites, the company records a liability for its share of costs
when it has been  named as a  Potentially  Responsible  Party  (PRP) and when an
assessment  or cleanup  plan has been  developed.  This  liability  includes the
company's own portion of the costs and also the company's portion of amounts for
other PRPs when it is probable  that they will not be able to pay their share of
the cleanup obligation.
     The company  records the gross  amount of its  liability  based on its best
estimate of future  costs using  currently  available  technology  and  applying
current  regulations  as  well  as  the  company's  own  internal  environmental
policies.  Future amounts are not discounted.  Recoveries or reimbursements  are
recorded as an asset when receipt is reasonably ensured.

Currency  Translation
The U.S.  dollar  is the  functional  currency  for the  company's  consolidated
operations as well as for substantially all operations of its equity affiliates.
For those  operations,  all  gains or  losses  from  currency  transactions  are
currently  included in income.  The cumulative  translation  effects for the few
equity  affiliates  using  functional  currencies other than the U.S. dollar are
included in the currency translation adjustment in stockholders' equity.

Taxes
Income taxes are accrued for retained earnings of international subsidiaries and
corporate joint ventures  intended to be remitted.  Income taxes are not accrued
for  unremitted  earnings of  international  operations  that have been,  or are
intended to be, reinvested indefinitely.

Revenue  Recognition
Revenues  associated with sales of crude oil,  natural gas, coal,  petroleum and
chemicals products,  and all other sources are recorded when title passes to the
customer, net of royalties,  discounts and allowances,  as applicable.  Revenues
from natural gas  production  from  properties  in which Chevron has an interest
with other  producers  are  recognized on the basis of the company's net working
interest (entitlement method).

Stock Compensation
The  company  applies   Accounting   Principles  Board  (APB)  Opinion  No.  25,
"Accounting  for Stock  Issued to  Employees,"  and related  interpretations  in
accounting  for stock  options and  presents in Note 20 pro forma net income and
earnings  per  share  data  as if the  accounting  prescribed  by FAS  No.  123,
"Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation," had been applied.

Note 2.  FORMATION OF CHEVRON  PHILLIPS  CHEMICAL  COMPANY LLC
Effective July 1, 2000, Chevron and Phillips Petroleum Company (Phillips) formed
Chevron  Phillips  Chemical  Company  LLC (CPCC) - a 50-50  joint  venture  that
combined most of the petrochemicals businesses of Chevron and Phillips.  Chevron
is accounting  for its interest  using the equity  method,  in  accordance  with
Accounting  Principles  Board  (APB)  Opinion  No.  18,  "The  Equity  Method of
Accounting  for  Investments  in Common  Stock."  The net  amount of assets  and
liabilities  contributed to CPCC was  reclassified to "Investments and advances"
in the consolidated balance sheet. No gain or loss was recognized at the time of
contribution,  as the  transaction  represented  the exchange of a  consolidated
business for an interest in a private joint venture and was not the  culmination
of the  earnings  process.  The  difference  of  approximately  $100 between the
carrying value of the  investment and the amount of underlying  equity in CPCC's
net assets is being  amortized  as a benefit  to income  over the next 10 years.
Chevron's  share of CPCC's  results of  operations  is recorded to "Income  from
equity affiliates." Because CPCC is a limited liability company, Chevron records
the provision for income taxes and related tax liability applicable to its share
of CPCC's income separately in its consolidated financial statements.
     The  equity  accounting  treatment  for  Chevron's  share of the net assets
contributed to CPCC resulted in significant  variances  between 2000 and 1999 in
the individual line captions appearing in the financial statements. The carrying
amounts  at July  1,  2000,  of the  principal  assets  and  liabilities  of the
businesses  Chevron  contributed to CPCC were  approximately $600 of net working
capital; $2,100 of net properties,  plant and equipment; and $100 of investments
and advances.
     Upon formation,  the joint venture  obtained debt financing and made a cash
payment of $835 to each owner.

                                     FS-17


Note 3. SPECIAL ITEMS AND OTHER FINANCIAL  INFORMATION
Net  income  is  affected  by  transactions  that  are  unrelated  to or are not
necessarily  representative of the company's ongoing  operations for the periods
presented.  These  transactions,  defined by management and designated  "special
items," can obscure the  underlying  results of operations for a year as well as
affect comparability of results between years.
     Listed  below are  categories  of  special  items  and  their net  increase
(decrease) to net income, after related tax effects.




     In accordance with its policy,  the company recorded  impairments of assets
to be held and used when changes in  circumstances - primarily  related to lower
oil and gas prices, downward revisions of reserves and changes in the use of the
assets - indicated that the carrying values of the assets could not be recovered
through estimated future before-tax  undiscounted cash flows.  Asset impairments
included  in asset  write-offs  and  revaluations  were for assets held for use,
except for U.S. coal assets, which were held for sale for approximately one year
during 1998 and 1999. In late 1999,  these assets were  reclassified to held for
use upon cessation of negotiations with potential buyers.
     The aggregate income statement  effects from special items are reflected in
the following table,  including  Chevron's  proportionate share of special items
related to equity affiliates.



Other financial information is as follows:



The excess of current  cost  (based on average  acquisition  costs for the year)
over the  carrying  value of  inventories  for which the LIFO method is used was
$1,977, $871 and $584 at December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.
     At December 31, 1999, a liability of $85 remained for employee  termination
benefits relating to the  restructuring  charge recorded during the year. During
2000, these amounts were paid, all employee  terminations  were completed and no
significant adjustments were required for amounts previously accrued.


                                     FS-18




Note 4. CUMULATIVE  EFFECT ON NET INCOME FROM ACCOUNTING  CHANGES
In April 1998, The American  Institute of Certified Public  Accountants  (AICPA)
released  Statement  of  Position  98-5,  "Reporting  on the  Costs of  Start-up
Activities"(SOP98-5), which introduced a broad definition of items to expense as
incurred for start-up activities, including new products/services,  entering new
territories,  initiating new processes or commencing new operations. Chevron was
substantially in compliance with the pronouncement.  However, Caltex capitalized
these types of costs for certain projects. Chevron recorded its $25 share of the
charge  associated  with Caltex's  1998  implementation  of SOP 98-5,  effective
January 1, 1998.
     Also in 1998,  Chevron changed its method of calculating  certain  Canadian
deferred income taxes,  effective  January 1, 1998. The benefit from this change
was $32.
     The net benefit to Chevron's 1998 net income from the cumulative  effect of
adopting  SOP 98-5 by Caltex and the change in Chevron's  method of  calculating
Canadian deferred taxes was immaterial.

Note 5.  INFORMATION  RELATING TO THE  CONSOLIDATED  STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
The major components of "Capital  expenditures"  and the  reconciliation of this
amount  to  the  capital  and  exploratory  expenditures,  excluding  equity  in
affiliates,  presented  in  "Management's  Discussion  and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations" are presented in the following table.




     The consolidated statement of cash flows excludes the following significant
noncash transactions:
     Chevron  contributed  $2,800  of net  noncash  assets to  Chevron  Phillips
Chemical  Company  LLC in  2000,  as  described  in Note 2.  The  investment  is
accounted for under the equity method.
     During 1999, the company acquired the  Rutherford-Moran Oil Corporation and
Petrolera  Argentina  San  Jorge  S.A.  Only  the net  cash  component  of these
transactions  is  included  as  "Capital  expenditures."  Consideration  for the
Rutherford-Moran  transaction  included  1.1  million  shares  of the  company's
treasury stock valued at $91.
     In 2000, $210 was reclassified  from "Deferred credits and other noncurrent
obligations" to "Accrued liabilities." The payment was remitted in January 2001.

Note 6. SUMMARIZED  FINANCIAL DATA - CHEVRON U.S.A.  INC.
At December 31, 2000,  Chevron  U.S.A.  Inc. was Chevron's  principal  operating
company,  consisting  primarily  of its  U.S.  integrated  petroleum  operations
(excluding most of the domestic pipeline operations).  Through the first half of
2000,  these  operations were conducted  primarily by three  divisions:  Chevron
U.S.A. Production Company, Chevron Products Company and Chevron Chemical Company
LLC.  As  described  in  Note 2,  Chevron  combined  most of its  petrochemicals
businesses with those of Phillips Petroleum Company on July 1, 2000.  Summarized
financial information for Chevron U.S.A. Inc. and its consolidated  subsidiaries
is presented below.







                                     FS-19


Note 7.  SUMMARIZED  FINANCIAL  DATA -  CHEVRON  TRANSPORT  CORPORATION  LIMITED
Effective July 1999, Chevron Transport Corporation, a Liberian corporation,  was
merged into Chevron Transport  Corporation Limited (CTC), a Bermuda corporation,
which  assumed  all  of  the  assets  and   liabilities  of  Chevron   Transport
Corporation. CTC is an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Chevron Corporation.
CTC is the  principal  operator of Chevron's  international  tanker fleet and is
engaged in the marine transportation of oil and refined petroleum products. Most
of CTC's  shipping  revenue is derived by providing  transportation  services to
other Chevron  companies.  Chevron  Corporation has guaranteed this subsidiary's
obligations in connection with certain debt securities  issued by a third party.
Summarized  financial  information for CTC and its consolidated  subsidiaries is
presented below.




This  information  was  derived  from the  financial  statements  prepared  on a
stand-alone basis in conformity with generally accepted  accounting  principles.
In 2000, CTC's parent made an additional $30 capital contribution. There were no
restrictions  on CTC's  ability to pay  dividends  or make loans or  advances at
December 31, 2000.

Note 8.  STOCKHOLDERS'  EQUITY
Retained  earnings at December  31,  2000 and 1999,  include  $2,301 and $2,048,
respectively,  for the  company's  share of  undistributed  earnings  of  equity
affiliates.
     In 1998,  the  company  declared  a dividend  distribution  of one Right to
purchase Chevron  Participating  Preferred Stock. The Rights become exercisable,
unless  redeemed  earlier  by the  company,  if a person or group  acquires,  or
obtains the right to acquire,  10 percent or more of the  outstanding  shares of
common  stock,  or  commences  a tender or exchange  offer that would  result in
acquiring 10 percent or more of the outstanding  shares of common stock,  either
event occurring  without the prior consent of the company.  The Chevron Series A
Participating  Preferred Stock that the holder of a Right is entitled to receive
and the  purchase  price  payable  upon  exercise of the Chevron  Right are both
subject to  adjustment.  The person or group who had acquired 10 percent or more
of the  outstanding  shares of common  stock  without  the prior  consent of the
company would not be entitled to this purchase.
     In October 2000, the Stockholder Rights agreement was amended to modify the
10 percent  thresholds  discussed above to 20 percent if the acquiring person is
Texaco Corporation.
     The Rights  will expire in  November  2008,  or they may be redeemed by the
company at 1 cent per Right prior to that date. The Rights do not have voting or
dividend rights and, until they become  exercisable,  have no dilutive effect on
the  earnings per share of the company.  Five  million  shares of the  company's
preferred stock have been designated Series A Participating  Preferred Stock and
reserved for issuance upon exercise of the Rights. No event during 2000 made the
Rights exercisable.
     At December 31, 2000,  30 million  shares of the company's  authorized  but
unissued  common  stock  were  reserved  for the  issuance  of shares  under the
Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP), which was approved by the stockholders in 1990.
To date,  all of the plan's  common  stock  requirements  have been met from the
company's Treasury Stock, and there have been no issuances of reserved shares.

Note 9. FINANCIAL AND DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS
Off-Balance-Sheet Risk
The company  utilizes a variety of derivative  instruments,  both  financial and
commodity-based,  as hedges to manage a small  portion of its  exposure to price
volatility  stemming  from  its  integrated  petroleum  activities.   Relatively
straightforward  and involving  little  complexity,  the derivative  instruments
consist mainly of futures  contracts traded on the New York Mercantile  Exchange
and the  International  Petroleum  Exchange  and of both crude and natural gas
swap contracts entered into principally with major financial institutions.
     The futures  contracts hedge  anticipated crude oil purchases and sales and
product  sales,  generally  forecasted  to occur within a 60- to 90-day  period.
Crude oil swaps are used to hedge  sales  forecasted  to occur  within  the next
three years. The terms of the swap contracts have maturities of the same period.
Natural gas swaps are used primarily to hedge firmly  committed  sales,  and the
terms of the swap  contracts  held at  year-end  2000 had an  average  remaining
maturity of 43 months.  Gains and losses on these derivative  instruments offset
and are recognized in income concurrently with the recognition of the underlying
physical transactions.
     The company enters into forward exchange contracts, generally with terms of
90 days or less,  as a hedge  against  some of its foreign  currency  exposures,
primarily anticipated purchase transactions forecasted to occur within 90 days.
     The company enters into interest rate swaps as part of its overall strategy
to manage the interest rate risk on its debt.  Under the terms of the swaps, net
cash settlements,  based on the difference  between fixed-rate and floating-rate
interest amounts  calculated by reference to agreed notional  principal amounts,
are made  semiannually  and are recorded monthly as "Interest and debt expense."
At December 31, 2000, there were no outstanding contracts.

                                     FS-20

Note 9. FINANCIAL AND DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS
- - Continued

Concentrations  of  Credit  Risk
The  company's  financial  instruments  that are exposed to  concentrations  of
credit risk consist  primarily of its cash equivalents,  marketable  securities,
derivative financial instruments and trade receivables.
     The  company's  short-term  investments  are  placed  with a wide  array of
financial  institutions  with high credit ratings.  This diversified  investment
policy limits the company's  exposure both to credit risk and to  concentrations
of credit risk. Similar standards of diversity and  creditworthiness are applied
to the company's counterparties in derivative instruments.
     The trade receivable balances, reflecting the company's diversified sources
of revenue, are dispersed among the company's broad customer base worldwide.  As
a consequence,  concentrations of credit risk are limited. The company routinely
assesses  the  financial  strength  of its  customers.  Letters  of  credit,  or
negotiated contracts when the financial strength of a customer is not considered
sufficient, are the principal securities obtained to support lines of credit.


Fair Value
Fair values are derived  either from quoted market prices or, if not  available,
the present value of the expected cash flows.  The fair values  reflect the cash
that  would  have been  received  or paid if the  instruments  were  settled  at
year-end.  The fair  values  of the  financial  and  derivative  instruments  at
December 31, 2000 and 1999, are described below.
     Long-term debt of $2,147 and $2,449 had estimated fair values of $2,167 and
$2,430.
     The notional  principal  amount of the interest  rate swap for 1999 totaled
$350, with an approximate  fair value of $11. The notional amounts of derivative
instruments do not represent  assets or liabilities of the company but,  rather,
are the basis for the settlements under the contract terms.
     The company holds cash equivalents and U.S. dollar marketable securities in
domestic and offshore  portfolios.  Eurodollar bonds,  floating-rate notes, time
deposits and commercial paper are the primary instruments held. Cash equivalents
and  marketable  securities  had fair  values of  $2,301  and  $1,762.  Of these
balances,   $1,567  and  $1,075  classified  as  cash  equivalents  had  average
maturities  under  90  days,  while  the  remainder,  classified  as  marketable
securities, had average maturities of approximately three years.
     For other  derivatives  the  contract or  notional  values were as follows:
Crude oil and products futures had net contract values of $10 and $143.  Forward
exchange  contracts had contract values of $154 and $123. Gas swap contracts are
based on notional  gas volumes of  approximately  39 and 44 billion  cubic feet.
Crude oil swap contracts are based on notional crude volumes of approximately 11
million barrels.  Fair values for all of these  derivatives were not material in
2000 and 1999.  Deferred gains and losses that were accrued on the  consolidated
balance sheet were not material.

Note 10. OPERATING  SEGMENTS AND GEOGRAPHIC DATA
Chevron  manages  its  exploration  and  production;   refining,  marketing  and
transportation;  and chemicals  businesses  separately.  The  company's  primary
country of  operation  is the  United  States,  its  country  of  domicile.  The
remainder of the company's operations is reported as International  (outside the
United States),  since its activities in no other country meet the  requirements
for separate disclosure.

Segment Earnings
The company evaluates the performance of its operating  segments on an after-tax
basis,  without  considering the effects of debt financing  interest  expense or
investment  interest  income,  both of which are managed by the corporation on a
worldwide basis. Corporate  administrative costs and assets are not allocated to
the operating segments;  instead,  operating segments are billed only for direct
corporate  services.  Nonbillable  costs  remain as corporate  center  expenses.
After-tax segment operating earnings are presented in the following table.




                                     FS-21

Note 10. OPERATING  SEGMENTS AND GEOGRAPHIC DATA - Continued

Segment  Assets
Segment  assets  do  not  include   intercompany   investments  or  intercompany
receivables.  "All  Other"  assets  consist  primarily  of  worldwide  cash  and
marketable  securities,  company real estate,  information systems,  Dynegy Inc.
investment and coal mining operations.  Segment assets at year-end 2000 and 1999
follow:



Segment Sales and Other  Operating  Revenues
Revenues for the exploration and production  segment are derived  primarily from
the  production  of  crude  oil and  natural  gas.  Revenues  for the  refining,
marketing and transportation segment are derived from the refining and marketing
of petroleum products such as gasoline,  jet fuel, gas oils, kerosene,  residual
fuel oils and other products derived from crude oil. This segment also generates
revenues from the  transportation and trading of crude oil and refined products.
Prior  to the  July  2000  formation  of the  Chevron  Phillips  joint  venture,
chemicals  segment  revenues  were  derived  from  the  manufacture  and sale of
petrochemicals,  plastic resins, and lube oil and fuel additives.  Subsequently,
only revenues from the  manufacture and sale of lube oil and fuel additives were
included.
     "All Other" activities include corporate  administrative  costs,  worldwide
cash management and debt financing activities, coal mining operations, insurance
operations, and real estate activities.
     Reportable operating segment sales and other operating revenues,  including
internal  transfers,  for the years  2000,  1999 and 1998 are  presented  in the
following  table.  Sales from the transfer of products  between  segments are at
estimated market prices.



                                     FS-22


Segment  Income Taxes
Segment income tax expenses for the years 2000, 1999 and 1998 are as follows:




Other  Segment  Information
Major  equity  affiliates  are aligned for segment  reporting  as follows:  P.T.
Caltex  Pacific  Indonesia  (CPI)  and  Tengizchevroil   (TCO)  -  International
exploration  and  production;   Caltex  Corporation  -  International  refining,
marketing  and  transportation;  Chevron  Phillips  Chemical  Company LLC - U.S.
Chemicals;  and  Dynegy  Inc.  - All Other.  Additional  information  for equity
affiliates is in Note 13. Information related to properties, plant and equipment
by segment is in Note 14.

Note 11.  LITIGATION
Chevron and five other oil companies  filed suit in 1995 contesting the validity
of a patent  granted to Unocal  Corporation  for  reformulated  gasoline,  which
Chevron sells in California  in certain  months of the year. In March 2000,  the
U.S.  Court of Appeals for the Federal  Circuit upheld a September 1998 District
Court  decision  that  Unocal's  patent was valid and  enforceable  and assessed
damages of 5.75 cents per gallon for gasoline  produced in  infringement  of the
patent.  In May 2000, the Federal  Circuit Court denied a petition for rehearing
with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal  Circuit filed by Chevron and the
five other defendants in this case. The defendant companies  petitioned the U.S.
Supreme  Court in August 2000 for the case to be heard.  In February  2001,  the
Supreme  Court  denied the  petition  to review the lower  court's  ruling.  The
defendants are pursuing other legal  alternatives  to have Unocal's patent ruled
invalid.
     If Unocal's patent ultimately is upheld, the company's  financial exposure
includes royalties,  plus interest, for production of gasoline that is proven to
have  infringed  the patent.  As a result of the March 2000 ruling,  the company
recorded  a  special  after-tax  charge  of $62.  The  majority  of this  charge
pertained to the estimated royalty on gasoline production in the early part of a
four-year  period  ending  December  31,  1999,   before  Chevron  modified  its
manufacturing  processes to minimize the  production of gasoline that  allegedly
infringed on Unocal's patented formulations.  Subsequently, the company has been
accruing in the normal  course of business any future  estimated  liability  for
potential  infringement  of the patent covered by the trial court's  ruling.  In
June 2000,  Chevron paid $22.7 to Unocal - $17.2 for the original court judgment
for  California  gasoline  produced in violation  of Unocal's  patent from March
through July 1996 and $5.5 of interest and fees. Unocal has obtained  additional
patents for  alternate  formulations  that could  affect a larger  share of U.S.
gasoline  production.  Chevron believes these additional patents are invalid and
unenforceable.  However,  if such patents are ultimately upheld, the competitive
and financial effects on the company's refining and marketing operations, while
presently indeterminable, could be material.

Note 12.  LEASE  COMMITMENTS
Certain  noncancelable  leases are classified as capital leases,  and the leased
assets are included as part of "Properties,  plant and equipment.  "Other leases
are  classified  as  operating  leases and are not  capitalized.  Details of the
capitalized leased assets are as follows:



     Rental  expenses  incurred for operating  leases during 2000, 1999 and 1998
were as follows:



     Contingent  rentals  are based on factors  other than the  passage of time,
principally  sales volumes at leased  service  stations.  Certain leases include
escalation  clauses for adjusting  rentals to reflect  changes in price indices,
renewal  options  ranging  from 1 to 25 years,  and/or  options to purchase  the
leased  property  during or at the end of the initial  lease period for the fair
market value at that time.
     At December 31, 2000, the future minimum lease payments under operating and
capital leases were as follows:


                                     FS-23




Note 13.  INVESTMENTS  AND ADVANCES
Chevron  owns 50  percent  each of  P.T.  Caltex  Pacific  Indonesia  (CPI),  an
exploration and production company operating in Indonesia;  Caltex  Corporation,
which, through its subsidiaries and affiliates,  conducts refining and marketing
activities in Asia,  Africa,  the Middle East,  Australia  and New Zealand;  and
American Overseas  Petroleum  Limited,  which,  through its subsidiary,  manages
certain of the  company's  operations in  Indonesia.  These  companies and their
subsidiaries and affiliates are collectively called the Caltex Group.
     The company received  dividends and distributions of $596, $268 and $254 in
2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively, including $244, $212 and $167 from the Caltex
group.
     Tengizchevroil  (TCO) is a joint  venture  formed  in 1993 to  develop  the
Tengiz and Korolev oil fields in  Kazakhstan  over a 40-year  period.  Chevron's
ownership  was 45 percent for the 1998 to 2000  period.  Upon  formation  of the
joint  venture,  the company  incurred  an  obligation  of $420,  payable to the
Republic of Kazakhstan  upon  attainment  of a dedicated  export system with the
capability of the greater of 260,000 barrels of oil per day or TCO's  production
capacity. In January 2001, the company purchased an additional 5 percent of TCO.
As a part of that transaction, the company paid $210 of the $420 obligation. The
$420 was also included in the carrying value of the original investment,  as the
company  believed,  beyond a reasonable  doubt,  that its full payment  would be
made.
     At year-end  2000,  Chevron  owned 26.5 percent of Dynegy Inc., a gatherer,
processor,  transporter and marketer of energy products in North America and the
United Kingdom.  These products include natural gas, natural gas liquids,  crude
oil and electricity.  Chevron's  percentage ownership in Dynegy was reduced from
about 28 percent  during 2000, as a result of a Dynegy 10  million-share  equity
offering (at about $53 per share),  in which  Chevron did not  participate.  The
market value of Chevron's share of Dynegy common stock at December 31, 2000, was
$4,784, based on closing market prices.
     Chevron owns 50 percent of Chevron Phillips Chemical Company LLC, formed in
July 2000 when the company  merged most of its  petrochemicals  businesses  with
those of Phillips Petroleum  Company.  This business is described in more detail
in Note 2.
     The company's  transactions with affiliated companies are summarized in the
table that follows. These are primarily for the purchase of Indonesian crude oil
from CPI,  the sale of crude oil and products to Caltex  Corporation's  refining
and marketing companies,  the sale of natural gas to Dynegy, and the purchase of
natural gas and natural gas liquids from Dynegy.




     Equity in earnings,  together with investments in and advances to companies
accounted for using the equity method, and other investments accounted for at or
below cost, are as follows:




     "Accounts and notes  receivable" in the consolidated  balance sheet include
$494 and $277 at December 31, 2000 and 1999,  respectively,  of amounts due from
affiliated  companies.  "Accounts  payable" include $139 and $53 at December 31,
2000 and 1999, respectively, of amounts due to affiliated companies.



                                     FS-24





NOTE 14. PROPERTIES, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT


                                     FS-25


Note 15.  TAXES
U.S.  federal income tax expense was reduced by $103, $89, $84 in 2000, 1999 and
1998, respectively, for low-income housing and other business tax credits.
     In 2000, before-tax income,  including related corporate and other charges,
for U.S.  operations was $3,924,  compared with $1,254 in 1999 and $728 in 1998.
For international operations, before-tax income was $5,346, $2,394 and $1,106 in
2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.



     The  company's  effective  income tax rate varied  from the U.S.  statutory
federal income tax rate because of the following:



     The increase in the 1999  effective tax rate from 1998 was due primarily to
increased  foreign taxes on higher foreign  earnings in 1999 compared with 1998.
Additional  increases in the effective tax rate in 1999 were from tax credits as
a smaller  proportion  of  before-tax  income  in 1999  than in 1998.  The other
effects  on the 1999  effective  tax rate  included  settlement  of  outstanding
issues,   utilization   of  additional   capital  loss  benefits  and  permanent
differences, slightly offset by the effect of lower taxable income received from
equity affiliates in 1999.
     The company  records its  deferred  taxes on a  tax-jurisdiction  basis and
classifies those net amounts as current or noncurrent based on the balance sheet
classification of the related assets or liabilities.
     The reported  deferred tax balances are composed of the following  deferred
tax liabilities (assets).



     Investments  and other for 2000 in the table  above  include  deferred  tax
liabilities  of $805 for  investments,  of  which  $482 is  associated  with the
company's  investment in Chevron Phillips Chemical Company. In 1999, most of the
deferred tax liabilities associated with the company's assets contributed to the
joint venture were reported as properties, plant and equipment.
     At  December  31,  2000 and 1999,  deferred  taxes were  classified  in the
consolidated balance sheet as follows:



     It  is  the  company's  policy  for  subsidiaries   included  in  the  U.S.
consolidated  tax  return to record  income  tax  expense  as though  they filed
separately,  with the parent  recording the adjustment to income tax expense for
the effects of consolidation.
     Undistributed  earnings  of  international  consolidated  subsidiaries  and
affiliates for which no deferred income tax provision has been made for possible
future  remittances   totaled   approximately   $5,244  at  December  31,  2000.
Substantially all of this amount represents  earnings  reinvested as part of the
company's ongoing business.  It is not practical to estimate the amount of taxes
that  might  be  payable  on  the  eventual  remit-



                                     FS-26


tance of such earnings.  On remittance,  certain  countries  impose  withholding
taxes that,  subject to certain  limitations,  are then available for use as tax
credits against a U.S. tax liability,  if any. The company estimates withholding
taxes of approximately $226 would be payable upon remittance of these earnings.



Note 16. SHORT-TERM DEBT
Redeemable long-term  obligations consist primarily of tax-exempt  variable-rate
put  bonds  that  are  included  as  current  liabilities  because  they  become
redeemable  at the  option of the  bondholders  during  the year  following  the
balance sheet date.
     The company  periodically  enters into  interest rate swaps on a portion of
its short-term debt. At December 31, 2000, there were no outstanding  contracts.
At December  31,  1999,  the company  had  swapped  notional  amounts of $350 of
floating  rate debt to fixed rates.  The effect of these swaps on the  company's
interest expense was not material.



Note 17. LONG-TERM DEBT
Chevron has three "shelf" registrations on file with the Securities and Exchange
Commission  that together would permit the issuance of $2,800 of debt securities
pursuant to Rule 415 of the Securities Act of 1933.
     At year-end  2000,  the company had $3,250 of committed  credit  facilities
with banks worldwide, $2,725 of which had termination dates beyond one year. The
facilities  support  the  company's  commercial  paper  borrowings.  Interest on
borrowings  under the terms of  specific  agreements  may be based on the London
Interbank  Offered Rate, the Reserve  Adjusted  Domestic  Certificate of Deposit
Rate or bank  prime  rate.  No  amounts  were  outstanding  under  these  credit
agreements during the year or at year-end.



     At December 31, 2000 and 1999, the company  classified $2,725 of short-term
debt as long-term.  Settlement of these  obligations  is not expected to require
the use of  working  capital  in 2001,  as the  company  has both the intent and
ability to refinance this debt on a long-term basis.
     Consolidated  long-term  debt  maturing  in each of the  five  years  after
December 31, 2000, is as follows: 2001-$267, 2002-$231,  2003-$182,  2004-$1,153
and 2005-$29.
     In  early  February  2001,  the  company  announced  a public  offering  to
repurchase  all of its 7.45 percent  guaranteed  notes  maturing in 2004. At the
expiration of the offering in mid-February, about $230 had been acquired.


                                     FS-27

Note  18.  OTHER  COMPREHENSIVE  INCOME
The  components  of changes in other  comprehensive  income and the  related tax
effects are shown below.




NOTE 19. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

Pension Plans
The company has defined  benefit  pension plans for most  employees and provides
for  certain  health  care and life  insurance  plans for active and  qualifying
retired  employees.  The  company's  policy is to fund the minimum  necessary to
satisfy  requirements  of the Employee  Retirement  Income  Security Act for the
company's pension plans.
     The  company's  annual  contributions  for medical and dental  benefits are
limited to the lesser of actual  medical  claims or a defined  fixed  per-capita
amount.   Life  insurance   benefits  are  paid  by  the  company,   and  annual
contributions  are  based on  actual  plan  experience.  Nonfunded  pension  and
postretirement  benefits are paid directly  when  incurred;  accordingly,  these
payments are not reflected as changes in Plan assets in the following table.
     The status of the company's pension plans and other postretirement  benefit
plans for 2000 and 1999 is as follows:






                                     FS-28


     For measurement  purposes,  separate health care cost-trend rates were used
for pre-age 65 and  post-age 65  retirees.  The 2001 annual rates of change were
assumed to be 7.2  percent  and 16.2  percent,  respectively,  before  gradually
converging to the average  ultimate rate of 5.0 percent in 2021 for both pre-age
65 and post-age  65. A  one-percentage-point  change in the assumed  health care
rates would have had the following effects:





The components of net periodic benefit cost for 2000, 1999 and 1998 were:



     The projected benefit  obligation,  accumulated benefit obligation and fair
value of plan assets for pension plans with accumulated  benefit  obligations in
excess of plan assets were $416,  $334 and $33,  respectively,  at December  31,
2000, and $428, $368 and $80, respectively, at December 31, 1999.

Profit Sharing/Savings Plan
Eligible  employees  of the  company and  certain of its  subsidiaries  who have
completed  one year of service  may  participate  in the Profit  Sharing/Savings
Plan.   Charges  to  expense  for  the  profit   sharing   part  of  the  Profit
Sharing/Savings Plan were $62, $61 and $60 in 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.
The company's  Savings Plus Plan  contributions  were funded with leveraged ESOP
shares.

Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP)
In December 1989, the company established a leveraged ESOP as part of the Profit
Sharing/Savings  Plan.  The ESOP Trust Fund borrowed  $1,000 and purchased  28.2
million previously  unissued shares of the company's common stock. In June 1999,
the ESOP  borrowed  $25 at 6.98  percent  interest,  using the  proceeds  to pay
interest due on the existing  ESOP debt. In July 1999,  the company's  leveraged
ESOP  issued  notes  of  $620 at an  average  interest  rate  of  7.42  percent,
guaranteed  by  Chevron  Corporation.  The debt  proceeds  were paid to  Chevron
Corporation  in exchange for  Chevron's  assumption of the existing 8.11 percent
ESOP  long-term  debt of $620.  The ESOP  provides a partial  prefunding  of the
company's  future  commitments to the Profit  Sharing/Savings  Plan,  which will
result in annual income tax savings for the company.
     As permitted by AICPA  Statement of Position 93-6,  "Employers'  Accounting
for  Employee  Stock  Ownership  Plans," the company has elected to continue its
practices,  which are based on Statement of Position 76-3, "Accounting Practices
for Certain  Employee Stock  Ownership  Plans" and  subsequent  consensus of the
Emerging  Issues  Task  Force  of  the  Financial  Accounting  Standards  Board.
Accordingly,  the debt of the ESOP is  recorded as debt,  and shares  pledged as
collateral are reported as deferred  compensation  in the  consolidated  balance
sheet and statement of stockholders'  equity.  The company reports  compensation
expense equal to the ESOP debt principal  repayments less dividends  received by
the ESOP.  Interest  incurred on the ESOP debt is recorded as interest  expense.
Dividends paid on ESOP shares are reflected as a reduction of retained earnings.
All ESOP shares are considered outstanding for earnings-per-share computations.
     The company recorded expense for the ESOP of $25, $59 and $58 in 2000, 1999
and 1998,  respectively,  including $47, $49 and $56 of interest expense related
to the ESOP debt.  All dividends paid on the shares held by the ESOP are used to
service the ESOP debt.  The dividends  used were $54, $33 and $57 in 2000,  1999
and 1998, respectively.
     The company made contributions to the ESOP of $64 and $60 in 1999 and 1998,
respectively,  to satisfy ESOP debt  service in excess of dividends  received by
the ESOP. No  contributions  were required in 2000. The ESOP shares were pledged
as  collateral  for its debt.  Shares are released  from a suspense  account and
allocated to the accounts of Plan participants, based on the debt service deemed
to be paid in the



                                     FS-29


year in proportion to the total of current year and remaining debt service.  The
(credit) charge to compensation  expense was $(22), $10 and $2 in 2000, 1999 and
1998,  respectively.  The ESOP shares as of December 31, 2000 and 1999,  were as
follows:




Management  Incentive Plans
The company has two incentive plans, the Management Incentive Plan (MIP) and the
Long-Term  Incentive  Plan  (LTIP)  for  officers  and  other  regular  salaried
employees of the company and its  subsidiaries who hold positions of significant
responsibility.  The MIP is an annual cash  incentive  plan that links awards to
performance  results  of the prior  year.  The cash  awards may be  deferred  by
conversion to stock units or other  investment fund  alternatives.  Awards under
the LTIP may take the form of, but are not limited to, stock options, restricted
stock,  stock units and  nonstock  grants.  Charges to expense for the  combined
management  incentive  plans,  excluding  expense related to LTIP stock options,
which is  discussed  in Note 20, were $49,  $41 and $28 in 2000,  1999 and 1998,
respectively.

Chevron  Success  Sharing
The company has a program that provides  eligible  employees with an annual cash
bonus if the company  achieves certain  financial and safety goals.  Until 2000,
the total  maximum  payout  under the  program  was 8 percent of the  employee's
annual salary.  Charges for the program were $146, $47 and $51 in 2000, 1999 and
1998,  respectively.  In 2000, the maximum payout under the program increased to
10 percent.

NOTE 20.  STOCK  OPTIONS
The company applies APB Opinion No. 25 and related interpretations in accounting
for stock options awarded under its  Broad-Based  Employee Stock Option Programs
and its Long-Term Incentive Plan, which are described below.
     Had compensation cost for the company's stock options been determined based
on the fair market  value at the grant dates of the awards  consistent  with the
methodology prescribed by FAS No. 123, the company's net income and earnings per
share for 2000, 1999 and 1998 would have been the pro forma amounts shown below.



     The effects of applying  FAS No. 123 in this pro forma  disclosure  are not
indicative of future amounts. FAS No. 123 does not apply to awards granted prior
to 1995. In addition,  certain  options vest over several  years,  and awards in
future years, whose terms and conditions may vary, are anticipated.

Broad-Based  Employee Stock Options
In 1996, the company granted to all eligible  employees an option for 150 shares
of stock or equivalents at an exercise price of $51.875 per share.  In addition,
a  portion  of the  awards  granted  under  the LTIP had  terms  similar  to the
broad-based  employee  stock  options.  The  options  vested  in June  1997 when
Chevron's share price closed above $75.00 for three consecutive days.
     Options for 7,204,800 shares,  including  similar-termed  LTIP awards, were
granted for this program in 1996.  Outstanding  option shares were  2,213,450 at
December 31, 1997. In 1998, exercises of 1,361,000 and forfeitures of 10,800 had
reduced the  outstanding  option  shares to 841,650 at year-end  1998.  In 1999,
exercises of 740,725,  forfeitures  of 61,850 and  expirations of 39,075 reduced
the outstanding option shares to zero at March 31, 1999, the date of expiration.
Under APB Opinion No. 25, the company  recorded gains of $2 for these options in
1999. No gains or expenses for this program were recorded in 2000 and 1998.
     The fair market value of each option share on the date
of  grant  under  FAS  No.  123  was   estimated   at  $5.66  using  a  binomial
option-pricing model with the following assumptions:  risk-free interest rate of
5.1 percent,  dividend yield of 4.2 percent,  expected life of three years and a
volatility of 20.9 percent.
     In 1998, the company  announced another  broad-based  Employee Stock Option
Program that granted to all eligible employees an option that varied from 100 to
300 shares of stock or  equivalents,  dependent on the employee's  salary or job
grade.  These  options  vested  after two years in  February  2000.  Options for
4,820,800  shares  were  awarded at an  exercise  price of  $76.3125  per share.
Forfeitures of options for 854,550 shares reduced the outstanding  option shares
to 3,966,250 at December 31, 1999. In 2000, exercises of 611,201 and forfeitures
of 290,682 had reduced the outstanding option balance to 3,064,367 at the end of
the year.  The options expire  February 11, 2008.  Under APB Opinion No. 25, the
company recorded expenses of $(2), $4 and $2 for these options in 2000, 1999 and
1998, respectively.
     The fair value of each option  share on the date of grant under FAS No. 123
was estimated at $19.08 using the average  results of  Black-Scholes  models for
the  preceding 10 years.  The 10-year  averages of each  assumption  used by the
Black-Scholes  models were:  risk-free  interest  rate of 7.0 percent,  dividend
yield of 4.2  percent,  expected  life of seven years and a  volatility  of 24.7
percent.

                                     FS-30

NOTE 20.  STOCK  OPTIONS - Continued

Long-Term  Incentive  Plan
Stock options  granted  under the LTIP are generally  awarded at market price on
the date of grant and are  exercisable  not earlier  than one year and not later
than 10 years from the date of grant.  However,  a portion  of the LTIP  options
granted in 1996 had terms similar to the broad-based employee stock options. The
maximum  number of shares of common  stock  that may be  granted  each year is 1
percent of the total outstanding  shares of common stock as of January 1 of such
year.
     The weighted-average fair market value of options granted in 2000, 1999 and
1998 was  $22.34,  $20.40 and $21.10 per share,  respectively.  The fair  market
value of each option on the date of grant was estimated using the  Black-Scholes
option-pricing  model with the following  assumptions  for 2000,  1999 and 1998,
respectively:  risk-free  interest  rate of 5.8, 5.5 and 4.5  percent;  dividend
yield of 3.0, 3.0 and 3.1 percent; volatility of 25.6, 20.1 and 28.6 percent and
expected life of seven years in all years.
     As of December  31, 2000,  10,311,802  shares were under option at exercise
prices ranging from $31.9375 to $99.75 per share. The following table summarizes
information  about stock options  outstanding  under the LTIP,  excluding awards
granted  with terms  similar  to the  broad-based  employee  stock  options,  at
December 31, 2000.



     A summary of the status of stock options  awarded under the company's LTIP,
excluding  awards granted with terms similar to the  broad-based  employee stock
options, for 2000, 1999 and 1998 follows.



NOTE 21.  OTHER  CONTINGENCIES  AND  COMMITMENTS
The U.S.  federal  income tax  liabilities  have been settled  through 1993. The
company's California franchise tax liabilities have been settled through 1991.
     Settlement  of open tax  years,  as well as tax  issues in other  countries
where the company  conducts its  businesses,  is not expected to have a material
effect on the consolidated  financial  position or liquidity of the company and,
in the opinion of  management,  adequate  provision has been made for income and
franchise   taxes  for  all  years  under   examination  or  subject  to  future
examination.
     At  December  31,  2000,  the company  and its  subsidiaries,  as direct or
indirect guarantors,  had contingent  liabilities of $25 for notes of affiliated
companies and $179 for notes of others.
     The  company  and its  subsidiaries  have  certain  contingent  liabilities
relating  to  long-term  unconditional  purchase  obligations  and  commitments,
throughput  agreements  and  take-or-pay  agreements,  some of which  relate  to
suppliers'  financing  arrangements.  The aggregate amounts of required payments
under  these  various  commitments  are:  2001  -  $375;  2002-$354;  2003-$333;
2004-$310;  2005-$252; 2006 and after-$946.  Total payments under the agreements
were $281 in 2000, $258 in 1999 and $201 in 1998.


                                     FS-31

Note 21. OTHER CONTINGENCIES AND COMMITMENTS - Continued

     The company is subject to loss contingencies pursuant to environmental laws
and  regulations  that in the future may  require  the company to take action to
correct or  ameliorate  the  effects on the  environment  of prior  disposal  or
release of chemical or petroleum  substances,  including MTBE, by the company or
other parties. Such contingencies may exist for various sites including, but not
limited  to:  Superfund  sites and  refineries,  oil fields,  service  stations,
terminals and land development  areas,  whether  operating,  closed or sold. The
amount of such future cost is indeterminable  due to such factors as the unknown
magnitude  of  possible  contamination,  the  unknown  timing  and extent of the
corrective  actions that may be required,  the  determination  of the  company's
liability in proportion to other  responsible  parties,  and the extent to which
such costs are  recoverable  from third parties.  While the company has provided
for known environmental  obligations that are probable and reasonably estimable,
the amount of future  costs may be  material  to results  of  operations  in the
period in which they are recognized.  The company does not expect these costs to
have a material  effect on its  consolidated  financial  position or  liquidity.
Also,  the company does not believe its  obligations  to make such  expenditures
have had, or will have,  any  significant  impact on the  company's  competitive
position  relative to other  domestic  or  international  petroleum  or chemical
concerns.
     The  company  believes  it has no  material  market or credit  risks to its
operations,  financial  position or liquidity as a result of its commodities and
other derivatives  activities.  However, the results of operations and financial
position  of  certain  equity  affiliates  may be  affected  by  their  business
activities involving the use of derivative instruments.
     The  company's  operations,   particularly  oil  and  gas  exploration  and
production,  can be affected  by changing  economic,  regulatory  and  political
environments in the various countries,  including the United States, in which it
operates.  In certain  locations,  host governments  have imposed  restrictions,
controls and taxes,  and in others,  political  conditions have existed that may
threaten the safety of employees and the company's  continued  presence in those
countries.  Internal unrest or strained  relations between a host government and
the company or other  governments  may affect the  company's  operations.  Those
developments have, at times, significantly affected the company's operations and
related  results and are carefully  considered by management when evaluating the
level of current and future activity in such countries.
     Also for oil and gas producing operations, ownership agreements may provide
for  periodic  reassessments  of  equity  interests  in  estimated  oil  and gas
reserves.  These  activities,  individually or together,  may result in gains or
losses that could be material to earnings in any given period.
     Areas in which the company has  significant  operations  include the United
States, Canada,  Australia,  the United Kingdom, Norway, Congo, Angola, Nigeria,
Chad, Equatorial Guinea,  Democratic Republic of Congo, Papua New Guinea, China,
Venezuela,  Thailand, Argentina and Brazil. The company's Caltex affiliates have
significant   operations  in  Indonesia,   Korea,   Australia,   Thailand,   the
Philippines,  Singapore and South Africa. The company's Tengizchevroil affiliate
operates in  Kazakhstan.  The company's  Dynegy  affiliate has operations in the
United States, Canada, the United Kingdom and other European countries.

NOTE 22. EARNINGS PER SHARE (EPS)
Basic EPS includes  the effects of  deferrals  of salary and other  compensation
awards  that are  invested  in  Chevron  stock  units by  certain  officers  and
employees of the company. Diluted EPS includes the effects of these deferrals as
well as the dilutive effects of outstanding stock options awarded under the LTIP
and  Broad-Based  Employee Stock Option Program (see Note 20, "Stock  Options").
The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted EPS.



                                     FS-32


          SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION ON OIL AND GAS PRODUCING ACTIVITIES
                                   Unaudited

In  accordance  with  Statement  of  Financial   Accounting  Standards  No.  69,
"Disclosures About Oil and Gas Producing  Activities" (FAS No. 69), this section
provides  supplemental  information  on oil and gas  exploration  and  producing
activities of the company in six separate  tables.  Tables I through III provide
historical  cost  information  pertaining  to  costs  incurred  in  exploration,
property  acquisitions  and  development;  capitalized  costs;  and  results  of
operations. Tables IV through VI present information on the company's estimated
net proved  reserve  quantities,  standardized  measure of estimated  discounted
future  net cash flows  related to proved  reserves,  and  changes in  estimated
discounted future net cash flows. The Africa geographic area includes activities
principally in Nigeria,  Angola,  Chad, Congo and Democratic  Republic of Congo.
The "Other" geographic category includes activities in Australia, Argentina, the
United Kingdom North Sea, Canada, Papua New Guinea,  Venezuela,  Brazil,  China,
Thailand  and other  countries.  Amounts  shown  for  affiliated  companies  are
Chevron's 50 percent equity share in P.T.  Caltex Pacific  Indonesia  (CPI), an
exploration and production  company  operating in Indonesia,  and its 45 percent
equity share of Tengizchevroil (TCO), an exploration and production  partnership
operating in the Republic of Kazakhstan.



                                     FS-33






TABLE III - RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR OIL AND GAS PRODUCING ACTIVITIES(1)

The company's  results of operations  from oil and gas producing  activities for
the years 2000, 1999 and 1998 are shown in the following table.
     Net income from  exploration and production  activities as reported on page
FS-7 reflects  income taxes computed on an effective  rate basis.  In accordance
with FAS No. 69,  income  taxes in Table III are based on  statutory  tax rates,
reflecting allowable deductions and tax credits. Interest income and expense are
excluded from the results  reported in Table III and from the net income amounts
on page FS-7.


                                     FS-34






                                     FS-35




TABLE IV - RESERVE QUANTITY INFORMATION
The company's  estimated net proved underground oil and gas reserves and changes
thereto  for the years  2000,  1999 and 1998 are shown in the  following  table.
Proved  reserves  are  estimated  by  company  asset  teams  composed  of  earth
scientists and reservoir engineers.  These proved reserve estimates are reviewed
annually  by the  corporation's  Reserves  Advisory  Committee  to  ensure  that
rigorous professional  standards and the reserves definitions  prescribed by the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission are consistently  applied throughout the
company.
     Proved reserves are the estimated  quantities that geologic and engineering
data  demonstrate  with  reasonable  certainty to be recoverable in future years
from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating  conditions.  Due to
the inherent  uncertainties and the limited nature of reservoir data,  estimates
of underground reserves are subject to change as additional  information becomes
available.
     Proved reserves do not include additional quantities recoverable beyond the
term of the lease or concession  agreement or that may result from extensions of
currently proved areas or from applying secondary or tertiary recovery processes
not yet tested and determined to be economic.
     Proved  developed  reserves  are the  quantities  expected to be  recovered
through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods.
     "Net" reserves exclude  royalties and interests owned by others and reflect
contractual  arrangements  and royalty  obligations in effect at the time of the
estimate.
     Chevron operates under a risked service agreement Venezuela's Block LL-652,
located in the northeast  section of Lake  Maracaibo.  Chevron is accounting for
LL-652 as an oil and gas activity  and, at December  31,  2000,  had recorded 57
million barrels of proved crude oil reserves.
     No reserve  quantities have been recorded for the company's  other service
agreement in Venezuela, the Boscan Field.

                                     FS-36




TABLE V -  STANDARDIZED  MEASURE OF DISCOUNTED  FUTURE NET CASH FLOWS RELATED TO
PROVED OIL AND GAS RESERVES
The  standardized  measure of discounted  future net cash flows,  related to the
above  proved  oil and gas  reserves,  is  calculated  in  accordance  with  the
requirements  of FAS No. 69.  Estimated  future cash inflows from production are
computed by applying  year-end prices for oil and gas to year-end  quantities of
estimated  net  proved  reserves.  Future  price  changes  are  limited to those
provided by contractual  arrangements  in existence at the end of each reporting
year.  Future  development  and  production  costs  are those  estimated  future
expenditures necessary to develop and produce year-end estimated proved reserves
based on year-end  cost  indices,  assuming  continuation  of year-end  economic
conditions. Estimated future income taxes are calculated by applying appropriate
year-end statutory tax rates.  These rates reflect allowable  deductions and tax
credits and are applied to estimated future pretax net cash flows,  less the tax
basis of related assets.  Discounted  future net cash flows are calculated using
10 percent  midperiod  discount  factors.  Discounting  requires a  year-by-year
estimate of when future  expenditures will be incurred and when reserves will be
produced.
     The information  provided does not represent  management's  estimate of the
company's  expected  future cash flows or value of proved oil and gas  reserves.
Estimates of proved reserve quantities are imprecise and change over time as new
information becomes available.  Moreover,  probable and possible reserves, which
may  become  proved in the  future,  are  excluded  from the  calculations.  The
arbitrary valuation  prescribed under FAS No. 69 requires  assumptions as to the
timing and amount of future  development and production  costs. The calculations
are  made as of  December  31 each  year and  should  not be  relied  upon as an
indication  of the  company's  future  cash  flows  or  value of its oil and gas
reserves.



                                     FS-37





The changes in present values between years,  which can be significant,  reflect
changes in estimated  proved reserve  quantities and prices and assumptions used
in forecasting production volumes and costs. Changes in the timing of production
are included with "Revisions of previous quantity estimates."

                                     FS-38




                                     FS-39




















                            CALTEX GROUP OF COMPANIES
                          COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


                                December 31, 2000




















                                      C-1


                            CALTEX GROUP OF COMPANIES
                          COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                DECEMBER 31, 2000


                                      INDEX





                                                                 Page
                                                                ------

General Information                                         C-3 to C-4

Independent Auditors' Report                                       C-5

Combined Statement of Income                                       C-6

Combined Statement of Comprehensive Income                         C-6

Combined Balance Sheet                                             C-7

Combined Statement of Stockholders' Equity                         C-8

Combined Statement of Cash Flows                                   C-9

Notes to Combined Financial Statements                    C-10 to C-20




Note:  Financial  statement  schedules are omitted as permitted by Rule 4.03 and
Rule 5.04 of Regulation S-X.

                                      C-2



                            CALTEX GROUP OF COMPANIES
                               GENERAL INFORMATION


      The Caltex Group of Companies (Group) is jointly owned 50% each by Chevron
Corporation and Texaco Inc. (collectively,  the Stockholders) and was created in
1936 by its two owners to explore  for,  produce,  transport,  refine and market
crude oil and  petroleum  products.  The  Group is  comprised  of the  following
companies:

o     Caltex Corporation,  a company incorporated in Delaware with its corporate
      headquarters  in  Singapore,  that,  through  its  many  subsidiaries  and
      affiliates,  conducts  refining,  transporting,   trading,  and  marketing
      activities in the Eastern Hemisphere;

o     P. T. Caltex Pacific Indonesia, an exploration and production company
      incorporated and operating in Indonesia; and,

o     American Overseas Petroleum Limited, a company incorporated in
      the Bahamas.

A brief  description of each company's  operations and other items follows.  All
reported amounts are in U.S. dollars.

Caltex Corporation (Caltex)
- ---------------------------

      Through its subsidiaries and affiliates,  Caltex operates in approximately
57 countries,  principally  in Africa,  Asia,  the Middle East,  New Zealand and
Australia.  These  geographic  areas  comprise  a  broad  diversity  of  mature,
developing,  and emerging  markets.  At the end of 2000,  it had total assets of
$7.7 billion,  sales of 1.4 million barrels of crude oil and petroleum  products
per day, and total revenues of $18.4 billion for the year. Caltex is involved in
all  aspects of the  downstream  business:  marketing,  refining,  distribution,
transportation,  storage, supply and trading operations; the corporation is also
active in the petrochemical business through its affiliate in Korea. At year-end
2000, Caltex had more than 7,200 employees.

      The majority of refining and certain  marketing  operations  are conducted
through joint ventures. Caltex has equity interests in 10 refineries with equity
refining capacity of approximately 846,000 barrels per day. Additionally, it has
interests in two  lubricant  refineries,  17 lubricant  blending  plants,  and a
network of ocean terminals and depots. Caltex also has an interest in a fleet of
vessels, and owns or has equity interests in numerous pipelines. Caltex conducts
international  crude oil and petroleum product logistics and trading  operations
from a subsidiary in Singapore.


P. T. Caltex Pacific Indonesia (CPI)
- ------------------------------------

      CPI holds a Production  Sharing  Contract (PSC) in Central Sumatra through
the year 2021.  CPI also acts as operator  in Sumatra for eight other  petroleum
contract areas, with 33 fields, which are jointly held by Chevron and Texaco. At
the end of 2000,  CPI had total assets of $2.5 billion,  which  generated  total
revenues  of $2.0  billion  for the year.  Exploration  is pursued  over an area
comprising 18.3 million acres with production established in the giant Minas and
Duri fields, along with smaller fields. Gross production from fields operated by
CPI for 2000 was over 707,000 barrels of crude oil per day. CPI entitlements are
sold to its  Stockholders,  who use them in their  systems or sell them to third
parties. At year-end 2000, CPI had approximately 5,800 employees, all located in
Indonesia.


American Overseas Petroleum Limited (AOPL)
- ------------------------------------------

      AOPL and its subsidiary,  Amoseas Indonesia, Inc, provide services for CPI
and manage certain  geothermal  steam operations and geothermal power generation
projects in Indonesia in which  Chevron and Texaco have  interests.  At year-end
2000,  AOPL had  approximately  186  employees,  of which 9% were located in the
United States.

                                      C-3


                            CALTEX GROUP OF COMPANIES
                               GENERAL INFORMATION


Supplemental Market Risk Disclosures
- ------------------------------------

      The Group uses various  derivative  financial  instruments for hedging and
trading  purposes.  These instruments  principally  include interest rate and/or
currency swap  contracts,  forward and option  contracts to buy and sell foreign
currencies,   and  commodity  futures,   options,  swaps  and  other  derivative
instruments.  Hedged market risk exposures  include certain  portions of assets,
liabilities,  future commitments and anticipated  sales.  Positions are adjusted
for changes in the exposures being hedged. Since the Group hedges only a portion
of its market risk  exposures,  exposure  remains on the unhedged  portion.  The
Notes to the Combined  Financial  Statements provide additional data relating to
derivatives and applicable accounting policies.


Debt and  debt-related  derivatives - The Group is exposed to interest rate risk
on its short-term and long-term debt with variable interest rates (approximately
$1.9 billion and $2.2  billion,  before the effects of related net interest rate
swaps  of $0.3  billion  and $0.4  billion,  at  December  31,  2000  and  1999,
respectively).  The Group seeks to balance  the  benefit of lower cost  variable
rate debt, having inherent  increased risk, with more expensive,  but lower risk
fixed rate debt.  This is  accomplished  through  adjusting the mix of fixed and
variable  rate debt,  as well as the use of  derivative  financial  instruments,
principally interest rate swaps.

      Based on the overall  interest  rate  exposure  on variable  rate debt and
interest rate swaps at December 31, 2000 and 1999, a hypothetical  change in the
interest  rates of 2% would change net income by  approximately  $23 million and
$25 million in 2000 and 1999, respectively.


Crude  oil and  petroleum  product  derivatives  - The  Group  uses  established
petroleum  futures  exchanges,   as  well  as  "over-the-counter"   instruments,
including  futures,  options,  swaps, and other  derivative  products to hedge a
portion of the market risks associated with its crude oil and petroleum  product
purchases and sales. The Group also enters into derivative  contracts as part of
its crude oil and petroleum product trading activities.

      The  Group  had  net  open  petroleum  derivative  purchase  contracts  of
approximately  $146  million  and $127  million at  December  31, 2000 and 1999,
respectively. As a sensitivity for these contracts, a hypothetical 10% change in
crude oil and petroleum  product prices would change net income by approximately
$10 million and $9 million in 2000 and 1999, respectively.

Currency-related derivatives - The Group is exposed to foreign currency exchange
risk in the countries in which it operates.  To hedge against adverse changes in
foreign  currency  exchange rates against the U.S.  dollar,  the Group sometimes
enters into forward  exchange and options  contracts.  Depending on the exposure
being hedged,  the Group either purchases or sells selected foreign  currencies.
The Group had net foreign  currency  purchase  contracts of  approximately  $191
million and $279 million at December 31, 2000 and 1999,  respectively,  to hedge
certain  specific  transactions  or net  exposures  including  foreign  currency
denominated  debt. A hypothetical  10% change in exchange rates against the U.S.
dollar  would not  result in a net  material  change  in the  Group's  operating
results or cash flows from the derivatives and their related  underlying  hedged
positions in 2000 or 1999.


New Accounting Standard
- -----------------------

     Statement  of  Financial  Accounting  Standards  No.  133 (SFAS  No.  133),
"Accounting for Derivative  Instruments and Hedging  Activities",  as amended by
SFAS No. 137 and No.  138,  will be adopted  by the Group  beginning  January 1,
2001.  SFAS No. 133/138 require  companies to record  derivatives on the balance
sheet as assets or  liabilities  and measure  those  derivatives  at fair value.
Changes in the fair  values of  derivatives  are to be  recorded  each period in
current  earnings  or  other  comprehensive  income,   depending  on  whether  a
derivative is designated as part of a hedge transaction and the type of exposure
being hedged.

      Based on its current level of activity with  derivative  instruments,  the
Group does not  expect  the  adoption  of SFAS No.  133/138 to have  significant
impact on  results  of  operations,  other  comprehensive  income  or  financial
position.

                                      C-4


                          Independent Auditors' Report
                          ----------------------------


To the Stockholders
The Caltex Group of Companies:

      We have audited the  accompanying  combined  balance  sheets of the Caltex
Group of Companies as of December  31, 2000 and 1999,  and the related  combined
statements of income, comprehensive income, stockholders' equity, and cash flows
for each of the years in the  three-year  period ended  December  31, 2000,  all
expressed  in  United  States  of  America  dollars.  These  combined  financial
statements are the responsibility of the Group's management.  Our responsibility
is to express an opinion on these  combined  financial  statements  based on our
audits.

      We conducted our audits in accordance  with auditing  standards  generally
accepted in the United States of America.  Those standards  require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a
test basis,  evidence  supporting  the amounts and  disclosures in the financial
statements.  An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant  estimates  made by  management,  as well as evaluating  the overall
financial  statement  presentation.   We  believe  that  our  audits  provide  a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

      In our  opinion,  the  combined  financial  statements  referred  to above
present fairly, in all material  respects,  the financial position of the Caltex
Group of  Companies  as of  December  31,  2000 and 1999 and the  results of its
operations  and its cash  flows for each of the years in the  three-year  period
ended  December 31, 2000, in conformity  with  accounting  principles  generally
accepted in the United States of America.

      As  discussed in Note 2 to the combined  financial  statements,  the Group
changed its method of accounting  for start-up  costs in 1998 to comply with the
provisions  of the AICPA's  Statement of Position 98-5 - "Reporting on the Costs
of Start-up Activities".



                                    /s/ KPMG
                                       KPMG

Singapore
February 8, 2001

                                      C-5







                                      C-6






                                      C-7





                                      C-8





                                      C-9



                            CALTEX GROUP OF COMPANIES
                     NOTES TO COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Note 1  -  Summary of significant accounting policies

Principles of combination The combined financial  statements of the Caltex Group
of  Companies   (Group)   include  the  accounts  of  Caltex   Corporation   and
subsidiaries, American Overseas Petroleum Limited and subsidiary, and P.T.Caltex
Pacific Indonesia.  Intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated.
Subsidiaries include companies owned directly or indirectly more than 50% except
cases in which  control  does not rest with the Group.  The  Group's  accounting
policies are in accordance with U.S. generally accepted  accounting  principles,
and the Group's reporting currency is the U.S. dollar.

Translation of foreign currencies The U.S. dollar is the functional currency for
all principal subsidiary and affiliate operations.

Estimates  The  preparation  of financial  statements  in  conformity  with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles requires estimates and assumptions that
affect the  reported  amounts  of assets  and  liabilities,  the  disclosure  of
contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial  statements,  and
the  reported  amounts of revenues  and expenses  during the  reporting  period.
Actual results may differ from those estimates.

Short-term investments All highly liquid investments are classified as available
for sale.  Those  with a maturity  of three  months or less when  purchased  are
considered as "Cash equivalents" and those with longer maturities are classified
as "Marketable securities".

Inventories  Inventories  are  valued  at the lower of cost or  current  market,
except as noted  below.  Crude oil and  petroleum  product  inventory  costs are
primarily  determined using the last-in,  first-out  (LIFO) method,  and include
applicable  acquisition and refining costs, duties,  import taxes, freight, etc.
Materials  and  supplies  are stated at average  cost.  Certain  trading-related
inventory, which is highly transitory in nature, is marked-to-market.

Investments  and advances  Investments  in  affiliates in which the Group has an
ownership  interest of 20% to 50% or  majority-owned  investments  where control
does not rest with the  Group,  are  accounted  for by the  equity  method.  The
Group's  share of earnings or losses of these  companies  is included in current
results,  and the recorded  investments  reflect the  underlying  equity in each
company.  Investments in other  affiliates are carried at cost and dividends are
reported as income.

Property,   plant  and  equipment  Exploration  and  production  activities  are
accounted for under the successful  efforts  method.  All costs for  development
wells, related plant and equipment,  and proved mineral interests in oil and gas
properties are capitalized.  Costs of exploratory wells are capitalized  pending
determination  of whether the wells found proved  reserves.  Costs of wells that
are assigned proved reserves remain capitalized.  Costs are also capitalized for
wells that find  commercially  producible  reserves that cannot be classified as
proved, pending one or more of the following:  (1) decisions on additional major
capital expenditures,  (2) the results of additional  exploratory wells that are
under way or firmly  planned,  and (3) securing final  regulatory  approvals for
development.  Otherwise,  well costs are expensed if a  determination  cannot be
made within one year  following  completion  of  drilling  as to whether  proved
reserves were found. All other exploratory wells and costs are expensed.

      Long-lived assets, including proved developed oil and gas properties,  are
assessed  for possible  impairment  by comparing  their  carrying  values to the
undiscounted-future-net-before-tax  cash flows. Impaired assets are written down
to their fair values,  generally their  discounted  cash flows.  Impaired assets
held for sale are recorded at their fair value less cost to sell. For proved oil
and gas properties,  the reviews are performed on a concession basis. Impairment
amounts are recorded as incremental  depreciation expense in the period in which
the event occurs.

      Depreciation,  depletion and amortization  expenses for capitalized  costs
relating to producing  properties,  including intangible  development costs, are
determined  using  the  unit-of-production  method by  individual  fields as the
proved developed reserves are produced. Depletion expenses for capitalized costs
of proved mineral interests are recognized using the  unit-of-production  method
by  individual  fields as the related  proved  reserves are  produced.  Periodic
valuation  provisions for impairment of  capitalized  costs of unproved  mineral
interests  are  expensed.  All  other  assets  are  depreciated  by  class  on a
straight-line  basis using rates  based upon the  estimated  useful life of each
class.

                                      C-10




                            CALTEX GROUP OF COMPANIES
                     NOTES TO COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Note 1  -  Summary of significant accounting policies - continued

      Maintenance  and repairs  necessary  to maintain  facilities  in operating
condition  are charged to income as incurred.  Additions and  improvements  that
materially  extend the life of assets are capitalized.  Upon disposal of assets,
any net gain or loss is included in income.

Deferred   credits   Deferred   credits   primarily   represent  the  Indonesian
government's interest in specific property,  plant and equipment balances. Under
the Production  Sharing  Contract  (PSC),  the Indonesian  government  retains a
majority  equity share of current  production  profits.  Intangible  development
costs (IDC) are capitalized for U.S.  generally accepted  accounting  principles
under the successful  efforts method, but are treated as period expenses for PSC
reporting.  Other capitalized amounts are depreciated at an accelerated rate for
PSC reporting.  The deferred credit balances recognize the government's share of
IDC and  other  reported  capital  costs  that  over the life of the PSC will be
included  in income as  depreciation,  depletion  and  amortization  and will be
applied against future production related profits.

Derivative  financial  instruments  and energy trading  contracts The Group uses
various derivative financial instruments for hedging purposes. These instruments
include  interest  rate  and/or  currency  swap  contracts,  forward and options
contracts to buy and sell foreign  currencies,  and commodity futures,  options,
swaps and other  derivative  instruments.  Hedged market risk exposures  include
certain  portions of assets,  liabilities,  future  commitments  and anticipated
sales. Prior realized gains and losses on hedges of existing non-monetary assets
are included in the carrying value of those assets.  Gains and losses related to
qualifying  hedges of firm commitments or anticipated  transactions are deferred
and recognized in income when the underlying hedged transaction is recognized in
income. If the derivative instrument ceases to be a hedge, the related gains and
losses  are  recognized  currently  in income.  Gains and  losses on  derivative
instruments that do not qualify as hedges are recognized currently in income.

      The Group also enters into energy contracts as a part of its crude oil and
petroleum product trading  activities.  Trading contracts are recorded at market
value and related  gains and losses are recorded on a net basis in cost of sales
and  operating  expenses as the market values  change.  The net gains and losses
from trading  contracts  were not material to the Group's  results of operations
for 2000, 1999 and 1998.

Accounting  for  contingencies  Certain  conditions  may  exist  as of the  date
financial  statements  are issued  which may result in a loss to the Group,  but
which will only be  resolved  when one or more  future  events  occur or fail to
occur. Assessing contingencies  necessarily involves an exercise of judgment. In
assessing  loss  contingencies  related to legal  proceedings  that are  pending
against the Group or unasserted claims that may result in such proceedings,  the
Group  evaluates the  perceived  merits of any legal  proceedings  or unasserted
claims  as well as the  perceived  merits  of the  amount  of  relief  sought or
expected to be sought therein.

      If the  assessment of a contingency  indicates  that it is probable that a
material  liability  had  been  incurred  and  the  amount  of the  loss  can be
estimated,  then the  estimated  liability  is accrued in the Group's  financial
statements. If the assessment indicates that a potentially material liability is
not  probable,  but  is  reasonably  possible,  or is  probable  but  cannot  be
estimated,  then  the  nature  of the  contingent  liability,  together  with an
estimate of the range of possible loss, if determinable, is disclosed.

      Loss  contingencies  considered  remote are generally not disclosed unless
they involve  guarantees,  in which case the nature and amount of the  guarantee
would be  disclosed.  However,  in some  instances  in which  disclosure  is not
otherwise required,  the Group may disclose contingent liabilities of an unusual
nature which,  in the judgment of management  and its legal  counsel,  may be of
interest to Stockholders or others.

Environmental matters The Group's environmental  policies encompass the existing
laws in each country in which the Group  operates,  and the Group's own internal
standards.  Expenditures  that create  future  benefits or  contribute to future
revenue  generation are capitalized.  Future remediation costs are accrued based
on estimates of known  environmental  exposure even if uncertainties exist about
the  ultimate  cost of the  remediation.  Such  accruals  are  based on the best
available  undiscounted  estimates using data primarily developed by third party
experts.  Costs of  environmental  compliance  for past and ongoing  operations,
including maintenance and monitoring, are expensed as incurred.  Recoveries from
third parties are recorded as assets when realizable.



                                      C-11


 .
                            CALTEX GROUP OF COMPANIES
                     NOTES TO COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Note 1  - Summary of significant accounting policies - continued

Revenue recognition In general, revenue is recognized for crude oil, natural gas
and refined product sales when title passes as specified in the sales contract.

Reclassifications  Certain  reclassifications  have been made to the prior  year
amounts to conform to the 2000 presentation.

Note 2  -  Accounting change

      An affiliate of the Group  capitalized  certain start-up costs,  primarily
organizational  and training,  over the period 1992-1996 related to a grassroots
refinery  construction project in Thailand.  These costs were considered part of
the effort required to prepare the refinery for operations. With the issuance of
the AICPA's  Statement  of Position  98-5,  "Reporting  on the Costs of Start-up
Activities",  these costs would be accounted for as period  expenses.  The Group
elected  early  adoption  of this  pronouncement  effective  January 1, 1998 and
accordingly, recorded a cumulative effect charge to income as of January 1, 1998
of $50 million  representing the Group's share of the applicable start-up costs.
Excluding the cumulative effect, the change in accounting for start-up costs did
not materially affect net income for 1998.

Note 3  -  Restructuring/Reorganization

      Caltex recorded a charge to selling,  general and administrative  expenses
of $37  million  and $86  million in 1999 and 1998,  respectively,  for  various
restructuring and reorganization activities undertaken to realign its downstream
operations along functional lines and reduce redundant operating activities. The
charges included severance and other termination benefits of $23 million and $60
million for  approximately  200  employees  and 500  employees in 1999 and 1998,
respectively.  All  affected  employees  had left Caltex by December  2000.  The
following table summarizes the restructuring/reorganization costs for 2000, 1999
and 1998 (millions of U.S. dollars):



      The $9 million  liability  as of December  31, 2000  primarily  relates to
future lease  commitments on vacated office space over the remaining  lease term
ending in 2002.  Adjustments made in 2000 and 1999 to recorded  liabilities were
insignificant.

      In addition to the above, 1999 net income included a $27 million after tax
charge for restructuring activities of affiliates.

Note 4  -  Assets Held for Disposal

      The Group continually  reviews its asset portfolio and periodically  sells
or  otherwise  disposes  of various  assets  that no longer fit into the Group's
strategic direction. The Group recorded a charge to earnings of approximately $4
million  in 2000  and $30  million  in both  1999 and 1998  related  to  various
marketing assets (primarily  service station land and buildings) which have been
removed from operation and are awaiting  disposal or sale as buyers are located.
Carrying  value of these  assets,  which is  based on  appraisals  or  estimated
selling prices, as of December 31, 2000 is approximately $25 million. The effect
of suspending  depreciation  on assets held for sale in 2000,  1999 and 1998 was
not material.


                                      C-12


                            CALTEX GROUP OF COMPANIES
                     NOTES TO COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Note 5  -  Operating leases

      The Group has operating  leases  involving  various  marketing  assets for
which net rental  expense was $92  million,  $112  million,  and $103 million in
2000, 1999, and 1998, respectively.

      Future net  minimum  rental  commitments  under  operating  leases  having
non-cancelable  terms in excess of one year are as follows (in  millions of U.S.
dollars):  2001 - $42; 2002 - $16; 2003 - $7; 2004 - $6; 2005 - $6; and 2006 and
thereafter - $23.

Note 6 - Taxes

      Taxes charged to income consist of the following:


      Income taxes have been computed on an individual company basis at rates in
effect in the various  countries of  operation.  The  effective tax rate differs
from the "expected" tax rate (U.S. Federal corporate tax rate) as follows:



      For 2000,  the  increase in  effective  tax rate is  primarily  due to the
larger  proportion of earnings from higher tax rate foreign  jurisdictions.  For
1999,  the  increase  in the  effective  tax  rate  resulting  from  the sale of
investment in an affiliate is net of the effect of previously unrecorded foreign
tax credit carry-forwards of $29 million.



                                      C-13


                            CALTEX GROUP OF COMPANIES
                     NOTES TO COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Note 6 - Taxes - continued

      Deferred income taxes are provided in each tax  jurisdiction for temporary
differences  between  the  financial  reporting  and the tax basis of assets and
liabilities.  Temporary  differences and tax loss carry-forwards which give rise
to deferred tax liabilities (assets) are as follows:


      A valuation  allowance has been  established to reduce deferred income tax
assets to amounts which, in the Group's judgement are more likely than not (more
than 50%) to be utilized  against  current and future  taxable income when those
temporary differences become deductible.

      Undistributed  earnings of subsidiaries and affiliates,  for which no U.S.
deferred income tax provision has been made,  approximated $3.3 billion and $3.4
billion as of December  31,  2000 and  December  31,  1999,  respectively.  Such
earnings  have been or are intended to be  indefinitely  reinvested,  and become
taxable in the U.S. only upon  remittance  as dividends.  It is not practical to
estimate  the amount of tax that may be payable on the  eventual  remittance  of
such earnings.  Upon remittance,  certain foreign  countries impose  withholding
taxes  which,  subject  to certain  limitations,  are  available  for use as tax
credits against the U.S. tax liability.  Excess U.S.  foreign income tax credits
are not recorded until realized.

Note 7 -  Inventories


      The  reported  value of  inventory  at December 31, 2000 and 1999 was less
than  its  current  cost  by  approximately   $152  million  and  $104  million,
respectively.  In 2000 and 1998,  certain  inventories  were recorded at market,
which was lower than the LIFO carrying value.  Adjustments to market reduced net
income $4 million in 2000 and $18 million in 1998. In 1999, the market valuation
adjustment reserves  established in prior years were eliminated as market prices
improved and the physical  units of inventory  were sold.  Elimination  of these
reserves  increased  net income in 1999 by $71  million.  At December  31, 2000,
inventories   were   primarily   reported  at  LIFO  carrying  cost  except  for
approximately $39 million of trading inventory recorded at market.

      Inventory  quantities  valued on the LIFO  basis  were  reduced at certain
locations during the periods presented.  Such inventory reductions increased net
income in 2000 and 1999 by $41 million each year and  decreased net income by $4
million (net of a related market valuation adjustment of $1 million) in 1998.


                                      C-14



                            CALTEX GROUP OF COMPANIES
                     NOTES TO COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Note 8 -  Equity in affiliates

Investments in affiliates at equity include the following:




      The carrying  value of the Group's  investment in its affiliates in excess
of its  proportionate  share of  affiliate  net equity is being  amortized  over
approximately 20 years.

      In 1999,  Caltex  Corporation  sold its 50%  interest in Koa Oil  Company,
Limited (Koa) with a net book value of  approximately  $219  million,  to Nippon
Mitsubishi Oil Corp, for approximately  $237 million in cash. As a result of the
sale,  Caltex  incurred  additional U.S. tax  liabilities of  approximately  $81
million.

      The remaining interest in Star Petroleum Refining Company,  Ltd. (SPRC) is
owned by a  governmental  entity of the Kingdom of Thailand.  Provisions  in the
SPRC  shareholders  agreement  limit the Group's  control and provide for active
participation  of  the  minority   shareholder  in  routine  business  operating
decisions.  The  agreement  also  mandates  reduction  in Group  ownership  to a
minority  position  before the year 2001;  however,  this  requirement  has been
delayed in view of the current economic difficulties in the region.

Shown below is  summarized  combined  financial  information  for  affiliates at
equity (in millions of U.S. dollars):





      Cash  dividends  received  from these  affiliates  were $83  million,  $71
million, and $50 million in 2000, 1999, and 1998, respectively.

      The summarized  combined  financial  information  shown above includes the
cumulative effect of the accounting change in 1998 as described in Note 2.

      Retained  earnings as of December 31, 2000 and 1999  includes $1.4 billion
which  represents the Group's share of  undistributed  earnings of affiliates at
equity.


                                      C-15


                            CALTEX GROUP OF COMPANIES
                     NOTES TO COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Note 9  -  Short-term debt

      Short-term  debt  consists  primarily  of  demand  and  promissory  notes,
acceptance  credits,  overdrafts and the current  portion of long-term debt. The
weighted average interest rates on short-term  financing as of December 31, 2000
and 1999 were 6.9% and 6.5%, respectively.  Unutilized lines of credit available
for short-term financing totaled $1.0 billion as of December 31, 2000.

Note 10  -  Long-term debt

      Long-term debt, with related  interest rates for 2000 and 1999 consists of
the following:




                                      C-16


                            CALTEX GROUP OF COMPANIES
                     NOTES TO COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Note 11  -  Financial Instruments

      Certain  Group  companies  are  parties  to  financial   instruments  with
off-balance  sheet credit and market risk,  principally  interest rate risk. The
Group's  outstanding  commitments  for interest rate swaps and foreign  currency
contractual amounts are:

      The Group enters into interest  rate swaps in managing its interest  risk,
and their effects are  recognized in the statement of income at the same time as
the interest  expense on the debt to which they relate.  The swap contracts have
remaining  maturities of up to six years.  Net unrealized  (losses) and gains on
contracts  outstanding  at December  31, 2000 and 1999 were ($1  million) and $4
million, respectively.

      The Group enters into forward exchange  contracts to hedge against some of
its foreign  currency  exposure  stemming  from  existing  liabilities  and firm
commitments.  Contracts to purchase foreign currencies  (principally  Australian
and Singapore  dollars) to hedge existing  liabilities  have maturities of up to
two years.  Net unrealized  losses  applicable to outstanding  forward  exchange
contracts  at  December  31,  2000 and 1999  were $37  million  and $5  million,
respectively.

      The Group hedges a portion of the market risks  associated  with its crude
oil and petroleum  product  purchases and sales.  Established  petroleum futures
exchanges are used, as well as "over-the-counter"  hedge instruments,  including
futures,  options,  swaps,  and other derivative  products.  Gains and losses on
hedges are deferred and recognized  concurrently  with the underlying  commodity
transactions.  Deferred (losses) and gains on hedging  contracts  outstanding at
year-end were ($4 million) in 2000 and $4 million in 1999.

      The Group's  recorded  value of fixed interest rate debt exceeded the fair
value  by $27  million  and $22  million  as of  December  31,  2000  and  1999,
respectively.  The fair  value  estimates  were  based on the  present  value of
expected cash flows discounted at current market rates for similar  obligations.
The reported amounts of financial instruments such as cash and cash equivalents,
marketable  securities,  notes and accounts  receivable,  and all other  current
liabilities approximate fair value because of their short maturities.

      The  Group  had  investments  in  debt  securities  available-for-sale  at
amortized  costs of $11 million and $120  million at December 31, 2000 and 1999,
respectively.  The fair value of these  securities at December 31, 2000 and 1999
approximated  amortized costs. As of December 31, 2000 and 1999,  investments in
debt securities  available-for-sale  had maturities of less than ten years.  The
Group's  carrying amount for  investments in affiliates  accounted for at equity
included  $1  million  and  $2  million,  as of  December  31,  2000  and  1999,
respectively,  for after-tax  unrealized net gains on investments  held by these
companies.

      The Group is exposed to credit  risks in the event of  non-performance  by
counter-parties  to  financial  instruments.   For  financial  instruments  with
institutions,  the Group does not expect any  counter-party  to fail to meet its
obligations given their high credit ratings. Other financial instruments exposed
to credit risk consist  primarily of trade  receivables.  These  receivables are
dispersed  among  the  countries  in which  the Group  operates,  thus  limiting
concentration of such risk. The Group performs ongoing credit evaluations of its
customers and generally does not require  collateral.  Letters of credit are the
principal  security  obtained  to  support  lines of credit  when the  financial
strength  of a  customer  is  not  considered  sufficient.  Credit  losses  have
historically been within management's expectations.


                                      C-17



                            CALTEX GROUP OF COMPANIES
                     NOTES TO COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Note 12  -  Employee benefit plans


      The Group has various retirement plans,  including defined benefit pension
plans, covering substantially all of its employees.  The benefit levels, vesting
terms  and  funding  practices  vary  among  plans.  The  following  provides  a
reconciliation  of benefit  obligations,  plan assets,  and funded status of the
various plans, primarily foreign.




                                      C-18





                            CALTEX GROUP OF COMPANIES
                     NOTES TO COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Note 12  -  Employee benefit plans - continued


      Other  post-retirement  benefits are comprised of contributory  healthcare
and life insurance  plans.  A one percentage  point change in the assumed health
care cost trend rate of 10% would change the post-retirement  benefit obligation
by $9 million  and would not have a material  effect on  aggregate  service  and
interest components.


Note 13  -  Commitments and contingencies

      Caltex is involved in tax audits in the United States and in certain other
jurisdictions.  The Internal Revenue Service's audit for the years 1987-1993 has
been  administratively  settled  and  Caltex  will  receive  a refund of tax and
interest for these years. In  jurisdictions  outside the United States,  the tax
authorities'  audits  are in various  stages of  completion.  In the  opinion of
management,  adequate  provision  has been made for  income  taxes for all years
under examination or subject to future examination.

      Caltex and certain of its subsidiaries are named as defendants, along with
privately  held  Philippine  ferry  and  shipping  companies  and  the  shipping
company's insurer,  in various lawsuits filed in the U.S. and the Philippines on
behalf of at least 3,350 parties,  who were either survivors of, or relatives of
persons who allegedly  died in a collision in Philippine  waters on December 20,
1987.  One vessel  involved in the  collision  was carrying  products for Caltex
(Philippines)  Inc. (a subsidiary  of Caltex) in  connection  with a contract of
affreightment.  Although  Caltex  had no  direct  or  indirect  ownership  in or
operational responsibility for either vessel, various theories of liability have
been alleged against Caltex.  The major suit filed in the U.S.  (Louisiana State
Court) was  dismissed in December  2000 on forum non  conveniens  grounds and is
currently  under appeal by the plaintiffs.  Caltex will vigorously  contest this
appeal.  Caltex is actively pursuing  dismissal of all Philippine  litigation on
the  strength  of a  Philippine  Supreme  Court  decision  absolving  it of  any
responsibility for the collision.  No reasonable estimate of damages involved or
being sought can be made at this time.

         The  Group  may  be  subject   to  loss   contingencies   pursuant   to
environmental laws and regulations in each of the countries in which it operates
that,  in the  future,  may  require  the  Group to take  action to  correct  or
remediate  the  effects  on the  environment  of prior  disposal  or  release of
petroleum   substances  by  the  Group.  The  amount  of  such  future  cost  is
indeterminable  due to such  factors as the nature of the new  regulations,  the
unknown magnitude of any possible  contamination,  the unknown timing and extent
of the  corrective  actions that may be  required,  and the extent to which such
costs are recoverable from third parties.

      In the Group's  opinion,  while it is impossible to ascertain the ultimate
legal and financial  liability,  if any, with respect to the above mentioned and
other  contingent  liabilities,  the  aggregate  amount that may arise from such
liabilities  is not  anticipated  to be  material  in  relation  to the  Group's
combined  financial  position  or  liquidity,  or results of  operations  over a
reasonable period of time.

                                      C-19


                            CALTEX GROUP OF COMPANIES
                     NOTES TO COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Note 13  -  Commitments and contingencies - continued

      A Caltex  subsidiary has a contractual  commitment  until 2007 to purchase
petroleum  products in conjunction  with the financing of a refinery owned by an
affiliate.  Total future  estimated  commitments  under this contract,  based on
current pricing and projected growth rates, are  approximately  $0.8 billion per
year.  Purchases  (in  billions of U.S.  dollars)  under this and other  similar
contracts were $1.0, $0.7 and $0.8 in 2000, 1999, and 1998 respectively.

      Caltex is contingently liable for sponsor support funding for a maximum of
$193 million in connection with an affiliate's project finance obligations.  The
project  has been  operational  since 1996 and has  successfully  completed  all
mechanical,  technical and reliability  tests associated with the plant physical
completion  covenant.  However,  the  affiliate  has been  unable  to  satisfy a
covenant  relating to a working capital  requirement.  As a result,  a technical
event of default  exists which has not been waived by the  lenders.  The lenders
have not enforced  their rights and remedies  under the finance  agreements  and
they have not indicated an intention to do so. The affiliate is current on these
financial  obligations  and  anticipates  resolving  the issue with its  secured
creditors during further restructuring discussions.  During 2000, Caltex and the
other sponsor  provided  temporary  short-term  extended trade credit related to
crude oil supply with an  outstanding  balance  owing to Caltex at December  31,
2000 of $124 million.

Note 14  -  Oil and gas exploration, development and producing activities

     The financial  statements of Chevron  Corporation  and Texaco Inc.  contain
required  supplementary   information  on  oil  and  gas  producing  activities,
including disclosures on affiliates at equity. Accordingly, such disclosures are
not presented herein.


                                      C-20

