
10-K
CHEVRON CORPORATION 1999 FORM 10-K



================================================================================

                UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                    Form 10-K

   |X| ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
       ACT OF 1934

                   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1999

                                       OR

   |_| TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
       EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

       For the transition period from               to
                                      -------------   ---------------

                         Commission File Number 1-368-2

                               Chevron Corporation
              ----------------------------------------------------
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                                           575 Market Street,
  Delaware          94-0890210           San Francisco, California      94105
- ---------------    ---------------       -------------------------    --------
(State or other   (I.R.S. Employer       (Address of principal       (Zip Code)
jurisdiction of    Identification          executive offices)
incorporation      Number)
or organization)


        Registrant's telephone number, including area code (415) 894-7700

                                      NONE
       -------------------------------------------------------------------
         (Former  name  or former address, if changed since last report.)

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                    Name of Each Exchange
     Title of Each Class                            on Which Registered
- --------------------------------------             -----------------------
Common stock par value $1.50 per share             New York Stock Exchange, Inc.
Preferred stock purchase rights                    Chicago Stock Exchange
                                                   Pacific Exchange



Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding 12 months (or for such  shorter  period that the  registrant  was
required  to file  such  reports),  and  (2) has  been  subject  to such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes    X      No
                                      ----------   -----------

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation  S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,  to the
best of registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. |X|

     Aggregate market value of the voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the
              Registrant as of February 29, 2000 - $48,732,596,074

                  Number of Shares of Common Stock outstanding
                      as of February 29, 2000 - 654,870,769

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
                        (To The Extent Indicated Herein)

Notice of Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement Dated March 22, 2000 (in Part III)


================================================================================





                                
Item                                                                Page No.

                                    PART I

 1.   Business...............................................          1
         (a)  General Development of Business................          1
         (b)  Description of Business and Properties.........          2
              Capital and Exploratory Expenditures...........          3
              Petroleum - Exploration and Production.........          4
                  Liquids and Natural Gas Production.........          4
                  Acreage....................................          5
                  Reserves and Contract Obligations..........          7
                  Development Activities.....................          7
                  Exploration Activities.....................          8
                  Review of Ongoing Exploration and
                   Production Activities In Key Areas........          9
              Petroleum - Natural Gas Liquids................         13
              Petroleum - Refining...........................         13
              Petroleum - Refined Products Marketing.........         14
              Petroleum - Transportation.....................         16
              Chemicals......................................         17
              Coal...........................................         18
              Electronic Commerce and Technology.............         18
              Research and Environmental Protection..........         18
 2.   Properties.............................................         20
 3.   Legal Proceedings......................................         20
 4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders....         20
      Executive Officers of the Registrant...................         21

                                    PART II

 5.   Market for the Registrant's Common Equity
      and Related Stockholder Matters........................         22
 6.   Selected Financial Data................................         22
 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
      Condition and Results of Operations....................         22
 8.   Financial Statements...................................         22
 8.   Supplementary Data   - Quarterly Results...............         22
                           - Oil and Gas Producing Activities         22
 9.   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants
      on Accounting and Financial Disclosure.................         22

                                   PART III

10.   Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.....         23
11.   Executive Compensation.................................         23
12.   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
       and Management........................................         23
13.   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.........         23

                                    PART IV

14.   Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and
       Reports on Form 8-K...................................         23





                                     PART I

Item 1.  Business

     (a)  General Development of Business

Summary Description of Chevron
- ------------------------------
Chevron Corporation (1), a Delaware corporation, manages its investments in, and
provides  administrative,  financial and management support to, U.S. and foreign
subsidiaries   and  affiliates  that  engage  in  fully   integrated   petroleum
operations,  chemicals  operations and coal mining.  The company operates in the
United  States  and  approximately  100 other  countries.  Petroleum  operations
consist of exploring for,  developing  and producing  crude oil and natural gas;
refining  crude oil into  finished  petroleum  products;  marketing  crude  oil,
natural gas and the many products derived from petroleum; and transporting crude
oil,  natural gas and petroleum  products by pipelines,  marine  vessels,  motor
equipment  and rail  car.  Chemicals  operations  include  the  manufacture  and
marketing of commodity petrochemicals, plastics for industrial uses and fuel and
lube oil additives.

In this report, exploration and production of crude oil, natural gas liquids and
natural  gas may be  referred to as "E&P" or  "upstream"  activities.  Refining,
marketing  and  transportation  may be  referred  to as "RM&T"  or  "downstream"
activities.  A list of the company's major subsidiaries is presented on page E-2
of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. As of December 31, 1999,  Chevron had 36,490
employees, 74 percent of whom were employed in U.S. operations.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS RELEVANT TO FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION FOR THE
                   PURPOSE OF "SAFE HARBOR" PROVISIONS OF THE
                PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995

This annual report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking  statements relating to
Chevron's  operations  that are  based  on  management's  current  expectations,
estimates and projections  about the petroleum and chemicals  industries.  Words
such as "expects," "intends," "plans," "projects,"  "believes,"  "estimates" and
similar expressions are used to identify such forward-looking statements.  These
statements are not guarantees of future  performance  and involve certain risks,
uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict.  Therefore,  actual
outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or forecast in
such forward-looking statements.

Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are crude
oil and natural gas prices; refining and marketing margins; chemicals prices and
competitive  conditions affecting supply and demand for the company's aromatics,
olefins and additives products; potential failure to achieve expected production
from existing and future oil and gas development  projects;  potential delays in
the  development,  construction  or  start-up  of  planned  projects;  potential
disruption  or  interruption  of  the  company's   production  or  manufacturing
facilities  due to  accidents  or  political  events;  potential  liability  for
remedial  actions  under  existing  or  future  environmental   regulations  and
litigation  (including,  particularly,  regulations and litigation  dealing with
gasoline  composition and  characteristics);  and potential  liability resulting
from  pending  or future  litigation.  In  addition,  such  statements  could be
affected  by  general   domestic  and   international   economic  and  political
conditions.  Unpredictable  or unknown  factors not discussed  herein also could
have material adverse effects on forward-looking statements.  Chevron undertakes
no obligation to update publicly any  forward-looking  statements,  whether as a
result of new information, future events or otherwise.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1)  Incorporated in Delaware in 1926 as Standard Oil Company of California, the
     company  adopted  the name  Chevron  Corporation  in 1984.  As used in this
     report,   the  term  "Chevron"  and  such  terms  as  "the  company,"  "the
     corporation," "our," "we," and "us" may refer to Chevron  Corporation,  one
     or more of its  consolidated  subsidiaries,  or to all of them  taken  as a
     whole, but unless it is stated otherwise,  does not include "affiliates" of
     Chevron  -  i.e.,  those  companies  accounted  for  by the  equity  method
     (generally  owned 50 percent or less), or investments  accounted for by the
     cost method.

     As used in this  report,  the term  "Caltex"  may refer to the Caltex Group
     of companies,  any  one  company  of  the  group,  any of  their
     consolidated subsidiaries,  or to all of them  taken as a whole and also
     includes the "affiliates" of Caltex.

     All of these terms are used for convenience only, and are not intended as a
     precise description of any of the separate companies, each of which manages
     its own affairs.




                                      -1-


Overview of Petroleum Industry
- ------------------------------
Petroleum industry  operations and profitability are influenced by many factors,
over  some of  which  individual  oil and gas  companies  have  little  control.
Governmental  policies,  particularly  in the areas of taxation,  energy and the
environment, have a significant impact on petroleum activities, regulating where
and how companies  conduct their operations and formulate their products and, in
some cases,  limiting their profits  directly.  Prices for crude oil and natural
gas,  petroleum  products and petrochemicals are determined by supply and demand
for these  commodities.  OPEC member  countries  are typically the world's swing
producers  of crude  oil,  and their  production  levels  are a major  factor in
determining  worldwide supply. Demand for crude oil and its products and natural
gas is  largely  driven  by the  condition  of  local,  national  and  worldwide
economies,  although  weather  patterns  and  taxation  relative to other energy
sources also play a  significant  part.  Natural gas is  generally  produced and
consumed on a country or regional basis.

Operating Environment
- ---------------------
Refer to page FS-2 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K in Management's Discussion
and Analysis of Financial  Condition and Results of Operations  for a discussion
on the company's current operating environment and outlook.

Chevron Strategic Priorities
- ----------------------------
Chevron's  strategic  objective is to exceed the  financial  performance  of its
strongest  industry  competitors  in  terms  of total  stockholder  return.  The
company's  overriding goal is to achieve the highest total stockholder return in
its peer group for the five-year  period 2000 - 2004.  To achieve its goal,  the
company has targeted a 15 percent  annual  growth rate in earnings per share for
the three-year  period 2000 - 2002,  supported by worldwide  liquids and natural
gas  production  growth of 4 to 4.5 percent  per year,  and a minimum 12 percent
return on capital employed.

To attain these financial and operational  targets,  the company has established
four key priorities:

o    Operational   Excellence:   Safe,  reliable  and  efficient   operations
     throughout  are the top  priority  for the  company.  The company  seeks to
     ensure it achieves sustainable improvements in its operations.

o    Cost  Reduction:  The  company  will  continue to focus on ways of reducing
     costs  across its  activities.  As  examples,  the company has seen ongoing
     successes in cost reduction in the areas of energy  consumption  and global
     procurement.

o    Capital Stewardship: The company is implementing work processes designed to
     ensure that it employs  capital  funding most  efficiently.  This  involves
     decision-making   tools  aimed  at  selecting  the  most   financially  and
     strategically attractive projects.  Additionally, the company has developed
     processes  to ensure the  execution  of  projects  is  efficient,  bringing
     projects to completion on time and within budgeted expenditures.

o    Profitable  Growth:  The  company  will seek  continued  growth in its core
     businesses  -  exploration   and   production,   refining,   marketing  and
     transportation,  and chemicals.  The company is also looking to capture new
     opportunities,   such  as  investing  in  new  process  technologies,   and
     information and Internet technologies.

Supporting these four priorities is a continued and improved focus on:

o    Organizational Capability: The company has developed strategies to focus on
     developing the skills of its employees,  sharing best practices  across the
     organization,  and applying  systems and processes  effectively to the four
     priorities described above.

     (b)  Description of Business and Properties

The company's  largest  business  segments are its  exploration  and  production
operations and its refining, marketing and transportation operations.  Chemicals
is also a significant  operation.  The  petroleum  activities of the company are
widely dispersed geographically,  with upstream and downstream operations in the
United States and Canada and upstream operations in Nigeria, Angola, Republic of
Congo, Australia, the United Kingdom, Norway, China, Papua New Guinea, Thailand,
Argentina  and  Venezuela.   The  company's   Caltex   affiliate,   through  its
subsidiaries and affiliates,  conducts exploration and production and geothermal
operations in Indonesia and refining and marketing



                                      -2-


activities in Asia,  Africa,  the Middle East,  Australia and New Zealand,  with
major operations in Korea, Australia,  Thailand, the Philippines,  Singapore and
South  Africa.  The  company's   Tengizchevroil  affiliate  conducts  production
activities in  Kazakhstan.  The company  expects to expand its operations in the
Caspian  Region by  exploring  for  crude oil and  natural  gas,  expanding  the
production  and  transportation  infrastructure,  developing  new  crude oil and
natural gas markets, and identifying other business opportunities. The company's
Dynegy  Inc.  (Dynegy)  affiliate  is one of the  leading  marketers  of  energy
products and services in the United States with  customers in the United States,
Canada and the United Kingdom. Its business activities include energy marketing,
independent   power   generation   and   gathering,   processing,   selling  and
transportation of natural gas and natural gas liquids.  In February 2000, Dynegy
merged with Illinova  Corporation,  an energy services  holding company based in
Illinois.  Chevron  invested an additional $200 million to maintain a comparable
ownership  interest in the merged company.  The company expects that this merger
will accelerate Dynegy's growth in the power generation and marketing business.

The company's  chemicals  operations are concentrated in the United States,  but
also include manufacturing facilities in France, Japan, Brazil, Singapore, Saudi
Arabia and Mexico.  Chemicals manufacturing facilities are under construction in
China. In February 2000,  Chevron and Phillips Petroleum Company signed a letter
of  intent  and  exclusivity  agreement  to  combine  most  of  their  chemicals
businesses  into a joint venture.  Each company will own 50 percent of the joint
venture, which is subject to final approval of the companies' board of directors
and regulatory review. Final approvals are expected to be completed by mid-2000.

Tabulations  of segment sales and other  operating  revenues,  earnings,  income
taxes and assets, by United States and  International  geographic areas, for the
years  1997  to  1999,  may be  found  in Note 9 to the  Consolidated  Financial
Statements  beginning  on page  FS-21 of this  Annual  Report on Form  10-K.  In
addition,  similar comparative data for the company's  investments in and income
from equity affiliates and property,  plant and equipment are contained in Notes
12 and 13 on pages FS-23 to FS-25.

The company's  worldwide  operations can be affected  significantly  by changing
economic,  tax, regulatory and political  environments in the various countries,
including the United States, in which it operates. Environmental regulations and
government  policies concerning  economic  development,  energy and taxation may
have a significant effect on the company's operations.  Management evaluates the
economic and political risk of initiating,  maintaining or expanding  operations
in  any  geographical  area.  The  company  closely  monitors  political  events
worldwide and the possible threat these may pose to its activities, particularly
the company's oil and gas exploration and production operations,  and the safety
of the company's employees.

The company attempts to avoid  unnecessary  involvement in partisan  politics in
the communities in which it operates but  participates in the political  process
to  safeguard  its assets and to ensure  that the  community  benefits  from its
operations and remains receptive to its continued presence.

A discussion of the company's use of derivative financial  instruments to manage
its exposure to price risk stemming from its integrated  petroleum activities is
contained  on page  FS-5 of this  Annual  Report  on Form  10-K in  Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

       Capital and Exploratory Expenditures
       ------------------------------------
Worldwide capital and exploratory (C&E)  expenditures  totaled $6.133 billion in
1999,  compared  with  $5.314  billion in 1998.  Expenditures  for  consolidated
worldwide exploration and production increased by 45 percent between years. This
increase was driven by two significant  international exploration and production
acquisitions  in 1999:  the  Rutherford-Moran  Oil  Corporation  in Thailand and
Petrolera  Argentina San Jorge S.A. in Argentina.  U.S. refining,  marketing and
transportation  expenditures  decreased in 1999 after  having  increased in 1998
with  the   acquisition  of  Amoco's  North  American   lubricants   operations.
International  refining,  marketing and transportation  expenditures  doubled to
$183 million as the Caspian Pipeline  Consortium began  construction of pipeline
facilities  linking the Tengiz Field in  Kazakhstan  with the Russian Black Sea.
Chemicals  expenditures  were 22 percent lower in 1999 as the company  completed
major expansion and construction projects begun in earlier years and constrained
new capital spending in this segment.

The  company's  share of  upstream  and  downstream  expenditures  by its Caltex
affiliate  accounted for about 53 percent of affiliates'  expenditures  in 1999,
although at lower absolute levels than in 1998. Caltex expenditures



                                      -3-


continued to be curtailed as a result of economic conditions in the Asia-Pacific
region.  Expenditures  by the company's  chemicals  affiliates were $169 million
lower  in 1999 as the  construction  of a new  manufacturing  facility  in Saudi
Arabia was completed during the year.

Chevron's C&E expenditures  during 1999 and 1998 are summarized in the following
table:




The company's 2000 C&E expenditures,  including its share of equity  affiliates'
expenditures, are projected at $5.2 billion, 15 percent lower than 1999 spending
levels.  Consolidated  companies'  expenditures  are  planned to  decrease by 22
percent  to $4.2  billion,  while  the  company's  share of  equity  affiliates'
expenditures is expected to increase by 33 percent to just over $1 billion.  The
foregoing  expenditure levels may change depending on the timing of a successful
formation of the  proposed  chemicals  joint  venture  with  Phillips  Petroleum
Company.  The company  plans to devote the majority of its C&E  expenditures  to
worldwide   upstream   projects,   while  limiting   capital   spending  in  the
international chemicals and downstream businesses.

       Petroleum - Exploration and Production
       --------------------------------------

Liquids and Natural Gas Production
- ----------------------------------
In 1999, Chevron conducted its worldwide  exploration and production  operations
in the United States and  approximately 25 other countries.  Worldwide net crude
oil and natural gas liquids production,  including that of affiliates, increased
in 1999 by  nearly  2  percent  - the  seventh  consecutive  year of  production
increases.  Net liquids  production  in the United  States fell about 3 percent.
International net liquids production, including affiliates, increased by about 4
percent  in 1999 - the tenth  consecutive  year of  production  increases.  This
increase was due primarily to new production in Argentina and Thailand following
acquisitions  the company  made in 1999;  higher  production  from new fields in
Angola;  and higher  production  in  Kazakhstan,  where the  company's  share of
production  at  the  Tengiz  Field  increased  as  processing  plant  expansions
progressed.  These  increases  were partially  offset by production  declines in
Australia, Indonesia (Caltex operations) and Nigeria.

Net production of natural gas, including  affiliates,  increased by 5 percent in
1999. United States production fell about six percent,  as higher field declines
and property sales more than offset new production from the Gulf of Mexico shelf
and  deepwater  Gulf of Mexico.  International  volumes  increased 34 percent in
1999.  1999  production  volumes  reflected a full year of  production  from the
Britannia Field in the U.K. North Sea, which began producing in August 1998; new
production  in Thailand and  Argentina;  and higher  production  in  Kazakhstan,
Canada, Nigeria and Australia. These increases were slightly offset by a decline
in production in Indonesia  (Caltex  operations).  The company  expects  current
plans to expand the Escravos Gas Project in Nigeria, and the continued expansion
and

                                      -4-


development  of  its  projects  in  Australia,  to  contribute  to  natural  gas
production increases from its international portfolio.

The following table  summarizes the company's and its affiliates' net production
of crude oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas for 1999 and 1998.




Acreage
- -------
At December 31, 1999, the company owned or had under lease or similar agreements
undeveloped and developed oil and gas properties  located  throughout the world.
Undeveloped  acreage  includes  undeveloped  proved  acreage.  The  geographical
distribution of the company's acreage is shown in the next table.



                                      -5-




Refer to Table III on pages  FS-33 to FS-35 of this  Annual  Report on Form 10-K
for  data  about  the  company's  average  sales  price  per unit of oil and gas
produced,  as well as the average  production  cost per unit for 1999,  1998 and
1997. The following table  summarizes gross and net productive wells at year-end
1999 for the company and its affiliates.






                                      -6-


Reserves and Contract Obligations
- ---------------------------------
Table IV on pages FS-35 and FS-36 of this Annual  Report on Form 10-K sets forth
the  company's  net proved  oil and gas  reserves,  by  geographic  area,  as of
December 31, 1999,  1998 and 1997.  During 2000, the company will file estimates
of oil and gas  reserves  with the  Department  of  Energy,  Energy  Information
Agency.  Those  estimates are consistent  with the reserve data reported on page
FS-36 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

In 1999,  Chevron's worldwide oil and equivalent-gas (OEG) barrels of net proved
reserves additions exceeded  production for the seventh  consecutive year with a
replacement  rate  of  108  percent  of  net  production,  including  sales  and
acquisitions.  Excluding sales and  acquisitions,  the  replacement  rate was 67
percent of net  production.  The following  table  summarizes  the company's net
additions  to net proved  reserves  of crude oil and  natural  gas  liquids  and
natural gas, compared with net production during 1999.





The  company  sells  crude  oil and gas from its  producing  operations  under a
variety of contractual arrangements. Most contracts generally commit the company
to sell quantities based on production from specified properties but certain gas
sales contracts  specify delivery of fixed and determinable  quantities.  In the
United States, the company is obligated to sell substantially all of the natural
gas  produced and owned or  controlled  by the company in the lower 48 states to
Dynegy Inc. Outside the United States, the company is contractually committed to
deliver approximately 430 billion cubic feet of natural gas through 2020 and 140
billion  cubic  feet of  natural  gas  through  2002  from  Australian  and U.K.
reserves.   Pricing  terms  for   substantially   all  of  these  contracts  are
market-based.   The  company  believes  it  can  satisfy  these  contracts  from
quantities   available  from  production  of  the  company's   proved  developed
Australian and U.K. natural gas reserves.

Development Activities
- ----------------------
Details of the company's  development  expenditures and costs of proved property
acquisitions  for 1999,  1998 and 1997 are presented in Table I on page FS-32 of
this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

The table below  summarizes  the company's  net interest in  productive  and dry
development  wells  completed  in each of the past three years and the status of
the company's  development  wells  drilling at December 31, 1999. A "development
well" is a well drilled within the proved area of an oil or gas reservoir to the
depth of a  stratigraphic  horizon  known  to be  productive.  "Wells  drilling"
include wells temporarily suspended.



                                      -7-





Exploration Activities
- ----------------------
The following table summarizes the company's net interests in productive and dry
exploratory  wells  completed  in each of the last three years and the number of
exploratory wells drilling at December 31, 1999.




"Exploratory wells" are wells drilled to find and produce oil or gas in unproved
areas and  include  delineation  wells,  which are wells  drilled  to find a new
reservoir in a field  previously found to be productive of oil or gas in another
reservoir  or to  extend  a known  reservoir  beyond  the  proved  area.  "Wells
drilling" include wells temporarily  suspended.  The company had $374 million of
suspended  exploratory  wells  included in  properties,  plant and  equipment at
year-end 1999, an increase of $181 million from 1998. The increase between years
is  primarily  due to  extensive  drilling in Angola and the  deepwater  Gulf of
Mexico during 1999. The wells are suspended pending a final determination of the
commercial potential of the related oil and gas fields. The ultimate disposition
of these well costs is dependent on the results of future  exploratory  drilling
activity and development decisions.



                                      -8-


Details of the company's exploration expenditures and costs of unproved property
acquisitions  for 1999,  1998 and 1997 are presented in Table I on page FS-32 of
this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Review of Ongoing Exploration and Production Activities in Key Areas
- --------------------------------------------------------------------
Chevron's 1999 key upstream activities not discussed in Management's  Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  beginning on page
FS-2 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K are presented  below. In addition to the
activities  discussed,  Chevron was active in other geographic  areas, but these
activities were of less significance.

A)       United  States

United States exploration and production activities are concentrated in over 300
fields located in the Gulf of Mexico,  Texas,  Rocky  Mountains,  California and
Alaska.  Some of the company's more significant  activities in the United States
are described below.

Chevron has  interests in three  deepwater  developments  in the Gulf of Mexico.
Genesis,  Chevron's first deepwater  operation,  located in 2,600 feet of water,
began  production  in January  1999.  Chevron is  operator  and has a 57 percent
interest in Genesis.  Peak total  production is expected to reach 55,000 barrels
of oil and 65 million  cubic feet of gas per day in  mid-2000.  Chevron has a 40
percent  interest in the Gemini  deepwater  development  located in  Mississippi
Canyon  Block 292 in 3,400 feet of water.  Initial  production  occurred in June
1999 and  peak  production  rates of 200  million  cubic  feet of gas and  3,000
barrels of condensate  per day were achieved in late 1999.  Typhoon is Chevron's
third  deepwater  development,  in 2,000  feet of water,  in the Gulf of Mexico.
Under current  development  plans,  initial production from Typhoon is scheduled
for third quarter 2001 and will support  production of 40,000 barrels of oil and
60 million cubic feet of gas per day.  Chevron is the operator with a 50 percent
interest.

Chevron has  interests in the Viosca Knoll Trend in the Gulf of Mexico shelf and
in 1999  continued  to focus on  establishing  production  from  additional  gas
reservoirs.  Total  production is currently 80 million cubic feet of gas per day
from four wells and is expected to  approach  200 million  cubic feet of gas per
day once an infrastructure  is completed in late 2000, with further  development
planned for 2001 and 2002.  Chevron's share of average 1999 total  production of
40 million cubic feet of gas per day was 80 percent.  Development  of the Destin
Dome area of the  Norphlet  trend  offshore  Florida  continues to be subject to
obtaining regulatory approvals. A draft environmental impact statement (EIS) was
issued  August  1999  by  the  governing  agencies   indicating  no  significant
environmental impacts had been found. Issuance of the final EIS and a regulatory
ruling on the Development and Production Plan is expected in late 2000.

Onshore  California,  Chevron  continued  to expand its use of thermal  enhanced
recovery  techniques  to  increase  the  production  rate and the  amount of oil
ultimately  recoverable  from fields in the San  Joaquin  Valley,  with  efforts
focused on the Cymric Field. Average 1999 production from the San Joaquin Valley
fields was 103,000 barrels of oil and 114 million cubic feet of gas per day.

In Alaska,  Chevron  continued  to  participate  in  appraisal  and  delineation
drilling  in the  Prudhoe  Bay  satellite  developments.  First  oil from  these
developments is planned for 2002. Chevron holds working interests of between 6
and 41 percent in these  prospects.  In 1999,  Chevron,  along with BP Amoco and
Phillips  Petroleum,  acquired 33 leases totaling  233,000 acres in the National
Petroleum Reserve of Alaska.

B)       Africa

Nigeria:  Chevron's  principal  subsidiary in Nigeria,  Chevron  Nigeria Limited
(CNL),  operates and holds a 40 percent interest in 11 concessions  totaling 2.3
million acres, predominantly in the swamp and near offshore regions of the Niger
Delta.  During 1999, CNL's onshore and swamp area concessions were renewed for a
second  30-year term.  CNL's  offshore  concessions  expire in 2008, and renewal
efforts will begin soon.  Chevron Oil Company Nigeria Limited (COCNL) holds a 20
percent interest in six concessions, covering 600,000 acres, operated by Texaco.
Chevron  Petroleum  Nigeria  Limited  (CPNL)  oversees  and  manages new venture
projects in Nigeria. CPNL has a 30 percent interest in one deepwater Niger Delta
block and three inland Benue Basin  blocks  operated by Elf. A sole  interest is
also held by CPNL in six other Benue Basin blocks  through a  production-sharing
contract.



                                      -9-


Production from the 33  CNL-operated  fields  averaged about 420,000 barrels of
liquids per day in 1999,  slightly  higher than 1998.  Production from the COCNL
fields averaged approximately 45,000 barrels of oil per day in 1999.

Construction  of Escravos Gas Project  Phase 2 is scheduled  for  completion  in
second  quarter  2000.  Phase 2 will expand the gas  processing  capacity of the
facility to 285 million cubic feet per day.  Preliminary design is under way for
Phase 3 of the  gas  plant,  which  will  add a  second  train  and  expand  gas
processing to 680 million  cubic feet per day, once the necessary  approvals are
obtained.   Feasibility   engineering  and  technical  evaluations  are  nearing
completion  for a  Gas-To-Liquids  (GTL)  plant  proposed  for  construction  in
Escravos. Promising results would lead to continued development during 2000. The
proposed  30,000-barrels-per-day Escravos project is expected to be the first of
a previously announced GTL globalization effort by Chevron and SASOL.

In 1999,  CNL was appointed  the Managing  Sponsor of a consortium of six energy
companies,  which was granted  development  rights by the  governments of Benin,
Ghana,  Nigeria and Togo to construct  and operate a gas  transmission  pipeline
between  these  countries.  Subject  to  successful  negotiation  of  concession
conditions  with the  governments,  commercial  operations  may commence by late
2002.

Angola: The company is the operator of two concessions, Blocks 0 and 14, off the
coast of Angola's Cabinda Province.  Block 0 is a  2,100-square-mile  concession
adjacent to the Cabinda coastline in which Chevron has an approximate 39 percent
interest.  Block 14 is a 1,560-square-mile  deepwater concession located west of
Block 0, in which Chevron has a 31 percent interest.

Block 0 crude oil  production  during 1999 averaged  460,000  barrels per day up
from an average of 421,000 in 1998.  Area A of Block 0 includes 23 major fields,
13 in the Malongo Area and 10 in the Takula  Area.  Fifteen of the Area A fields
are currently  producing.  The Banzala Field achieved first production in August
1999  and is  producing  at a rate  of  over  20,000  barrels  of oil  per  day.
Installation  of  new  waterflood  projects  in  the  Kungulo  and  Vuko  fields
progressed.  Area B includes six major fields.  The Kokongo and Lomba fields and
the  southern  part of the Nemba  Field have  undergone  the  initial  stages of
development  and  are  currently  on  production  with  additional  infill  well
opportunities  envisioned  for the  Kokongo  and Nemba  fields  in 2000.  Future
development  plans also include  installation of the North Nemba  production and
gas injection  platform in 2001.  During 1999, a vessel  carrying the production
deck for the North Nemba  facility  capsized and the deck was lost. As a result,
the start of  production  from North  Nemba will be delayed  from 2000 to 2001.
This is not  expected  to have a  significant  impact  on  overall  2000 or 2001
production  levels.  Area C includes  seven  major  fields.  The Ndola and Sanha
fields are currently on production.

Four fields have been  discovered  in Block 14 - Kuito,  Landana,  Benguela  and
Belize.  First  production  from the Kuito Field  commenced  in  December  1999.
Production  rates in early 2000 average  30,000 barrels of oil per day. Kuito is
being developed using a phased approach,  with Phase One production  expected to
average  over  70,000  barrels  per day in 2000 and to peak at a rate of 100,000
barrels per day during the first half of 2000.  The Benguela and Belize  fields,
discovered in 1998, are located near the Kuito Field. Development planning is in
progress  for the two fields with project  authorization  targeted for the first
half of 2001.  For the Landana  Field,  further  appraisal and study is required
prior to development planning.

Republic of Congo:  Chevron has  interests in three  license  areas - Haute Mer,
Marine VII and Mer  Profonde  Sud - in offshore  Congo,  adjacent  to  Chevron's
concessions in Angola.  All licenses are  partner-operated.  Net production from
Chevron's concessions in the Republic of Congo averaged about 29,000 barrels per
day in 1999.  In the Marine VII permit  area,  where  Chevron has an interest of
about 29 percent in the Kitina and Sounda Exploitation  Permits,  development of
the Kitina Field continued and total production averaged about 36,000 barrels of
oil per day. Further development work, including gas injection facilities and an
infill well,  are planned for 2000. In Haute Mer, where Chevron has a 30 percent
interest,  development  of the  Nkossa  Field  continued  with the  drilling  of
additional  production and gas injection  wells.  Total production in the field,
operated  by Elf Congo,  averaged  about  74,000  barrels  of oil and  liquefied
petroleum  gas per day in 1999.  Development  planning  for the Moho and Bilondo
fields  in the  Haute Mer  license  continues.  Chevron  obtained  a 15  percent
interest in the Mer Profonde Sud license at the end of 1999.




                                      -10-


C)   Other International Areas

Caspian Region: The  Tengizchevroil  (TCO) partnership formed in 1993 covers the
Tengiz and  Korolev oil fields in western  Kazakhstan.  Chevron has a 45 percent
interest  in TCO.  In 1999,  total  liquids  production  from the  Tengiz  Field
increased for the sixth straight year, averaging 214,000 barrels per day. TCO is
nearing completion of a three-year plant expansion project. The project provides
TCO with additional processing and export facilities that will permit production
to increase to  approximately  260,000  barrels per day by the fourth quarter of
2000.  TCO plans to  initiate  production  from the Korolev  Field in 2001.  The
Caspian  Pipeline  Consortium  (CPC)  was  formed  to build a crude  oil  export
pipeline from the Tengiz oil field to the Russian Black Sea coast at a projected
total cost of $2.5 billion. When completed,  the CPC pipeline will allow for the
export of an initial  capacity of 600,000 barrels of oil per day,  expandable to
1.5 million barrels per day with  additional  pump stations,  tankage and marine
loading  facilities.  Chevron  has  a 15  percent  ownership  interest  in  CPC.
Construction at the marine  terminal and tank farm commenced in May 1999,  while
pipe laying began in November 1999. CPC remains on schedule to deliver first oil
by July 2001.

Europe:  Chevron  holds  interests in four  producing  fields  off-shore  United
Kingdom and Norway:  the Alba oil field, the Britannia gas condensate field, and
non-operated  interests in Statfjord and Draugen. Total production from the Alba
Field averaged 74,000 barrels of crude oil per day in 1999.  Chevron's  interest
in the Alba Field is approximately  21 percent.  1999 was the first full year of
production  for the  Britannia  Field.  At peak demand,  the field  produced 740
million  cubic  feet of gas per day and in excess of 45,000  barrels  per day of
condensate.  Chevron has an  approximate  30 percent  interest in Britannia  and
shares  operatorship with Conoco.  In Norway,  production from the Draugen Field
averaged 209,000 barrels of crude oil per day. Chevron's interest in the Draugen
Field is about 8 percent.

Canada:  In 1999,  Chevron  continued to increase its offshore lease position in
Canada's  East  Coast and  maintained  focus on core  areas in  Western  Canada.
Production  from the Hibernia Field, in which Chevron holds an interest of about
27 percent, averaged approximately 100,000 barrels of crude oil per day in 1999,
with rates up to 150,000  barrels per day achieved during the latter part of the
year.  Delineation  drilling of the Hebron Field continued  during the year with
encouraging results.  Chevron was appointed operator of the Hebron Field and has
an approximate  30 percent  interest.  Chevron also acquired  interests in three
deepwater  parcels totaling  approximately  1.2 million acres at the Nova Scotia
lease sale in April 1999. Chevron's interest in these blocks is approximately 33
percent, and supplements the 740,000-acre  deepwater Nova Scotia parcel acquired
in 1998.  Chevron's Western Canadian  operations produced 44,500 barrels per day
of crude oil and  natural  gas  liquids  in 1999.  Chevron's  major  development
efforts in 1999 focused on natural gas,  primarily in the area west of Kaybob in
Alberta, and Fort Liard in the Northwest Territories. During 1999, a significant
natural  gas  discovery  was made  northwest  of Fort  Liard.  Plans  are  being
developed for the construction of production and  transportation  facilities and
additional  wells to permit first  production  by May 2000. A second  successful
well was  completed in January 2000 and is expected to begin  production  in the
fourth quarter 2000.

Australia:  Chevron's  primary  interests in  Australia  involve two major joint
ventures.  Average total field production  during 1999 from the North Rankin and
Goodwyn  fields in the North West Shelf  (NWS)  project,  where  Chevron  has an
approximate  17 percent  interest,  was 1.5  billion  cubic feet of gas per day.
Total condensate  production  averaged 100,000 barrels per day.  Additionally in
1999, total production from the Wanaea/Cossack  oil development  averaged 35,000
barrels per day. The second joint venture is in permit areas,  which include the
Barrow Island and  Thevenard  Island oil fields and the  undeveloped  Gorgon gas
field formerly operated by West Australian Petroleum Pty. Ltd. (WAPET).  Chevron
assumed  operatorship  of  these  areas  from  WAPET  in  February  2000 and has
interests  varying between 25 and 50 percent.  During 1999, total oil production
from the WAPET area averaged  30,000 barrels per day with Chevron's  share about
8,000 barrels per day. The WAPET joint venture made two significant  natural gas
discoveries in the offshore  permit area WA-267-P where Chevron has a 25 percent
interest - Geryon and  Orthrus.  In  addition  to the two major  joint  ventures
above,  Chevron  has  interests  in the  northern  Browse  Basin,  and three new
deepwater  exploration  permits  recently awarded in the offshore Canning Basin,
near the NWS joint  venture  acreage.  Chevron's  interests  vary from  about 17
percent to 25 percent.

Indonesia:  Chevron's  interests  in  Indonesia  are  managed  by two  affiliate
companies,  P.T.  Caltex Pacific  Indonesia  (CPI) and Amoseas  Indonesia  (AI).
Chevron  owns 50  percent  of  both  companies.  CPI  manages  all of  Chevron's
interests in four production sharing contracts in Indonesia. Chevron's net share
of total production of 745,000



                                      -11-


barrels per day in 1999 was  182,000  barrels  per day.  The Duri  Field,  under
steamflood  since 1985, is the largest  steamflood  in the world.  AI is a power
generation  company,  which  operates the Darajat  geothermal  contract  area in
central Java and is  constructing a cogeneration  facility to support CPI's Duri
steamflood.  AI's  geothermal  field  continued to provide steam to the national
power company plant that produces  electricity for the Java power grid.  Further
expansion of the Darajat  geothermal  reservoir complex is planned.  The Darajat
reservoir has proved reserves of steam to generate 350 megawatts for 30 years.

China:  Chevron  has an  interest  in two blocks  (16/08 and 16/19) in the South
China Sea and three blocks (02/31, 06/17 and Zhanhuadong) in the Bohai Gulf area
of the North  China  Basin.  Chevron  has an interest of about 16 percent in the
producing  Block 16/08,  which produced an average of 101,600 barrels of oil per
day in 1999. The newest field in the group, HZ/32-5, was brought on stream early
in 1999  with  three  wells  producing  at a  combined  rate in excess of 30,000
barrels  of oil per day.  Chevron  plans to  complete  its  current  exploration
contractual  commitments in 2000 by drilling two more exploration wells on Block
02/31, one on Block 06/17, two in Zhanhuadong, and one on Block 16/19.

Thailand:  Chevron acquired Rutherford-Moran Oil Corporation and its approximate
46  percent  interest  in Gulf of  Thailand  Block  B8/32 in March  1999.  This,
combined with acquisition of a majority interest in Palang Sophon Limited,  gave
Chevron  an  approximate  52  percent  interest  Block  B8/32.  Chevron  assumed
operatorship  of Block B8/32 in October  1999.  Chevron  also holds a 33 percent
interest in three  adjacent  exploration  blocks,  which are currently  inactive
pending  resolution  of a  Thailand-Cambodia  border  dispute.  Block  B8/32  is
currently producing oil and natural gas from two fields, Tantawan and Benchamas.
In December 1999, the Tantawan Field was producing at a rate of 65 million cubic
feet of gas per day and  9,600  barrels  of oil per  day.  Benchamas  Field  was
brought  on-stream in June 1999 and was  producing at a rate of 77 million cubic
feet of gas  per day and  13,000  barrels  of oil per day as of  December  1999.
Production from the Benchamas Field reached 25,000 barrels of oil per day and 85
million cubic feet of gas per day during the first quarter 2000.

Argentina:  Chevron acquired  Petrolera  Argentina San Jorge,  S.A. in September
1999 establishing its first exploration and production position in Argentina. At
year-end  1999,  properties in the Neuquen and Austral  Basins were producing at
combined  gross rates of 85,000  barrels of oil  equivalent per day. New oil and
gas  discoveries in 1999 increased  proved  reserves to over 200 million barrels
oil  equivalent.  In addition to the Argentina  acreage,  San Jorge's  interests
included five million acres of exploration  licenses in key petroleum  basins in
Colombia,  Ecuador,  Peru, Bolivia, and Chile. Included in the acquisition was a
14 percent  interest  in  Oldeval,  a major  export  pipeline  to the  Argentine
Atlantic coast. Additional sales through the Transandino pipeline to the Pacific
coast make San Jorge Argentina's second largest petroleum exporter.

Venezuela:  Chevron is the operator and has a 27 percent  interest in the LL-652
Field in Lake Maracaibo. The LL-652 Field objective is to substantially increase
production over the next few years though the application of secondary  recovery
technologies.  The field was producing  12,500 barrels of oil per day at the end
of 1999. Chevron holds a 27 percent interest in the LL-652 project.  Chevron and
Petroleos  de  Venezuela,  S.A.  (PDVSA)  formed an  alliance in 1995 to further
develop  the  Boscan  oil field and  provide  heavy  crude oil to Chevron in the
United States through several  independent supply agreements.  Chevron took over
operations  and  production  of the  Boscan  Field in 1996  under  an  operating
services agreement. Chevron receives operating expense reimbursement and capital
recovery,   plus  interest  and  an  incentive  fee.  Due  to  Venezuela's  OPEC
restrictions,  production was  constrained to 92,000 barrels per day for much of
1999,  down from 105,000  barrels per day at the start of the year.  Chevron has
not recorded any reserve quantities  related to the service agreement  involving
the Boscan Field.



                                      -12-


       Petroleum - Natural Gas Liquids
       -------------------------------

The company  sells  natural gas liquids from its  producing  operations  under a
variety of contractual arrangements. In the United States, the majority of sales
are to the company's Dynegy Inc. affiliate,  in which it has a 28 percent equity
interest.  Dynegy and Chevron have entered into  long-term  strategic  alliances
whereby Dynegy purchases  substantially  all natural gas and natural gas liquids
produced by Chevron in the United States, excluding Alaska, and supplies natural
gas and natural gas liquids feedstocks to Chevron's U.S. refineries and chemical
plants.  Outside the United States,  natural gas liquids sales take place in the
company's  Canadian  upstream  operations,  with lower  sales  levels in Africa,
Australia and Europe. In 1999, U.S. sales volumes, including the company's share
of Dynegy sales,  comprised  about 70 percent of the company's  total  worldwide
natural gas liquids sales volume.

Chevron's  total  third-party  natural gas liquids  sales  volumes over the last
three years are reported in the following table:




       Petroleum - Refining
       --------------------

Based on refinery statistics published in the December 20, 1999 issue of The Oil
and Gas Journal,  Chevron had the third  largest  U.S.  refining  capacity.  The
company's 50 percent owned Caltex  Corporation  affiliate owned or had interests
in 11 operating refineries: Australia (2), Thailand (2), Korea, the Philippines,
New Zealand,  Singapore,  Pakistan, Kenya and South Africa. In 1999, Caltex sold
its interest in two Japanese refineries owned by Koa Oil Company Limited.

Distillation  operating  capacity  utilization  in 1999,  adjusted for sales and
closures,  averaged  91  percent in both the United  States  (including  asphalt
plants) and  worldwide  (including  affiliate),  compared with 83 percent in the
United  States and 86 percent  worldwide in the prior year.  Chevron's  capacity
utilization at its U.S. fuels refineries averaged 96 percent in 1999, up from 86
percent in 1998.  Chevron's capacity utilization of its U.S. cracking and coking
facilities, which are the primary facilities used to convert heavier products to
gasoline  and other  light  products,  averaged  78 percent in 1999,  up from 75
percent in the year earlier.  The company processed  imported and domestic crude
oil in its U.S. refining operations. Imported crude oil accounted for 66 percent
of Chevron's U.S. refinery inputs in 1999.



                                      -13-


The daily  refinery  inputs over the last three years for the  company's and its
Caltex affiliate's refineries are shown in the following table:




       Petroleum - Refined Products Marketing
       --------------------------------------

Product Sales: The company and its Caltex Corporation affiliate market petroleum
products throughout much of the world. The principal  trademarks for identifying
these products are "Chevron" and "Caltex."

The  following  table shows the company's and its  affiliates'  refined  product
sales volumes,  excluding  intercompany  sales,  over the past three years.  The
company's  Canadian sales volumes  consist of refined product sales primarily in
British Columbia by the company's  Chevron Canada Limited  subsidiary.  The 1999
volumes  reported for "Other  International"  relate to  international  sales of
aviation and marine  fuels,  lubricants,  gas oils and other  refined  products,
primarily in Latin America,  Asia and Europe.  The equity in  affiliates'  sales
consists of (1) the company's interest in Caltex Corporation, which maintains an
interest  in about  7,800  service  stations  (of which  about 4,700 are branded
Caltex),  operating in more than 60 countries in the Asia-Pacific region, Africa
and the Middle East, and (2) the company's interest in Fuel and Marine Marketing
LLC, which was  established in late 1998 and markets marine fuel and lubricating
oils in approximately 100 countries worldwide.




                                      -14-





Retail Outlets: In the United States, the company supplies,  directly or through
jobbers,  more than 7,900 motor vehicle retail outlets, of which about 1,500 are
company-owned  or -leased  motor  vehicle  stations,  and about 560 aircraft and
marine retail outlets. The company's gasoline market area is concentrated in the
southern,  southwestern  and western states.  According to the Lundberg Share of
Market  Report,  Chevron  ranks  among the top three  gasoline  marketers  in 15
states,  and is the top marketer of aviation fuel in the western  United States.
During 1999,  the company  continued to  rationalize  its  marketing  network by
divesting small,  lower-performing sites and investing in larger,  higher-volume
facilities.

The company has continued to focus on a growing demand for convenience goods and
services.  In 1999, the company  experienced an overall  company-operated  gross
revenue growth from these areas of nearly 28 percent.

In Canada - primarily British Columbia - the company's branded products are sold
in nearly 200 stations (all owned or leased).



                                      -15-


       Petroleum - Transportation
       --------------------------

Tankers: Chevron's controlled seagoing fleet at December 31, 1999, is summarized
in the  following  table.  All  controlled  tankers  were  utilized in 1999.  In
addition, at any given time, the company has 30 to 40 vessels under charter on a
term or voyage basis.





Federal law requires  that cargo  transported  between U.S.  ports be carried in
ships built and  registered  in the United  States,  owned and  operated by U.S.
entities and manned by U.S.  crews.  At year-end  1999,  the company's U.S. flag
fleet was engaged primarily in transporting  crude oil from Alaska to refineries
on the West Coast and Hawaii,  refined  products between the Gulf Coast and East
Coast, and refined products from California  refineries to terminals on the West
Coast, Alaska and Hawaii.

The Federal Oil  Pollution  Act of 1990  requires the  scheduled  phase-out,  by
year-end 2010, of all single hull tankers  trading to U.S. ports or transferring
cargo in waters within the U.S.  Exclusive  Economic Zone.  This has resulted in
the utilization of more costly double-hull  tankers. By the end of 1999, Chevron
was  operating a total of 13 double  hull  tankers.  Chevron  has been  actively
involved in the Marine Preservation Association,  a non-profit organization that
funds the  Marine  Spill  Response  Corporation  (MSRC).  MSRC owns the  largest
inventory  of oil spill  response  equipment  in the  nation and  operates  five
strategically located U.S. coastal regional centers. In addition, the company is
a member of many oil-spill  response  cooperatives in areas in which it operates
around the world.

At year-end 1999,  two of the company's  controlled  international  flag vessels
were assigned for use as floating storage vessels.  The remaining  international
flag vessels were engaged  primarily in  transporting  crude oil from the Middle
East, Indonesia,  Mexico and West Africa to ports in the United States,  Europe,
and Asia. Refined products also were transported by tanker worldwide.

During 1999, the company  completed the sale of seven vessels and chartered back
three.  Additionally,  in 1999 the  company  took  delivery  of two new  308,500
deadweight ton, double-hull tankers. These tankers are the second and third in a
series of four new double-hull tankers being built in Korea. The last vessel was
delivered in February 2000.  Chevron will operate these tankers under  long-term
bareboat charters.

Pipelines:  Chevron owns and operates an extensive  system of crude oil, refined
products, chemicals, natural gas liquids and natural gas pipelines in the United
States.  The company  also has direct or indirect  interests  in other U.S.  and
international  pipelines.  The  company's  ownership  interests in pipelines are
summarized in the following table:



                                      -16-




       Chemicals
       ---------

The company's  chemicals  operations  manufacture and market  petrochemicals and
petrochemical-based products for industrial use and chemical additives for fuels
and  lubricants.   At  year-end  1999,   Chevron  owned  and  operated  15  U.S.
manufacturing  facilities  in nine states,  owned  manufacturing  facilities  in
Brazil,  France,  Singapore  and  Mexico,  and owned a  majority  interest  in a
manufacturing facility in Japan.  Additionally,  Chevron has a 50 percent equity
interest in a petrochemicals facility in Saudi Arabia.

In February 2000,  Chevron and Phillips  Petroleum Co. signed a letter of intent
and exclusivity  agreement to combine most of their chemicals  businesses into a
joint venture. Each company will own 50 percent of the joint venture, which will
have  assets of more than $6  billion  and would have had 1999 sales of about $6
billion.  The combination is subject to final approval of the companies'  boards
of directors,  signing of definitive agreements and regulatory review, which are
expected to be complete by mid-2000.

In 1999,  the  company  commenced  commercial  operation  of a fuel and lube oil
additives manufacturing facility in Singapore.  The plant has an annual capacity
of approximately 100,000 metric tons of additives.  In Saudi Arabia, the company
and its joint venture  partner,  the Saudi  Industrial  Venture  Capital  Group,
completed  construction of a petrochemicals complex expected to produce annually
approximately  480,000 tons of benzene,  using the company's  proprietary Aromax
technology, and 220,000 tons of cyclohexane.

In 2000,  the company plans to complete a grass roots normal alpha olefins plant
at Cedar Bayou, Texas. In China, start-up of a 100,000 tons per year polystyrene
plant is planned for mid-2000.  This plant  represents the company's  entry into
the chemicals business in China.

The   following   table  shows  1999   revenues  and  the  number  of  owned  or
majority-owned   chemicals  manufacturing   facilities  and  combined  operating
capacities as of December 31, 1999.




                                      -17-




       Coal
       ----

Coal:  The  Company's  wholly owned coal mining and  marketing  subsidiary,  The
Pittsburg & Midway Coal Mining Co. (P&M), owned four surface and two underground
mines at year-end 1999. All mines were operating at that time with the exception
of the Sebree Mine in Kentucky,  which was idled in November 1998. P&M also owns
an approximate 30 percent  interest in  Inter-American  Coal Holding N.V., which
has interests in mining operations in Venezuela.

In the second half of 1998, the company began actively marketing its entire coal
business for sale. In the first quarter 1999,  P&M sold its 33 percent  interest
in the Black  Beauty  Coal  Company.  In the fourth  quarter  1999,  the Company
discontinued  negotiations to sell the Company's remaining coal operations,  and
the assets are no longer held for sale.

Sales and other  operating  revenues in 1999 were $366 million,  a decrease of 9
percent  from 1998.  Sales of coal from P&M's  wholly  owned  mines and from its
affiliates  were 16.0  million  tons,  a decrease of 31 percent  from 1998.  The
average  selling  price for coal from mines owned and operated by P&M was $22.73
per ton in 1999,  compared  with $23.21 per ton in 1998. At year-end  1999,  P&M
controlled  approximately  398 million tons of developed  and  undeveloped  coal
reserves, including significant reserves of environmentally desirable low-sulfur
fuel.

       Electronic Commerce and Technology
       ----------------------------------

Electronic  Business:  During 1999, Chevron  implemented a new growth initiative
aimed  at  developing  business  opportunities   capitalizing  on  Internet  Web
technology.   The  company  established  a  subsidiary  to  leverage  electronic
opportunities  in Chevron's  business  units.  Additionally,  the new subsidiary
plans to develop new Internet  "business to business" (B2B) ideas for use in the
company's  own  operations  and for  potential  development  with other  outside
investors.   During  the  first   quarter  2000,   the  company   announced  its
participation  in a  number  of  B2B  joint  ventures.  These  include  Internet
marketplaces of goods and services for the oil and gas industry, and convenience
store and small  business  retailers.  The company  plans to develop  additional
Internet commerce opportunities in the future, for use in its own operations and
for offer to third party investors.

New Technology: Chevron also established a technology ventures unit during 1999.
The company plans to focus on making equity  investments in a broad portfolio of
emerging  technology   companies  with  expertise  in  information   technology,
materials sciences and biotechnology.  These investments will be directed toward
areas where the company will potentially be a customer.

       Research and Environmental Protection
       -------------------------------------

Research:  The company's principal research laboratories are at Richmond and San
Ramon,  California and Houston,  Texas. In February 1999, the company  relocated
most of the research activities  previously carried out at La Habra,  California
to the San Francisco Bay Area. The Richmond  facility engages in research on new
and improved refinery processes,  develops petroleum and chemicals products, and
provides technical services for the company and its customers. The San Ramon and
Houston  facilities  conduct research and provide  technical support




                                      -18-


in geology, geophysics, and oil production methods such as hydraulics,  assisted
recovery  programs  and  drilling,  including  offshore  drilling.  Employees in
subsidiaries  engaged primarily in research activities at year-end 1999 numbered
more than 900, with  approximately 500 additional  employees working on research
activities in the company's other operating units.

Chevron's research and development expenses were $182 million,  $187 million and
$179 million for the years 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

Licenses  under the company's  patents are generally made available to others in
the  petroleum  and  chemicals  industries,  but the  company  does  not  derive
significant income from licensing patents.

Environmental Protection:  Virtually all aspects of the company's businesses are
subject to various  federal,  state and local  environmental,  health and safety
laws and  regulations.  These  regulatory  requirements  continue  to change and
increase in both number and complexity,  and govern not only the manner in which
the company  conducts its  operations,  but also the products it sells.  Chevron
expects more  environmental-related  regulations  in the countries  where it has
operations.  Most of the costs of complying with the myriad laws and regulations
pertaining to its  operations are embedded in the normal costs of conducting its
business.

In 1999, the company's U.S.  capitalized  environmental  expenditures  were $121
million,   representing   approximately   7  percent  of  the  company's   total
consolidated  U.S.  capital and  exploratory  expenditures.  The company's  U.S.
capitalized  environmental  expenditures  were $192  million and $177 million in
1998 and 1997,  respectively.  These environmental  expenditures include capital
outlays to retrofit  existing  facilities,  as well as those associated with new
facilities.  The  expenditures are  predominantly  in the petroleum  segment and
relate mostly to air and water quality  projects and activities at the company's
refineries, oil and gas producing facilities and marketing facilities. For 2000,
the company  estimates  U.S.  capital  expenditures  for  environmental  control
facilities  will be $137 million.  The future annual capital costs of fulfilling
this commitment are uncertain and will be governed by several factors  including
future changes to regulatory requirements.

Further  information  on  environmental  matters and their impact on Chevron are
contained in  Management's  Discussion  and Analysis of Financial  Condition and
Results  of  Operation  on page FS-4 of this  Annual  Report on Form  10-K.  The
company's 1999 environmental  expenditures,  remediation provisions and year-end
environmental  reserves are discussed on page FS-4 of this Annual Report on Form
10-K.


                                      -19-


Item 2. Properties

The location and character of the company's oil, natural gas and coal properties
and  its  refining,  marketing,  transportation  and  chemicals  facilities  are
described  above  under  Item  1.  Business.  Information  in  response  to  the
Securities  Exchange  Act  Industry  Guide  No.  2  ("Disclosure  of Oil and Gas
Operations")  is also  contained  in Item 1 and in Tables I through  VI on pages
FS-32 to FS-37 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Note 13,  "Properties,  Plant
and Equipment," to the company's financial statements contained on page FS-25 of
this Annual Report on Form 10-K presents  information on the company's gross and
net  properties,  plant and equipment,  and related  additions and  depreciation
expense, by geographic area and operating segment for 1999, 1998 and 1997.

Item 3. Legal Proceedings

A.       Cities Service Co. v. The Gulf Oil Corporation
         Oklahoma State District Court for the District of Tulsa.
This matter,  previously  reported as Item 3A of company's Annual Report on Form
10-K  for the  year  ended  December  31,  1998,  and  amended  in Item 1 of the
company's  Amended  Quarterly  Report for the period ended June 30, 1999 and its
Quarterly Report for the period ended September 30, 1999, was resolved  pursuant
to a settlement  agreement  entered into on November 18, 1999. OXY USA agreed to
accept  $775  million  in full  satisfaction  of all  liability  related  to the
judgment and the claims asserted in the lawsuit.  In accord with the settlement,
Chevron's  certiorari  petition was dismissed on November 18, 1999. Chevron made
the  settlement  payment  on  December  1, 1999,  and OXY USA  executed a formal
satisfaction  of the judgment that same day. Also on December 1, 1999, the Tulsa
District Court entered an order exonerating and releasing the supersedeas bond.

B.       Rangely Field - Clean Water Act.
In 1999,  EPA made a civil penalty  demand of $1.5 million under the Clean Water
Act  concerning  spills that have  occurred at the  company's  operations at the
Rangely Field, Colorado.

C.       El Segundo Refinery - Clean Air Act.
In 1998,  EPA issued a Notice of Violation  alleging Clean Air Act violations at
the company's El Segundo, California,  refinery.

D.       Richmond Refinery - VOC emissions.
The Bay Area Air Quality Management District has initiated an enforcement action
against the company's  Richmond,  California,  refinery  associated with alleged
violations  of the  District's  rules  relating to fugitive VOC  emissions  from
connections.

E.       Hawaii Refining and Marketing Facilities - Clean Air Act.
The Department of Justice has made civil penalty demands totaling  approximately
$1.5 million  alleging  violations of the Clean Air Act by the company's  Hawaii
refinery and its associated Hilo and Kahului terminals.

F.       Perth Amboy Refinery - Clean Air Act.
The company has agreed to pay $145,000 to settle  allegations  that it failed to
monitor  certain  emissions as required by the Clean Air Act at its Perth Amboy,
New Jersey, refinery.

Other previously  reported legal proceedings have been settled,  not pursued, or
the issues resolved as not to merit further reporting.

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

No matter was submitted  during the fourth quarter of 1999 to a vote of security
holders through the solicitation of proxies or otherwise.


                                      -20-


              Executive Officers of the Registrant at March 1, 2000

Name and Age        Executive Office Held           Major Area of Responsibility
- ------------------  ----------------------------    ----------------------------

D.J. O'Reilly  53   Chairman of the Board since     Chief Executive Officer
                    2000                            Human Resources
                    Director since 1998
                    Executive Committee Member
                    since 1994

R.H. Matzke    63   Vice-Chairman of the Board      Worldwide Exploration and
                    since 2000                      Production Activities
                    Director since 1997
                    President of Chevron Overseas
                    Petroleum Inc.from 1989 to 2000
                    Executive Committee Member
                    since 1993

J.N. Sullivan  62   Vice-Chairman of the Board      Worldwide Refining,Marketing
                    since 1989                      and Transportation
                    Director since 1988             Activities,
                    Executive Committee Member      Chemicals, Real Estate,
                    since 1986                      Environmental, Coal,
                                                    Administrative Services,
                                                    Aircraft Services

D.W. Callahan  57   Vice-President since 1999       Chemicals
                    President of Chevron Chemical
                    Company since 1999
                    Executive Committee Member
                    since 1999

H.D. Hinman    59   Vice-President and General      Law
                    Counsel since 1993
                    Executive Committee Member
                    since 1993

G.L. Kirkland  49   President of Chevron U.S.A.     North American
                    Production Company since 2000   Exploration and Production
                    Executive Committee Member
                    since 2000

M.R. Klitten   55   Vice-President and Chief        Finance
                    Financial Officer since 1989
                    Executive Committee Member
                    since 1989

P.J. Robertson 53   Vice-President since 1994       Overseas Exploration and
                    President of Chevron Overseas   Production
                    Petroleum Inc. since 2000
                    Executive Committee Member
                    since 1997

P.A. Woertz    46   Vice-President since 1998       U.S. Refining, Marketing,
                    President of Chevron Products   Logistics and Trading
                    Company since 1998
                    Executive Committee Member
                    since 1998

The Executive Officers of the Corporation  consist of the Chairman of the Board,
the  Vice-Chairmen  of the Board, and such other officers of the Corporation who
are  either  Directors  or  members  of the  Executive  Committee,  or are chief
executive  officers of principal  business units.  Except as noted below, all of
the Corporation's Executive Officers have held one or more of such positions for
more than five years.

D.W. Callahan  - Senior Vice President, Chevron Chemical Company - 1991
               - President, Chevron Chemical Company - 1999



                                      -21-


G.L. Kirkland  - General Manager, Production, Chevron Nigeria Limited - 1992
               - General Manager, Asset Management,
                 Chevron Nigeria Limited - 1996
               - Chairman and Managing Director, Chevron Nigeria Limited - 1996
               - President, Chevron USA Production Company - 2000

P.J. Robertson - Vice-President for Strategic Planning and Quality,
                 Chevron Corporation - 1994
               - Executive Vice-President of Chevron U.S.A. Production
                 Company - 1996
               - Vice-President, Chevron Corporation and
                 President of Chevron U.S.A. Production Company - 1997

P.A. Woertz    - President, Chevron Canada Limited - 1993
               - President, Chevron International Oil Company - 1996
               - Vice President, Logistics and Trading, Chevron
                 Products Company - 1996
               - President, Chevron Products Company - 1998

K.T. Derr, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer since 1989, retired
on December 31, 1999.


                                     PART II

Item 5. Market  for the  Registrant's  Common  Equity and  Related  Stockholder
        Matters

The information on Chevron's  common stock market prices,  dividends,  principal
exchanges on which the stock is traded and number of  stockholders  of record is
contained in the Quarterly  Results and Stock Market Data  tabulations,  on page
FS-11 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Item 6. Selected Financial Data

The selected  financial  data for years 1995 through 1999 are  presented on page
FS-38 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Item 7. Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
        of Operations

The  index  to  Financial   Statements,   Supplementary  Data  and  Management's
Discussion  and Analysis of Financial  Condition  and Results of  Operations  is
presented on page FS-1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

The  index  to  Financial   Statements,   Supplementary  Data  and  Management's
Discussion  and Analysis of Financial  Condition  and Results of  Operations  is
presented on page FS-1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Item 9. Changes  in and  Disagreements  with  Accountants  on  Accounting  and
        Financial Disclosure

None.


                                      -22-


                                    PART III

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

The  information  on  Directors  appearing on pages 4 through 7 of the Notice of
Annual  Meeting of  Stockholders  and Proxy  Statement  dated March 22, 2000, is
incorporated  herein  by  reference  in this  Annual  Report on Form  10-K.  See
Executive Officers of the Registrant on pages 21 and 22 of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K for information about executive officers of the company.

Item 405 of  Regulation  S-K calls for  disclosure  of any known late  filing or
failure by an insider to file a report  required  by Section 16 of the  Exchange
Act. This  disclosure is contained on page 11 of the Notice of Annual Meeting of
Stockholders and Proxy Statement dated March 22, 2000 under the heading "Section
16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting  Compliance," and is incorporated herein by
reference  in this  Annual  Report on Form  10-K.  Chevron  believes  all filing
requirements were complied with during 1999.

Item 11. Executive Compensation

The  information  on pages 12  through  19 of the  Notice of Annual  Meeting  of
Stockholders and Proxy Statement dated March 22, 2000, is incorporated herein by
reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

The information on page 11 of the Notice of Annual Meeting of  Stockholders  and
Proxy Statement dated March 22, 2000 appearing under the heading "Directors' and
Executive  Officers' Stock  Ownership," is  incorporated  herein by reference in
this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

There were no relationships or related  transactions  requiring disclosure under
Item 404 of Regulation S-K.

                                     PART IV

Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K

(a) The following documents are filed as part of this report:

    (1) Financial Statements:                                     Page (s)

          Report of Independent Accountants                       FS-12

          Consolidated Statement of Income
            for the three years ended December 31, 1999           FS-13

          Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
           for the three years ended December 31, 1999            FS-13

          Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31,
            1999 and 1998                                         FS-14

          Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
            for the three years ended December 31, 1999           FS-15

          Consolidated Statement of Stockholders' Equity
            for the three years ended December 31, 1999           FS-16

          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements              FS-17 to FS-31



                                      -23-


    (2) Financial Statement Schedules:

          Caltex Group of Companies Combined
            Financial Statements                                  C-1 to C-24

         The Combined Financial  Statements of the Caltex Group of Companies
         are filed as part of this report. All schedules are omitted because
         they are not applicable or the required  information is included in
         the combined financial statements or notes thereto.

    (3) Exhibits:

         The Exhibit  Index on pages 26 and 27 of this Annual Report on Form
         10-K lists the exhibits that are filed as part of this report.

(b)  Reports on Form 8-K:

    (1)  A Current Report on Form 8-K, dated November 18, 1999, was filed by
         the company on November 18, 1999. In this report, Chevron announced
         that it had  reached an  agreement  with  Occidental  Petroleum  to
         settle the Cities Service litigation.

    (2)  A Current  Report on Form 8-K, dated January 18, 2000, was filed by
         the  company on January 18,  2000.  In this  report  Chevron  filed
         restated financial  statements for the three- and six-month periods
         ended June 30,  1999 and the three- and nine- month  periods  ended
         September 30, 1999. These statements were restated to recognize the
         initial  ownership  of certain  marketable  equity  securities  and
         subsequent unrealized gains on these securities.

    (3)  A Current Report on Form 8-K, dated March 6, 2000, was filed by the
         company on March 6, 2000.  In this report, Chevron filed the company's
         1999 audited financial statements.

    (4)  An  amended  current  report on Form 8-K,  dated  March 7, 2000 was
         filed by the  company on March 7,  2000.  In this  amended  report,
         Chevron  re-filed the company's 1999 audited  financial  statements
         previously  filed in a Current  Report on Form 8-K,  dated March 6,
         2000, filed on March 6, 2000.




                                      -24-


                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the  requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities  Exchange
Act of 1934,  the  registrant  has duly  caused  this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned,  thereunto duly authorized,  on the 29th day of March
2000.

                                       Chevron Corporation

                               By                DAVID J. O'REILLY*
                                       ----------------------------------------
                                       David J. O'Reilly, Chairman of the Board

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following  persons on behalf of the  registrant and
in the capacities indicated on the 29th day of March 2000.

Principal Executive Officers (And Directors)       Directors


             DAVID J. O'REILLY*                    SAMUEL H. ARMACOST*
- ---------------------------------------------      -------------------------
David J. O'Reilly, Chairman of the Board           Samuel H. Armacost

             RICHARD H. MATZKE*                    SAM GINN *
- ---------------------------------------------      -------------------------
Richard H. Matzke, Vice-Chairman of the Board      Sam Ginn

             JAMES N. SULLIVAN*                    CARLA A. HILLS *
- ---------------------------------------------      -------------------------
James N. Sullivan, Vice-Chairman of the Board      Carla A. Hills

                                                   J. BENNETT JOHNSTON*
                                                   -------------------------
                                                   J. Bennett Johnston

                                                   CHARLES M. PIGOTT*
                                                   -------------------------
Principal Financial Officer                        Charles M. Pigott

            MARTIN R. KLITTEN*                     CONDOLEEZZA RICE*
- ---------------------------------------------      -------------------------
Martin R. Klitten, Vice-President                  Condoleezza Rice
 and Chief Financial Officer
                                                   FRANK A. SHRONTZ*
                                                   -------------------------
Principal Accounting Officer                       Frank A. Shrontz

            STEPHEN J. CROWE*                      CHANG-LIN TIEN *
- ---------------------------------------------      -------------------------
Stephen J. Crowe, Comptroller                      Chang-Lin Tien

                                                   JOHN A. YOUNG*
                                                   -------------------------
                                                   John A. Young


*By:             /s/   LYDIA I. BEEBE
       --------------------------------------
           Lydia I. Beebe, Attorney-in-Fact





                                      -25-



                                  EXHIBIT INDEX
Exhibit
   No.                             Description
- --------  ----------------------------------------------------------------------
   3.1    Restated  Certificate of  Incorporation  of Chevron  Corporation,
          dated  November 23, 1998,  filed as Exhibit 3.1 to Chevron
          Corporation's  Annual  Report  on Form 10-K for 1998  dated  March 31,
          1999, and incorporated by reference herein.

   3.2    By-Laws of Chevron Corporation, as amended November 23, 1998, filed as
          Exhibit 3.2 to Chevron  Corporation's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for
          1998 dated March 31, 1999, and incorporated by reference herein.

   4.1    Rights  Agreement  dated as of  November  23,  1998,  between  Chevron
          Corporation and ChaseMellon  Shareholder  Services  L.L.C.,  as Rights
          Agent, filed as Exhibit 4.1 to Chevron Corporation's Current Report on
          Form  8-K  dated  November  23,  1998,  and  incorporated   herein  by
          reference.

          Pursuant to the Instructions to Exhibits, certain instruments defining
          the rights of holders of long-term debt  securities of the corporation
          and its  consolidated  subsidiaries  are not filed  because  the total
          amount of securities  authorized  under any such  instrument  does not
          exceed 10  percent  of the total  assets  of the  corporation  and its
          subsidiaries  on a consolidated  basis. A copy of such instrument will
          be furnished to the Commission upon request.

  10.1    Management  Incentive  Plan of Chevron  Corporation,  as  amended  and
          restated  effective  October 30, 1996,  filed as Appendix B to Chevron
          Corporation's  Notice  of Annual  Meeting  of  Stockholders  and Proxy
          Statement dated March 21, 1997, and incorporated herein by reference.

  10.2    Chevron  Corporation  Excess Benefit Plan,  amended and restated as of
          July 1, 1996, filed as Exhibit 10 to Chevron  Corporation's  Report on
          Form  10-Q  for  the  quarterly  period  ended  March  31,  1997,  and
          incorporated herein by reference.

  10.3    Supplemental  Pension  Plan of Gulf  Oil  Corporation,  amended  as
          of June  30,  1986,  filed  as  Exhibit  10.4 to  Chevron
          Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for 1986 and incorporated
          herein by reference.

  10.4    Chevron Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Employee  Directors,  as amended
          and restated  effective April 30, 1997, filed as Appendix A to Chevron
          Corporation's  Notice  of Annual  Meeting  of  Stockholders  and Proxy
          Statement dated March 21, 1997, and incorporated herein by reference.

  10.5    Chevron Corporation  Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended and restated
          effective   October  30,   1996,   filed  as  Appendix  C  to  Chevron
          Corporation's  Notice  of Annual  Meeting  of  Stockholders  and Proxy
          Statement dated March 21, 1997, and incorporated herein by reference.

  10.6    Chevron  Corporation  Salary  Deferral Plan for Management  Employees,
          effective   January   1,   1997,   filed  as  Exhibit  10  to  Chevron
          Corporation's  Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June
          30, 1997, and incorporated herein by reference.




                                      -26-


                                  EXHIBIT INDEX
                                   (continued)

Exhibit
   No.                             Description
- --------   --------------------------------------------------------------------

  12.1     Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges (page E-1).

  21.1     Subsidiaries of Chevron Corporation (page E-2).

  23.1     Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (page E-3).

  23.2     Consent of KPMG (page E-4).

  24.1     Powers  of  Attorney  for   directors   and  certain   officers  of
   to      Chevron Corporation, authorizing the signing of the Annual Report
  24.14    on Form 10-K on their behalf.

  27.1     Financial Data Schedule

  99.1     Definitions of Selected Financial Terms (page E-5).

Copies of above exhibits not contained herein are available,  at a fee of $2 per
document,  to any  security  holder  upon  written  request  to the  Secretary's
Department,  Chevron Corporation,  575 Market Street, San Francisco,  California
94105.



                                      -27-


                  INDEX TO MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
            CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA




                                                                     Page(s)
                                                                  -------------

Management's Discussion and Analysis                              FS-2 to FS-11

Quarterly Results and Stock Market Data                           FS-11

Report of Management                                              FS-12

Report of Independent Accountants                                 FS-12

Consolidated Statement of Income                                  FS-13

Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income                    FS-13

Consolidated Balance Sheet                                        FS-14

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows                              FS-15

Consolidated Statement of Stockholders' Equity                    FS-16

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                        FS-17 to FS-31

Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Producing Activities      FS-32 to FS-37

Five-Year Financial Summary                                       FS-38




                                      FS-1


   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
                                   OPERATIONS

1999 KEY INDICATORS
* Net  income  increased 55 percent to $2.070 billion
* Exploration and production operational earnings rose 80 percent
* Average  U.S.  crude oil  realizations  increased  41  percent to $16.11 per
  barrel
* Average U.S. natural gas realizations were up 7 percent to $2.16 per
  thousand cubic feet
* International  liquids production increased for the 10th consecutive year
   - up 4 percent
* Refining, marketing and transportation operational earnings declined 44
  percent on lower margins
* Worldwide net oil and gas reserves additions exceeded production for the
  seventh consecutive year
* Annual  dividends  increased  for the 12th  consecutive  year



Chevron's  net income for 1999 was $2.070  billion,  up 55 percent from 1998 net
income of $1.339  billion,  but 36 percent lower than record  earnings of $3.256
billion in 1997.  Net special  charges of $216 million in 1999  included  losses
from asset write-downs,  environmental  remediation provisions and restructuring
charges,  partially  offset by benefits  from the sale of assets,  net favorable
adjustments for prior years' taxes and litigation  issues and net LIFO inventory
gains. Net special charges in 1998 included a loss provision of $637 million for
litigation,  substantially  all of which pertained to a lawsuit against Gulf Oil
by Cities  Service  filed in 1982 - prior to the  Chevron-Gulf  merger in 1984.

Included in net income were foreign  currency  losses of $38 million in 1999 and
$47  million  in 1998 and gains of $246  million  in 1997.



Net income for the company's  individual  business  segments is discussed in the
Results of  Operations  section.

ENVIRONMENT  AND OUTLOOK
Crude oil prices rose dramatically during most of 1999, after falling to 20-year
lows in late 1998.  The sharp rise in prices was  largely  driven by  agreements
among the Organization of the Petroleum  Exporting  Countries (OPEC) and several
larger non-OPEC  producers to curtail  production.  The spot price of West Texas
Intermediate  (WTI)  benchmark  crude oil  averaged  $19.30 per barrel for 1999,
compared  with $14.38 for 1998 and $20.60 for 1997.  The 1999  year-end WTI spot
price was $25.60.  Fluctuations  in natural gas prices,  on the other hand, were
not as dramatic as crude oil.  The average 1999 Henry Hub spot natural gas price
was $2.27 per  thousand  cubic feet,  up 9 percent from 1998 and down 12 percent
from the 1997 average.

Crude oil prices remained strong in early 2000, but it is uncertain how long the
high price  levels will  continue.  Some  factors  that may affect  future price
changes  include  OPEC's  actions to maintain or change its crude oil production
quotas,  unforeseen supply disruptions,  worldwide inventory levels,  demand for
heating  oil and  natural gas as a result of winter  weather  conditions  in the
Northern Hemisphere,  and the demand for refined products reflecting the overall
strength of the world  economies.  High crude oil prices  increase the company's
revenues and earnings in exploration and production operations.  However, higher
crude oil prices  could  adversely  affect  financial  results in the  refining,
marketing and chemicals businesses if higher feedstock costs cannot be recovered
in the prices of finished products.

The company  continues to focus on cost control in all of its businesses to help
sustain  Chevron's  competitiveness  worldwide - regardless of commodity  price
levels. In 1999,  Chevron's  initiatives to eliminate $500 million from its cost
structure were very successful.  Operating  companies and corporate  departments
were  streamlined,  and by mid-2000 staff reductions of approximately 10 percent
from year-end 1998 levels will have been  achieved.  Successful  containment  of
costs and  improved  operating  cash flows  during  1999  enabled the company to
maintain a robust  capital  spending  program  during the recent period of price
volatility.  Maintaining a consistent  level of capital  spending - while other
competitors  were  cutting  back  because  of low  commodity  prices - gave the
company an advantage with the rebound in crude oil prices.

SIGNIFICANT  DEVELOPMENTS
Chevron's worldwide oil and equivalent-gas  (OEG) production was up 3 percent in
1999, with international net OEG production increasing 7 percent. Chevron's 1999
worldwide  oil-equivalent  barrels of net  proved  reserves  additions  exceeded
production for the seventh consecutive year. The company's reserves  replacement
was 108 percent of production for 1999, including sales and acquisitions.

Key  events  during  1999  and  early  2000  to  capture   profitable  growth
opportunities follow.

Upstream Acquisitions
Chevron  made two  acquisitions  in 1999 that will help  sustain  the  company's
growth in international exploration and production. The September acquisition of
Petrolera  Argentina  San Jorge  S.A.,  coupled  with the award in early 2000 of
rights to partner with Petrobras in a 50-50 exploration venture in two promising
deepwater blocks offshore Brazil, were significant steps in the company's Latin




                                      FS-2


America growth strategy.  The March purchase of Rutherford-Moran Oil Corporation
and the assumption of the operatorship of Block B8/32 offshore Thailand provided
an entry into the natural gas market in Southeast  Asia.  The company  began new
production  from  the  Benchamas  Field  offshore  Thailand  and  announced  new
discoveries in prospects from both of these acquisitions.

Angola
In December,  oil production started at the  Chevron-operated,  31 percent-owned
Kuito Field, Angola's first deepwater production from Block 14. After the recent
successful  completion  of appraisal  wells in the Benguela and Belize Fields in
Block 14,  options  for the  development  of these  areas are under  study.  The
company also began  production from the Banzala Field, in the Block 0 concession
adjacent to Block 14. These developments help move Chevron closer to meeting its
objective of boosting  production from its Angolan operations to 600,000 barrels
per day by 2002 from a 1999 year-end level of 460,000 barrels per day.

Nigeria
The  company  added 85 million  barrels  of proved  oil-equivalent  reserves  in
Nigeria  during  1999.  Operationally,  Chevron  is  taking  an  active  role to
eliminate  flaring  of  natural  gas  from  production  facilities  in  Nigeria,
mitigating the  environmental  effects and  monetizing  the extracted  resource.
Chevron was named  Managing  Sponsor of the West African Gas  Pipeline,  a joint
venture among six energy companies to develop a 600-mile pipeline that runs from
gas producing  and  processing  facilities in Nigeria to Ghana,  Benin and Togo.
Also, an agreement was signed with Sasol Synfuels  International to create a new
global joint venture for gas-to-liquids (GTL) technology. Preliminary design and
engineering continue for a GTL facility in Nigeria that will convert natural gas
into synthetic liquid fuels for further processing into commercial products.

Deepwater Gulf of  Mexico
Chevron began  producing  from its first two  deepwater  projects in the Gulf of
Mexico - Genesis and Gemini.  Gross  oil-equivalent  production  from  Genesis,
operated and 57  percent-owned  by Chevron,  reached  47,000  barrels per day by
year-end.  Gross  oil-equivalent  production  from the 40  percent-owned  Gemini
project  reached 35,000  barrels per day.  Evaluation of options is under way to
develop a third  Gulf of  Mexico  deepwater  project,  Typhoon.  Chevron  is the
operator and 50 percent owner of Typhoon.

Caspian Sea Region
Gross liquids  production by Tengizchevroil  (TCO), 45 percent-owned by Chevron,
averaged  214,000  barrels per day in 1999,  an increase of 14 percent over 1998
average  production.  While expanding  production,  TCO's employees  surpassed 6
million work hours without a lost-time  injury.  Chevron's  approximate share of
proved  oil-equivalent  reserves added in 1999 for the Tengiz and Korolev fields
was 230 million  barrels.  Construction  of a pipeline  by the Caspian  Pipeline
Consortium (CPC) continues on schedule. CPC shareholders approved a $1.3 billion
budget and work plan for 2000 and began  awarding  construction  contracts.  The
pipeline,  15 percent  owned by Chevron,  will deliver crude oil from the Tengiz
Field in Kazakhstan to the Black Sea port of  Novorossiysk  and is scheduled for
start-up in mid-2001.  The additional  export capacity provided by this pipeline
is important for planned future  expansions at TCO to permit production to reach
a production goal of 700,000 barrels per day by 2010.

Canada
During 1999, a  significant  natural gas  discovery  was made  northwest of Fort
Liard,  Northwest  Territories,  Canada.  Plans  are  being  developed  for  the
construction of production and transportation facilities and additional wells to
permit first  production by May 2000. A second  successful well was completed in
January  2000 and is expected to begin  producing  in the fourth  quarter  2000.
Chevron is the operator and has a 43 percent  interest in both  discoveries.  In
Alberta,  Canada,  Chevron  acquired a 20 percent  interest in the Athabasca Oil
Sands Project. Completion of construction and start-up of the project is planned
for late 2002 and  represents  a  long-term  earnings  growth  opportunity  with
expected  gross  production  of 155,000  barrels  per day.  Production  from the
Hibernia  Field,  in  which  Chevron  holds  a  27  percent  interest,  averaged
approximately 100,000 barrels per day in 1999, up from 65,000 barrels per day in
1998.  Rates up to 150,000  barrels per day were achieved during the latter part
of the year. Development drilling in the Hibernia reservoir continued in 1999.

Chemicals
In February  2000,  Chevron and Phillips  Petroleum  Company  signed a letter of
intent and exclusivity  agreement to combine most of their chemicals  businesses
in a joint venture.  Chevron will retain its Oronite  Additives  business.  Each
company  will own 50 percent  of the joint  venture,  which  would have had 1999
sales of about $6  billion  and will have  assets of more than $6  billion.  The
combination is subject to final approval by the companies'  boards of directors,
signing of definitive agreements and regulatory review, which are expected to be
completed by mid-2000.

Dynegy
On February 1, 2000,  Chevron's  affiliate,  Dynegy Inc.,  merged with  Illinova
Corporation, an energy services holding company in Illinois. Chevron invested an
additional $200 million to maintain its  approximately  28 percent  ownership in
the merged  company.  The merger will  accelerate  Dynegy's  growth in the power
generation and marketing business.

e-Business
During 1999, the company implemented a new growth initiative aimed at developing
business  opportunities  capitalizing on Internet technology.  In February 2000,
Chevron  and Ariba Inc.  formed  Petrocosm  Marketplace,  a global,  independent
Internet  business-to-business  marketplace  to be owned by buyers and suppliers
across the energy  industry.  Also in  February,  Chevron  entered  into a joint
venture - Upstreaminfo.com - with Electronic Data Systems and others that will
allow the sale of  information  such as seismic data between  companies and help
these energy businesses to recapture their costs in data collection and storage.

New  Technology  Ventures
Chevron established a technology ventures unit during 1999. The company plans to
make equity  investments in a broad portfolio of emerging  technology  companies
with expertise in information technology,  materials sciences and biotechnology.
These  investments  will be  directed  toward  areas  where  the  company  could
potentially be a customer of the new ventures.

YEAR 2000  ISSUE
The Year 2000  issue was the  result of  computer  systems  and  equipment  with
embedded  chips  potentially  being unable to process  certain  data  accurately
before,  during or after 2000. Chevron  established a corporate-level  Year 2000
project team in 1998 to coordinate  the company's  efforts to address the issue.
To date, the company and its




                                      FS-3


major affiliates have experienced no significant disruptions in their operations
as a result  of this  matter.  The  company  used  both  internal  and  external
resources in its Year 2000 efforts.  The cumulative cost for the company and its
affiliates  to  achieve  Year 2000  compliance  is  estimated  at $170  million,
substantially  all of which had been spent by year-end  1999.  While the company
believes that it has addressed all material  issues that could arise as a result
of the Year 2000 issue, other factors,  such as the effect of Year 2000 problems
on  third-party  partners and suppliers  could cause the actual  effects of Year
2000  problems to be  different  from the  company's  current  assessment.  Such
factors  could  arise in 2000 or later.  Year 2000  contingency  plans have been
incorporated  into  the  company's  existing  contingency  plans to  respond  to
equipment failures, emergencies and business interruptions.

ENVIRONMENTAL  MATTERS
Virtually all aspects of the businesses in which the company engages are subject
to various federal,  state and local  environmental,  health and safety laws and
regulations.  These regulatory  requirements continue to increase in both number
and complexity and govern not only the manner in which the company  conducts its
operations,  but also the products it sells. Most of the costs of complying with
myriad laws and  regulations  pertaining to company  operations and products are
embedded in the normal costs of doing business.

Using  definitions  and  guidelines   established  by  the  American   Petroleum
Institute,  Chevron  estimates its worldwide  environmental  spending in 1999 at
$882 million for its consolidated companies. Included in these expenditures were
$183 million of  environmental  capital  expenditures  and $699 million of costs
associated with the control and abatement of hazardous substances and pollutants
from  ongoing  operations.  For  2000,  total  worldwide  environmental  capital
expenditures are estimated at $178 million.  These capital costs are in addition
to the ongoing costs of complying with  environmental  regulations and the costs
to remediate previously contaminated sites.

Accidental leaks and spills  requiring  cleanup may occur in the ordinary course
of business.  In addition to the costs for environmental  protection  associated
with its ongoing  operations  and products,  the company may incur  expenses for
corrective  actions at various  owned and  previously  owned  facilities  and at
third-party  waste disposal  sites used by the company.  An obligation may arise
when  operations  are closed or sold,  or at  non-Chevron  sites  where  company
products have been handled or disposed of. The most significant of the company's
previously owned sites is the Port Arthur,  Texas,  refinery,  where the company
retained certain  environmental cleanup obligations when it sold the refinery in
1995.  Anticipated  costs were accrued at the time of sale,  and those  reserves
remain adequate. Most of the expenditures to fulfill these obligations relate to
facilities  and sites where past  operations  followed  practices and procedures
that were considered acceptable at the time but now require investigative and/or
remedial work to meet current standards.

The following  table  displays the year-end  balances and yearly  changes to the
company's before-tax  environmental  remediation  reserves,  including those for
Superfund  sites.  For 1999,  the company  recorded  additional  provisions  for
estimated  remediation  costs at refined products  marketing sites,  refineries,
chemical  manufacturing  facilities  and  previously  sold oil and gas producing
properties.



Under provisions of the Superfund law, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)
has  designated  Chevron  a  potentially  responsible  party,  or has  otherwise
involved it, in the  remediation of 307 hazardous  waste sites.  The company has
made  expense  provisions  or  payments in 1999 and prior years for 229 of these
sites.  No single site is currently  expected to result in a material  liability
for the company. For the remaining sites,  investigations are not yet at a stage
where the company is able to quantify a probable  liability or determine a range
of  reasonably  possible  exposures.  The  Superfund  law provides for joint and
several liability.  Any future actions by the EPA and other regulatory  agencies
to require  Chevron  Corporation to assume other  responsible  parties' costs at
designated  hazardous  waste sites are not expected to have a material effect on
the company's consolidated financial position or liquidity. Remediation reserves
at  year-end  1999,  1998 and 1997 for  Superfund  sites were $33  million,  $44
million  and $52  million,  respectively.

It is likely that the company  will  continue to incur  additional  liabilities,
beyond  those  recorded,   for  environmental   remediation   relating  to  past
operations.  Future costs of these  liabilities are  indeterminable  due to such
factors as the unknown magnitude of possible  contamination,  the unknown timing
and extent of the corrective actions that may be required,  the determination of
the  company's  liability in  proportion  to other  responsible  parties and the
extent to which such costs are recoverable from third parties.  While the amount
of future costs may be material to the  company's  results of  operations in the
period in which they are recognized,  the company does not expect these costs to
have a material  effect on its  consolidated  financial  position or  liquidity.
Also,  the company does not believe its  obligations  to make such  expenditures
have had, or will have,  any  significant  impact on the  company's  competitive
position  relative to other  domestic or  international  petroleum  or chemicals
concerns.

In addition to the reserves for environmental  remediation discussed previously,
the company maintains reserves for dismantlement, abandonment and restoration of
its  worldwide oil and gas and coal  properties  at the end of their  productive
lives.  Many of  these  costs  are  related  to  environmental  issues.  Expense
provisions  are recognized on a  unit-of-production  basis as the properties are
produced.  The amount of these reserves at year-end 1999 was $1.5 billion and is
included  in  accumulated  depreciation,   depletion  and  amortization  on  the
company's  consolidated balance sheet. For the company's other operating assets,
such as refineries and chemical  facilities,  no provisions are made for exit or
cleanup  costs  that may be  required  when such  assets  reach the end of their
useful  lives,  unless a decision to sell or otherwise  abandon the facility has
been made.




                                      FS-4


LITIGATION AND OTHER UNCERTAINTIES
Chevron and five other oil companies  filed suit in 1995 contesting the validity
of a patent  granted to Unocal  Corporation  for  reformulated  gasoline,  which
Chevron sells in  California  in certain  months of the year. On March 29, 2000,
the U. S.  Court of  Appeals  for the  Federal  Circuit  upheld a trial  court's
decision that Unocal's  patent is valid.  The company will evaluate the decision
by the Court of Appeals and assess  legal  alternatives,  but it expects to seek
further review of these rulings in the  appropriate  courts.  If Unocal's patent
ultimately is upheld, the company's financial exposure includes royalties,  plus
interest, for production of gasoline that is ruled to have infringed the patent.
As a result of the March 2000 ruling, the company expects to record an after-tax
charge in the first quarter 2000 of approximately  $75 million for the four-year
period ending March 31, 2000.  The majority of this charge  pertains to gasoline
production in the earlier part of this period,  before the company  modified its
manufacturing   processes   to  minimize   the   manufacture   of  the  patented
formulations.   Unocal  has  also  obtained  additional  patents  for  alternate
formulations  that could affect a larger share of U.S. gasoline  production.  We
believe these additional patents are invalid and unenforceable. However, if such
patents are ultimately  upheld,  the  competitive  and financial  effects on the
company's  refining and marketing  operations,  while presently  indeterminable,
could be material.

In  December  1999,  Chevron  paid OXY U.S.A.  Inc.  $775  million to settle the
long-standing  lawsuit  brought in 1982 by Cities Service Co. (later acquired by
OXY) against Gulf Oil Corporation (later acquired by Chevron). At year-end 1998,
Chevron had accrued a loss provision of $924 million. The provision exceeded the
settlement  amount,  and as a result,  the company  recognized  $104  million in
additional net income ($149 million before tax) in 1999.

Along with other oil companies,  the company is a party to numerous lawsuits and
claims - including  actions  challenging  oil and gas royalty and severance tax
payments based on posted prices,  and actions related to the use of the chemical
MTBE in certain oxygenated gasolines.  In some of these matters,  plaintiffs may
seek to  recover  large  and  sometimes  unspecified  amounts.  In  others,  the
plaintiffs  may  seek  to  have  the  company  perform  specific  activities,
including  remediation of alleged damages.  These matters may remain  unresolved
for several years, and it is not practical to estimate a range of possible loss.
Although  losses could be material to earnings in any given  period,  management
believes  that  resolution  of these  matters  will not  materially  affect  the
company's consolidated financial position or its liquidity.

Higher-than-expected  investment  returns on pension  plan trust assets over the
past few years have moderated U.S.  pension  expense and have extended the fully
funded status of the  company's  main U.S.  pension plan.  These effects may not
occur on a sustained  basis in the future if investment  returns on pension plan
assets decline.

In June 1997, Caltex Corporation received a claim from the U.S. Internal Revenue
Service  (IRS) for $292 million in excise  taxes,  $140 million in penalties and
$1.6 billion in interest.  The IRS claim  related to crude oil sales to Japanese
customers beginning in 1980. To settle this claim, in December 1999, Caltex paid
tax and interest of $65 million less a payment of $12 million previously made to
the IRS.

The company's  operations,  particularly oil and gas exploration and production,
can be affected by changing economic,  regulatory and political  environments in
the various  countries,  including the United States,  in which it operates.  In
certain  locations,  host  governments have imposed  restrictions,  controls and
taxes, and, in others,  political  conditions have existed that may threaten the
safety of employees and the  company's  continued  presence in those  countries.
Internal unrest or strained  relations between a host government and the company
or other  governments may affect the company's  operations.  Those  developments
have, at times,  significantly  affected the company's  related  operations  and
results, and are carefully considered by management when evaluating the level of
current and future activity in such countries.

Chevron and its affiliates  continue to review and analyze their  operations and
may close, sell, exchange, purchase or restructure assets to achieve operational
or strategic benefits to improve competitiveness and profitability.  For oil and
gas  producing  operations,   ownership  agreements  may  provide  for  periodic
reassessments  of equity  interests in  estimated  oil and gas  reserves.  These
activities may result in significant losses or gains in future periods.

FINANCIAL  INSTRUMENTS
The company  utilizes various  derivative  instruments to manage its exposure to
price  risk  stemming  from  its  integrated  petroleum  activities.  All  these
instruments  are  commonly  used  in oil  and  gas  trading  activities  and are
relatively  straightforward,  involve little complexity and generally,  are of a
short-term  duration.  Most of the activity in these  instruments is intended to
hedge a  physical  transaction;  hence,  gains and  losses  arising  from  these
instruments   offset  and  are  recognized  in  income   concurrently  with  the
recognition  of the  underlying  physical  transactions  in income.  The company
believes it has no material market or credit risks to its operations,  financial
position  or  liquidity  as a result of its  commodities  and other  derivatives
activities,  including  forward exchange  contracts and interest rate swaps. Its
control  systems are designed to monitor and manage its  financial  exposures in
accordance with company  policies and procedures.  The results of operations and
financial  position of certain equity  affiliates may,  however,  be affected by
their business activities involving the use of derivative instruments.

NEW  ACCOUNTING  STANDARDS
In June 1998, the Financial  Accounting  Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement
of Financial  Accounting  Standards  (SFAS) No. 133,  "Accounting for Derivative
Instruments  and  Hedging  Activities,"  which,  as  amended  by SFAS  No.  137,
"Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities - Deferral of the
Effective  Date of FASB  Statement No. 133," is to be  implemented  on or before
January 1, 2001. The basic rules of the new standard require that all derivative
instruments be recognized on the balance sheet at their fair values. For hedging
activities,  changes  in fair value are  accounted  for in  accordance  with the
underlying  hedged item.  Thus,  some hedging  gains or losses appear in income,
offsetting  gains or losses  stemming  from the  underlying  exposure.  In other
instances, hedging gains or losses are reported in other comprehensive income (a
component of stockholders'  equity) until the underlying  exposure is recognized
in net income. These rules may be applied on a transaction-by-transaction basis.
For all nonhedging derivative activity, gains or losses are recognized currently
in income.  The  company  will  implement  SFAS No.  133 on January 1, 2001.  As
Chevron's activity in this area is minor and the derivative instruments used are
relatively straightforward




                                      FS-5


involving  little  complexity,  the company  does not expect the new standard to
have a significant effect on its earnings in any given period.

EMPLOYEE STAFF  REDUCTIONS AND  RESTRUCTURINGS
During the second quarter of 1999,  Chevron began implementing a staff reduction
program  and  other  restructuring  activities  across  the  company.  While the
programs affect the activities of all the company's business  segments,  most of
the net costs and future  savings  relate to the  termination  and relocation of
U.S.-based employees.

Restructuring costs of $183 million were reflected in 1999 net income, including
estimated  termination  benefits for 3,472 employees.  These restructuring costs
included accrued employee termination  benefits,  restructuring-related  pension
settlement  gains and other items.  Also  included is $25 million for  Chevron's
share of restructuring charges recorded by its Caltex affiliate.  The net-income
effect of these costs and the estimated  number of employees  (excluding  Caltex
employees) to be separated  are  presented by business  segment in the following
table.



The staff  reductions  will be  completed  by  mid-2000.  At December 31, 1999,
termination   payments   had  been   made  to  2,157 employees.

RESULTS   OF OPERATIONS
Sales and other  operating  revenues were $35.4  billion in 1999,  compared with
$29.9  billion in 1998 and $40.6  billion in 1997.  Revenues for 1999  increased
primarily on sharply higher prices for crude oil and refined products.  In 1998,
revenues were down from 1997 levels,  primarily due to lower crude oil,  natural
gas and refined  products  prices;  lower U.S.  natural gas production;  and the
company's 1997 exit from the U.K. refining and marketing business.

Purchased  crude oil and products  costs in 1999 were 28 percent  higher than in
1998 because of higher prices for crude oil,  natural gas,  refined products and
chemicals  feedstock.  However,  such costs  were 11 percent  lower than in 1997
because prices fell precipitously in 1998 and did not begin to recover until the
second quarter of 1999.

Other income totaled $612 million in 1999, $386 million in 1998 and $679 million
in 1997.  Changes in net gains  from the  disposition  of assets and  changes in
interest income caused the fluctuations between years.

Operating,  selling, general and administrative expenses,  excluding the effects
of special items,  declined to $6,170  million,  from $6,251 million in 1998 and
$6,549 million in 1997.  Approximately $200 million of the 1998 decline resulted
from the company's exit from the U.K. downstream business.



Depreciation,  depletion and amortization  expenses  increased to $2,866 million
from  $2,320  million  in 1998 and  $2,300  million in 1997 due in part to asset
impairments.  Depreciation expense associated with asset impairments in 1999 was
$394  million,  compared  with  about $100  million in 1998 and 1997.  Increased
production of crude oil and natural gas in 1999 resulted in higher  depreciation
expense of about $150 million in the company's worldwide upstream operations.

Income tax expenses were $1,578 million in 1999, $495 million in 1998 and $2,246
million in 1997, reflecting effective income tax rates of 43 percent, 27 percent
and 41 percent for each of the three  years,  respectively.  The increase in the
1999  effective  tax  rate  reflects  a  higher   proportion  of  earnings  from
international  operations that are taxed at higher rates; a lower  beneficial
impact from prior-period tax adjustments, settlement of outstanding issues, and
permanent  differences  in 1999;  and  lower  tax  credits  as a  proportion  of
before-tax  income.  These factors were  slightly  offset by the effect of lower
taxes on taxable income received from equity affiliates in 1999.

The lower effective tax rate in 1998, compared with 1997, primarily reflects
favorable prior-period tax adjustments;  favorable adjustments  associated with
the finalization of the company's 1997 tax returns,  higher tax-related  credits
connected  with the  utilization  of capital  loss  benefits  and a shift in the
international earnings mix to lower-tax-rate countries.




                                      FS-6


Foreign currency losses decreased net income $38 million in 1999 and $47 million
in 1998,  while gains  increased net income $246 million in 1997.  These amounts
include the company's share of affiliates'  foreign currency gains or losses. In
1999, the company's foreign currency losses occurred  primarily in the company's
operations in Canada and Australia and in the  Australian  operations of Caltex.
The most  significant  losses  in 1998  were in  Caltex's  operations  in Korea,
Thailand and Japan.  The foreign  currency  gains for 1997 occurred in Australia
and in the Asian operating  areas of Caltex,  where,  generally,  the currencies
weakened against the U.S. dollar.



U.S.  exploration and production earnings in 1999, excluding special items, more
than doubled  1998  earnings,  but  declined 16 percent from 1997 levels.  These
changes largely  tracked  changes in crude oil prices.  Higher gains from assets
sales  and lower  exploration  expenses  each year  helped  offset  declines  in
production  of liquids and natural  gas.  The effect on net income from  special
items for the years 1997 through 1999 is shown in the following table.





The company's average 1999 U.S. crude oil realizations of $16.11 per barrel were
$4.69 higher than 1998 but $1.57 lower than 1997.  Average 1999 U.S. natural gas
prices  were $2.16 per  thousand  cubic feet,  14 cents  higher than 1998 but 26
cents lower than 1997.

Net liquids  production  for the year averaged  316,000  barrels per day, down 3
percent from 1998 and down 8 percent from 1997.  Net natural gas  production  in
1999 averaged  1.639 billion cubic feet per day, down 6 percent from 1998 and 11
percent from 1997.  The decline in  oil-equivalent  production  reflects  normal
field  declines and asset sales,  partially  offset by new  production in the
Gulf of Mexico.  Production in 1998 was also  adversely  affected by a number of
storms in the Gulf of Mexico, including Hurricane Georges.

International  exploration and production earnings,  excluding special items, in
1999 increased 61 percent from 1998 earnings,  but were down 3 percent from 1997
levels.  As in the U.S.  upstream  segment,  these  changes in earnings  largely
reflected  the swings in crude oil prices.  While 1999 average  crude oil prices
did not return to 1997 levels, production has grown each year.

The effect on net income from  special  items for the years 1997 through 1999 is
shown in the following table.



Chevron's average liquids realizations, including equity affiliates, were $17.31
per  barrel in 1999,  compared  with  $11.77  per  barrel in 1998 and $17.97 per
barrel in 1997.  Average  natural gas  realizations  fell to $1.87 per  thousand
cubic feet in 1999, compared with $1.94 in 1998 and $2.10 in 1997.




                                      FS-7


In 1999, net liquids  production of 811,000  barrels per day increased 4 percent
from 1998 and 11 percent from 1997. In 1999,  production increases in Angola and
Kazakhstan, combined with production from properties acquired during the year in
Argentina and Thailand, offset declines in Australia,  Indonesia and Nigeria. In
1998, operations in Kazakhstan,  offshore eastern Canada, Indonesia,  Angola and
Congo were the principal sources of production increases from 1997.

Net natural gas  production  of 874 million cubic feet in 1999 was up 34 percent
and 52 percent from 1998 and 1997, respectively. Increases in 1999 were from the
United  Kingdom,  as well as from  production  from the  properties  acquired in
Thailand and  Argentina.  In 1998,  production  rose in Indonesia and Nigeria as
well as in the United Kingdom upon the start-up of the Britannia Field.

For  10  consecutive  years,   international   production  and  proved  reserves
increased,  reflecting  the company's  strategy of expanding  its  international
upstream  operations.  In 1999,  OEG production  increased by 7 percent,  and at
year-end  1999 OEG proved  reserves were higher than year-end 1998 by 6 percent.
The  company  replaced  169  percent  of 1999 OEG  production  during  the year,
including sales and acquisitions.

U.S. refining,  marketing and transportation earnings,  excluding special items,
declined in 1999 to $375 million after strong  earnings in 1998 and 1997 of $633
million  and  $662  million,  respectively.  Earnings  for  1999  suffered  from
compressed  margins, as higher raw materials costs outpaced increases in refined
products sales realizations.  Operating  incidents at the Richmond,  California,
refinery  also  contributed  to the lower  results.  These  effects  were offset
partially by  increases  in refined  products  sales  volumes and proceeds  from
business interruption insurance.

For 1998, declines in refined products margins and the adverse effects of storms
in the Gulf of Mexico were offset  primarily by decreases in operating  expenses
and increases in refined  products sales volumes.  Also included in 1998 results
were proceeds from a partial payment of business interruption  insurance as well
as adjustments to prior years' taxes.

The effect on net income from  special  items for the years 1997 through 1999 is
shown in the following table.



Refined  products  sales  volumes  of  1.302  million  barrels  per  day in 1999
increased 5 percent  over 1998 and 9 percent from 1997.  The sales  increases in
1999 reflected higher gasoline sales volumes,  including  branded gasoline sales
of 545,000  BPD,  which  increased 5 percent  from the 1998 level and 10 percent
from 1997.

For 1999, U.S. refined products sales realizations were $26.86 per barrel, up 20
percent from 1998 but 7 percent lower than in 1997.

International refining, marketing and transportation earnings include results of
the  consolidated  refining and  marketing  subsidiaries,  international  marine
operations and equity earnings of Caltex. Excluding special items, 1999 earnings
of $49  million  were down from $123  million in 1998 and $367  million in 1997.
Foreign  currency  losses were $21 million in 1999,  compared with losses of $69
million in 1998 and gains of $169 million in 1997. The effect on net income from
special items for the years 1997 through 1999 is shown in the following table.



The Caltex  contribution  to segment  results for the years 1997 through 1999 is
shown in the table below.



On an adjusted basis, Caltex earnings declined in 1999 due to weak sales margins
in most of its areas of operations,  as competitive  pressures prevented refined
products sales realizations from rising sufficiently to recover higher crude oil
costs. Sales realizations in 1998 did not decline as fast as raw material costs,
resulting in higher sales margins and adjusted earnings when compared with 1997.

Total international  refined products sales volumes in 1999 were 892,000 barrels
per day, increasing from 798,000 in 1998 and 886,000 in 1997.

Higher Caltex sales volumes were primarily  responsible for the increase.  Sales
volumes in 1998 were lower than 1997 as a result of  Chevron's  withdrawal  from
the  refining  and  marketing  business  in the  United  Kingdom  in late  1997.
Excluding the 1997 volumes from the discontinued U.K. business, refined products
sales volumes were essentially flat between 1998 and 1997.

Chemicals  earnings,  excluding  special items,  rose 36 percent in 1999 to $205
million but did not reach the $224  million  recorded in 1997.  Earnings in 1999
benefited from improved sales margins for major products, higher sales vol-




                                      FS-8


umes and lower operating  expenses.  The 1998 results were affected adversely by
plant shutdowns for expansions and storm damage repairs. Earnings in 2000 remain
under pressure from industry overcapacity.  However, the company's sales volumes
grew in 1999, increasing 10 percent over 1998 and 20 percent from 1997 levels.

The effect on net income from  special  items for the years 1997 through 1999 is
shown in the following table.




All Other activities include coal operations,  interest expense, interest income
on cash and marketable  securities,  real estate and insurance  activities,  and
corporate center costs.  All Other net charges,  excluding  special items,  were
$317  million in 1999,  compared  with $60 million and $242  million in 1998 and
1997,  respectively.

The effect on net charges from special  items for the years 1997 through 1999 is
shown in the following table.



Net income,  excluding  special items, for the company's coal operations was $34
million in 1999,  compared with $77 million in 1998 and $41 million in 1997. Net
income for 1999 included net special benefits of $26 million. Lower 1999 results
were due  primarily  to the absence of earnings  from an  affiliate  sold in the
first  quarter,  lower sales  tonnage and sales  prices for the  remaining  coal
business,  and  adjustments  during  the  year to the  carrying  value  of these
remaining  operations that were under active negotiation for sale. Late in 1999,
as a result of unsuccessful  negotiations to sell the company's coal operations,
final  adjustments  were made to reduce the net  carrying  value of the  assets,
which are no longer held for sale.  Earnings in 1998,  in contrast with 1999 and
1997, benefited from the suspension of depreciation expense for part of the year
while the  held-for-sale  assets were  actively  being  marketed to  prospective
buyers.

Net charges,  excluding  special items, for the balance of the All Other segment
were $351 million in 1999, $137 million in 1998 and $283 million in 1997. Higher
interest expense,  lower interest income,  and fewer favorable state and federal
income tax adjustments were the primary causes of the higher level of charges in
1999  compared with 1998.  Included in the 1998  earnings  were net  incremental
benefits totaling approximately $80 million, consisting primarily of tax-related
credits, which were connected with the utilization of capital loss benefits, and
the receipt of proceeds from favorable  insurance  settlements.  Net charges for
1998  also  included  more  favorable  tax-related  adjustments  than  in  1997.
Partially offsetting these 1998 items were higher interest expenses on increased
debt levels and lower interest income.


LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
Cash,  cash  equivalents  and  marketable  securities  totaled $2.032 billion at
year-end 1999, up 44 percent from $1.413 billion at year-end 1998. Cash provided
by operating activities in 1999 was $4.481 billion, compared with $3.731 billion
in 1998 and $4.880  billion in 1997.  Cash  provided by operating  activities in
1999 benefited from the environment of rising crude oil prices and the resulting
impact on the  company's  earnings,  but was not totally  sufficient to fund the
company's total cash needs. As a result, the company increased its borrowings in
1999 by about $1.4 billion to supplement cash received from operating activities
and proceeds from the sales of assets to provide the funds for acquisitions, its
capital expenditure program, dividend payments to stockholders, and the December
1999 payment of $775 million to Occidental Petroleum in settlement of the Cities
Service  lawsuit.  In  1998,  cash  provided  by  operating  activities  was not
sufficient  to fund the  company's  investing  activities  and also  resulted in
increased  borrowings that year. In 1997, cash provided by operating  activities
and asset sales exceeded the company's investment and dividend requirements, and
debt was reduced.

In October 1999, the company  increased its quarterly  dividend from 61 cents to
65 cents per  share.  For the full year,  Chevron  paid  dividends  of $2.48 per
share,  compared  with $2.44 per share in 1998 - the 12th  consecutive  year of
dividend  increases.  In January 2000, the company declared a quarterly dividend
of 65 cents a share on its common stock.

The company's  total debt and capital lease  obligations  were $8.919 billion at
December  31, 1999,  an increase of 18 percent  from $7.558  billion at year-end
1998. In 1999,  the company's  Employee Stock  Ownership Plan (ESOP)  borrowed a
total of $645 million at an average interest rate of 7.4 percent,  guaranteed by
Chevron  Corporation.  Debt  proceeds  of $620  million  were  paid  to  Chevron
Corporation  in exchange for  Chevron's  assumption of the existing 8.11 percent
ESOP debt of $620 million.  In October 1999,  the company issued $500 million of
new 6.625 percent  notes.  Chevron used the proceeds from the new debt to reduce
short-term debt,  primarily  commercial paper. Other additions to long-term debt
and capital lease  obligations in 1999,  excluding debt assumed in  acquisitions
and  guarantees  of ESOP debt,  totaled  about $200  million.  The  additions to
long-term debt in 1999 were partially offset by repayments of existing long-term
debt and capital lease  obligations of $163 million,  repayments of debt assumed
in acquisitions  of $386 million and a scheduled $70 million noncash  retirement
of 8.11  percent  ESOP debt.  There were also net  additions  of $219 million in
short-term debt,




                                      FS-9


primarily  commercial  paper,  excluding  debt assumed in  acquisitions  and new
guarantees of ESOP debt.

On December 31, 1999,  Chevron had $4.750 billion in committed credit facilities
with various major banks,  $2.725 billion of which had termination  dates beyond
one year.  These facilities  support  commercial paper borrowing and also can be
used for general credit requirements. No borrowings were outstanding under these
facilities  during the year or at year-end 1999. In addition,  Chevron has three
existing  "shelf"  registrations  on  file  with  the  Securities  and  Exchange
Commission that together would permit registered offerings of up to $2.8 billion
of debt  securities.  This is an increase of $1.5 billion from 1998  following a
new $2 billion shelf  registration in 1999 and the 1999 issuance of $500 million
in new long-term debt under an existing shelf registration.

The company's short-term debt,  consisting primarily of commercial paper and the
current portion of long-term debt,  totaled $6.159 billion at December 31, 1999.
Of the total short-term debt,  $2.725 billion was reclassified to long-term debt
at year-end  1999 because  settlement  of these  obligations  is not expected to
require  the use of working  capital in 2000,  as the company has the intent and
the ability, as evidenced by committed credit arrangements, to refinance them
on a long-term basis. The company's  practice has been to continually  refinance
its commercial paper, maintaining levels it believes to be appropriate.

The  company's  future debt level is  dependent  primarily  on cash  provided by
operations  and its  capital  spending  program.  The  company  believes  it has
substantial  borrowing capacity to meet unanticipated  cash  requirements.  The
company's  senior debt is rated AA by Standard & Poor's  Corporation  and Aa2 by
Moody's  Investors  Service.  Chevron's U.S.  commercial  paper is rated A-1+ by
Standard & Poor's and Prime-1 by Moody's. Chevron's Canadian commercial paper is
rated R-1 (middle) by Dominion Bond Rating Service.  Moody's counterparty rating
for  Chevron  is  also  Aa2.   All  of  these   ratings   denote   high-quality,
investment-grade securities.

In December 1997,  Chevron's Board of Directors approved the repurchase of up to
$2 billion of the  company's  outstanding  common  stock for use in its employee
stock option programs.  Through March 24, 2000, the company had purchased 10.7
million shares at a cost of $826 million under the program.

FINANCIAL RATIOS
The  current  ratio is the ratio of  current  assets to current  liabilities  at
year-end.  Two items  negatively  affected  Chevron's  current  ratio but in the
company's  opinion  do not  affect its  liquidity.  Current  assets in all years
included  inventories  valued on a LIFO basis,  that at year-end 1999 were lower
than current  costs,  based on average  acquisition  costs for the year, by $871
million.  Also, the company  continually  refinances its  commercial  paper.  At
year-end 1999, approximately $2.066 billion of commercial paper, after excluding
$2.725  billion  reclassified  to long-term  debt,  was  classified as a current
liability, although it is likely to remain outstanding indefinitely. The company
benefits  from lower  interest  rates  available on  short-term  debt;  however,
Chevron's  proportionately  large amount of  short-term  debt keeps its ratio of
current assets to current liabilities at a relatively low level.



The interest coverage ratio is defined as income before income tax expense, plus
interest and debt expense and amortization of capitalized  interest,  divided by
before-tax   interest  costs.   Chevron's   interest   coverage  ratio  improved
significantly in 1999 due to higher before-tax  income,  despite higher interest
expense.  The company's debt ratio (total debt/total debt plus equity) increased
in 1999,  as the  increase  in total debt was  proportionately  higher  than the
increase in stockholders' equity.

CAPITAL AND EXPLORATORY EXPENDITURES
Worldwide capital and exploratory  expenditures for 1999 totaled $6.133 billion,
including the company's equity share of affiliates' expenditures. Capital and
exploratory expenditures were $5.314 billion in 1998 and $5.541 billion in 1997.
Expenditures for exploration and production, including those associated with the
company's Dynegy  affiliate,  accounted for 75 percent of total outlays in 1999,
compared  with  61  percent  in  1998  and 65  percent  in  1997.  International
exploration and production spending was 78 percent of worldwide  exploration and
production expenditures in 1999, compared with 60 percent in 1998 and 54 percent
in 1997, reflecting the company's continuing focus on international  exploration
and  production  activities.   Additionally,   1999  expenditures  included  two
significant  acquisitions in  international  exploration and production areas -
the  Rutherford-Moran Oil Corporation and Petrolera Argentina San Jorge S.A. The
company's  other  segments had lower  expenditures  in 1999 than in 1998, as the
company reduced  spending to fund its  international  exploration and production
activities.

The company  estimates  capital and  exploratory  expenditures  for 2000 at $5.2
billion, including Chevron's share of spending by affiliates. This is down about
15  percent  from  1999  spending  levels,  reflecting  the  absence  of the two
significant  1999  acquisitions.  The 2000  program  provides  $3.6  billion for
exploration  and  production  investments,  of  which  about 64  percent  is for
international  projects.  Major areas of emphasis for exploration and production
are Kazakhstan, West Africa, Thailand, Canada and the deep waters of the Gulf of
Mexico. U.S.  exploration and production  estimates include $390 million for the
company's increased investment in Dynegy and Dynegy's expenditures for the year.
Successful  implementation  of the  planned  expenditure  program  for 2000 will
depend upon many factors, including the ability of our partners in many of these
projects, some of which are national petroleum companies of producing countries,
to fund their shares of project expenditures.

Transportation  expenditures  are estimated at about $420 million.  Most of this
will be in the Caspian Sea region,  where the  Caspian  Pipeline  Consortium  is
constructing a pipeline.  Refining and marketing  expenditures  are estimated at
about $830 million, with $530 million of that planned for projects in the United
States,  most of  which  will  be  spent  for  marketing  projects.  Most of the
international downstream capital program




                                     FS-10


will be invested by the company's  Caltex  affiliate.  The company has tentative
plans to invest about $200 million in the  worldwide  chemicals  business,  down
about 57 percent from 1999 spending levels.  This amount may change depending on
the timing of a successful  formation of the proposed  chemicals  joint  venture
with Phillips Petroleum Company.









                                     FS-11


                              REPORT OF MANAGEMENT

TO THE STOCKHOLDERS OF CHEVRON CORPORATION

Management of Chevron is responsible  for preparing the  accompanying  financial
statements and for ensuring their integrity and objectivity. The statements were
prepared in accordance  with  accounting  principles  generally  accepted in the
United States and fairly represent the  transactions  and financial  position of
the  company.  The  financial  statements  include  amounts  that  are  based on
management's  best estimates and judgments.

The  company's  statements  have been  audited  by  PricewaterhouseCoopers  LLP,
independent  accountants,  selected by the Audit  Committee  and approved by the
stockholders.  Management has made available to  PricewaterhouseCoopers  LLP all
the  company's  financial  records and related  data,  as well as the minutes of
stockholders' and directors' meetings.

Management  of the company has  established  and  maintains a system of internal
accounting controls that is designed to provide reasonable assurance that assets
are safeguarded,  transactions are properly  recorded and executed in accordance
with management's  authorization,  and the books and records  accurately reflect
the disposition of assets. The system of internal controls includes  appropriate
division of  responsibility.  The company maintains an internal audit department
that conducts an extensive program of internal audits and independently assesses
the effectiveness of the internal  controls.

The Audit  Committee is composed of directors  who are not officers or employees
of the company.  It meets  regularly  with members of  management,  the internal
auditors  and  the  independent  accountants  to  discuss  the  adequacy  of the
company's internal controls,  its financial  statements,  and the nature, extent
and results of the audit effort.  Both the internal auditors and the independent
accountants  have free and  direct  access to the Audit  Committee  without  the
presence of management.


/s/ David J. O'Reilly        /s/ Martin R. Klitten        /s/ Stephen J. Crowe
- ---------------------        ---------------------      ----------------------
David J. O'Reilly            Martin R. Klitten            Stephen J. Crowe
Chairman of the Board        Vice President               Comptroller
and Chief Executive Officer  and Chief Financial Officer

February 23, 2000


                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

TO THE STOCKHOLDERS
AND THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF CHEVRON CORPORATION

In our opinion,  the  accompanying  consolidated  balance  sheet and the related
consolidated  statements of income,  comprehensive income,  stockholders' equity
and cash flows present fairly, in all material respects,  the financial position
of Chevron  Corporation and its  subsidiaries at December 31, 1999 and 1998, and
the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years
in the period ended December 31, 1999, in conformity with accounting  principles
generally  accepted in the United  States.  These  financial  statements are the
responsibility of the company's management;  our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these  financial  statements  based on our audits.  We conducted  our
audits of these  statements in  accordance  with  auditing  standards  generally
accepted in the United States,  which require that we plan and perform the audit
to obtain reasonable  assurance about whether the financial  statements are free
of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and  disclosures in the financial  statements,  assessing
the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and
evaluating the overall  financial  statement  presentation.  We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for the opinion expressed above.


/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
- ------------------------------
San Francisco, California
February 23, 2000






                                     FS-12










                                     FS-13









                                     FS-14










                                     FS-15








                                     FS-16


                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                 Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts

Note 1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Chevron  Corporation is an international  company that, through its subsidiaries
and affiliates,  engages in fully  integrated  petroleum  operations,  chemicals
operations  and coal  mining in the United  States and more than 100  countries.
Petroleum  operations  consist of exploring for,  developing and producing crude
oil and  natural  gas;  transporting  crude oil,  natural  gas and  products  by
pipelines, marine vessels and motor equipment;  refining crude oil into finished
petroleum  products;  and marketing crude oil, natural gas and refined petroleum
products.  Chemicals  operations include the manufacture and marketing of a wide
range of chemicals for industrial uses.

In  preparing  its  consolidated  financial  statements,   the  company  follows
accounting policies that are in accordance with accounting  principles generally
accepted  in  the  United  States.  This  requires  the  use  of  estimates  and
assumptions that affect the assets, liabilities,  revenues and expenses reported
in the financial  statements,  as well as amounts included in the notes thereto,
including discussion and disclosure of contingent liabilities. While the company
uses its best  estimates and  judgments,  actual results could differ from these
estimates as future confirming events occur.

The  nature  of the  company's  operations  and the many  countries  in which it
operates subject it to changing economic,  regulatory and political  conditions.
Also,  the  company  imports  crude oil for its U.S.  refining  operations.  The
company  does not believe it is  vulnerable  to the risk of a  near-term  severe
impact as a result of any concentration of its activities.

Subsidiary and Affiliated Companies
The  consolidated  financial  statements  include  the  accounts  of  subsidiary
companies more than 50 percent owned.  Investments in and advances to affiliates
in which the company has a substantial  ownership  interest of  approximately 20
percent to 50 percent, or for which the company exercises  significant influence
but not control over policy  decisions,  are accounted for by the equity method.
Under this accounting,  remaining  unamortized cost is increased or decreased by
the company's share of earnings or losses after dividends.

Oil and Gas Accounting
The successful efforts method is used for oil and gas exploration and production
activities.

Derivatives
Gains and losses on hedges of existing assets or liabilities are included in the
carrying amounts of those assets or liabilities and are ultimately recognized in
income as part of those carrying amounts. Gains and losses related to qualifying
hedges of firm commitments or anticipated transactions also are deferred and are
recognized in income or as adjustments  of carrying  amounts when the underlying
hedged  transaction  occurs.  Cash flows  associated with these  derivatives are
reported with the underlying hedged  transaction's cash flows. If, subsequent to
being hedged, underlying transactions are no longer likely to occur, the related
derivatives  gains and  losses are  recognized  currently  in income.  Gains and
losses on  derivatives  contracts  that do not qualify as hedges are  recognized
currently in "Other income."

Short-Term Investments
All  short-term  investments  are  classified  as available  for sale and are in
highly liquid debt or equity securities.  Those investments that are part of the
company's cash management  portfolio with original maturities of three months or
less are reported as cash equivalents. The balance of the short-term investments
is   reported   as   "Marketable   securities."   Short-term   investments   are
marked-to-market   with  any  unrealized  gains  or  losses  included  in  other
comprehensive income.

Inventories
Crude oil, petroleum products and chemicals are stated at cost, using a Last-In,
First-Out  (LIFO)  method.  In the  aggregate,  these  costs are  below  market.
Materials, supplies and other inventories generally are stated at average cost.

Properties, Plant and Equipment
All costs for development wells, related plant and equipment, and proved mineral
interests in oil and gas properties are capitalized.  Costs of exploratory wells
are  capitalized  pending  determination  of  whether  the  wells  found  proved
reserves.  Costs of wells that are assigned proved reserves remain  capitalized.
All other exploratory wells and costs are expensed.

Long-lived  assets,  including  proved oil and gas properties,  are assessed for
possible  impairment  by comparing  their  carrying  values to the  undiscounted
future net  before-tax  cash flows.  Impaired  assets are written  down to their
estimated fair values, generally their discounted cash flows. For proved oil and
gas  properties  in the  United  States,  the  company  generally  performs  the
impairment  review on an  individual  field  basis.  Outside the United  States,
reviews are performed on a country or concession basis.  Impairment  amounts are
recorded as  incremental  depreciation  expense in the period in which the event
occurs.

Depreciation  and depletion  (including  provisions for future  abandonment  and
restoration  costs) of all  capitalized  costs of proved  oil and gas  producing
properties,  except mineral interests, are expensed using the unit-of-production
method by  individual  fields as the proved  developed  reserves  are  produced.
Depletion  expenses  for  capitalized  costs of  proved  mineral  interests  are
recognized  using  the  unit-of-production  method by  individual  fields as the
related  proved  reserves  are  produced.   Periodic  valuation  provisions  for
impairment of capitalized costs of unproved mineral interests are expensed.

Depreciation   and  depletion   expenses  for  coal  are  determined  using  the
unit-of-production  method as the proved reserves are produced.  The capitalized
costs of all  other  plant and  equipment  are  depreciated  or  amortized  over
estimated  useful lives.  In general,  the  declining-balance  method is used to
depreciate plant and equipment in the United States;  the  straight-line  method
generally  is  used to  depreciate  international  plant  and  equipment  and to
amortize all capitalized  leased assets.  Gains or losses are not recognized for
normal retirements of properties, plant and equipment subject to composite group
amortization or depreciation.

Gains or losses  from  abnormal  retirements  or sales are  included  in income.

Expenditures for maintenance,  repairs and minor renewals to maintain facilities
in  operating  condition  are  expensed.  Major  replacements  and  renewals are
capitalized.





                                     FS-17


Note 1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 - Continued

Environmental Expenditures
Environmental  expenditures  that  relate to current  ongoing  operations  or to
conditions  caused by past  operations  are expensed.  Expenditures  that create
future benefits or contribute to future revenue generation are capitalized.

Liabilities  related to future remediation costs are recorded when environmental
assessments  and/or  cleanups  are  probable  and the  costs  can be  reasonably
estimated.  Other  than for  assessments,  the  timing  and  magnitude  of these
accruals are  generally  based on the  company's  commitment to a formal plan of
action,  such as an  approved  remediation  plan or the sale or  disposal  of an
asset. For the company's U.S. and Canadian marketing facilities,  the accrual is
based on the probability that a future remediation  commitment will be required.
For oil and gas and coal  producing  properties,  a  provision  is made  through
depreciation  expense for anticipated  abandonment and restoration  costs at the
end of the property's useful life.

For Superfund sites, the company records a liability for its share of costs when
it has  been  named  as a  Potentially  Responsible  Party  (PRP)  and  when  an
assessment  or cleanup  plan has been  developed.  This  liability  includes the
company's own portion of the costs and also the company's portion of amounts for
other PRPs when it is probable  that they will not be able to pay their share of
the cleanup obligation.

The company records the gross amount of its liability based on its best estimate
of future  costs using  currently  available  technology  and  applying  current
regulations as well as the company's own internal environmental policies. Future
amounts are not  discounted.  Recoveries  or  reimbursements  are recorded as an
asset when receipt is reasonably ensured.

Currency Translation
The U.S.  dollar  is the  functional  currency  for the  company's  consolidated
operations  as well as for  substantially  all  operations  of its equity method
companies. For those operations,  all gains or losses from currency transactions
are currently included in income. The cumulative translation effects for the few
equity  affiliates  using  functional  currencies other than the U.S. dollar are
included in the currency translation adjustment in stockholders' equity.

Taxes
Income taxes are accrued for retained earnings of international subsidiaries and
corporate joint ventures  intended to be remitted.  Income taxes are not accrued
for  unremitted  earnings of  international  operations  that have been,  or are
intended to be, reinvested indefinitely.

Revenue Recognition
Revenues  associated with sales of crude oil,  natural gas, coal,  petroleum and
chemicals products,  and all other sources are recorded when title passes to the
customer, net of royalties,  discounts and allowances,  as applicable.  Revenues
from natural gas  production  from  properties  in which Chevron has an interest
with other  producers  are  recognized on the basis of the company's net working
interest (entitlement method).

Stock Compensation
The  company  applies   Accounting   Principles  Board  (APB)  Opinion  No.  25,
"Accounting  for Stock  Issued to  Employees,"  and related  interpretations  in
accounting  for stock  options and  presents in Note 19 pro forma net income and
earnings  per  share  data as if the  accounting  prescribed  by SFAS  No.  123,
"Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation," had been applied.

Note 2.SPECIAL ITEMS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION
Net  income  is  affected  by  transactions  that  are  unrelated  to or are not
necessarily  representative of the company's ongoing  operations for the periods
presented.  These  transactions,  defined by management and designated "special
items," can obscure the  underlying  results of operations for a year as well as
affect comparability of results between years.

Listed below are  categories of special items and their net increase  (decrease)
to net income, after related tax effects.







                                     FS-18


Note 2. SPECIAL ITEMS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION - Continued

         Other financial information is as follows.




The excess of current  cost  (based on average  acquisition  costs for the year)
over the  carrying  value of  inventories  for which the LIFO method is used was
$871, $584 and $1,089 at December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

Note 3. CUMULATIVE EFFECT ON NET INCOME FROM ACCOUNTING CHANGES
In April 1998, the AICPA released Statement of Position 98-5,  "Reporting on the
Costs of Start-up Activities" (SOP 98-5), which introduced a broad definition of
items  to  expense  as  incurred  for   start-up   activities,   including   new
products/services,   entering  new  territories,  initiating  new  processes  or
commencing new  operations.  Chevron was  substantially  in compliance  with the
pronouncement.  However,  Caltex  capitalized  these  types of costs for certain
projects.  Chevron recorded its $25 share of the charge associated with Caltex's
1998 implementation of SOP 98-5, effective January 1, 1998.

In 1998,  Chevron changed its method of calculating  certain  Canadian  deferred
income taxes, effective January 1, 1998. The benefit from this change was $32.

The net  benefit to  Chevron's  1998 net income  from the  cumulative  effect of
adopting  SOP 98-5 by Caltex and the change in Chevron's  method of  calculating
Canadian deferred taxes was immaterial.

Note 4. INFORMATION RELATING TO THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
The  Consolidated  Statement of Cash Flows  excludes the  following  significant
noncash transactions.

During 1999,  the company  acquired the  Rutherford-Moran  Oil  Corporation  and
Petrolera  Argentina  San  Jorge  S.A.  Only  the net  cash  component  of these
transactions  is  included  as  "Capital  expenditures."  Consideration  for the
Rutherford-Moran  transaction  included  1.1  million  shares  of the  company's
treasury stock valued at $91.

During  1997,  the  company's  Venice,  Louisiana,   natural  gas  facility  was
contributed  to  a  partnership  with  Dynegy  Inc.  (Dynegy).  An  increase  in
"Investments  and  advances"   resulted   primarily  from  the  contribution  of
properties,  plant and equipment.

The major components of "Capital  expenditures" in the Consolidated Statement of
Cash  Flows  and  the  reconciliation  of  this  amount  to  total  capital  and
exploratory expenditures, are presented in the following table.



Note 5. STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
Retained  earnings at December  31,  1999 and 1998,  include  $2,048 and $2,121,
respectively,  for the  company's  share of  undistributed  earnings  of  equity
affiliates.

In 1998, the company  declared a dividend  distribution of one Right to purchase
Chevron  Participating  Preferred Stock. The Rights will be exercisable,  unless
redeemed earlier by the company,  if a person or group acquires,  or obtains the
right to acquire,  10 percent or more of the outstanding  shares of common stock
or  commences  a tender or  exchange  offer that would  result in  acquiring  10
percent  or more  of the  outstanding  shares  of  common  stock,  either  event
occurring without the prior consent of the company. The amount of Chevron Series
A  Participating  Preferred  Stock  that the  holder of a Right is  entitled  to
receive and the purchase  price  payable upon  exercise of the Chevron Right are
both subject to  adjustment.  The person or group who had acquired 10 percent or
more of the outstanding  shares of common stock without the prior consent of the
company would not be entitled to this purchase.

The Rights will expire in November  2008, or they may be redeemed by the company
at 1 cent per  Right  prior to that  date.  The  Rights  do not have  voting  or
dividend rights and, until they become  exercisable,  have no dilutive effect on
the  earnings per share of the company.  Five  million  shares of the  company's
preferred stock have been designated Series A Participating  Preferred Stock and
reserved for issuance upon exercise of the Rights. No event during 1999 made the
Rights exercisable. Rights associated with a 1988 dividend distribution expired
in 1998.

Note 6. FINANCIAL AND DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS
Off-Balance-Sheet Risk
The company  utilizes a variety of derivative  instruments,  both  financial and
commodity-based,  as hedges to manage a small  portion of its  exposure to price
volatility  stemming  from  its  integrated  petroleum  activities.   Relatively
straightforward  and involving  little  complexity,  the derivative  instruments
consist mainly of futures  contracts traded on the New York Mercantile  Exchange
and the International  Petroleum Exchange and of both crude and natural gas swap
contracts  entered  into  principally  with major  financial  institutions.  The
futures contracts hedge anticipated





                                     FS-19


Note 6. FINANCIAL AND DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS - Continued
crude oil purchases  and sales and product  sales,  generally  forecast to occur
within  a 60- to  90-day  period.  Crude  oil  swaps  are  used to  hedge  sales
forecasted to occur within the next four years.  The terms of the swap contracts
have  maturities  of the same  period.  Natural gas swaps are used  primarily to
hedge  firmly  committed  sales,  and the  terms of the swap  contracts  held at
year-end 1999 had an average remaining  maturity of 58 months.  Gains and losses
on these derivative instruments offset and are recognized in income concurrently
with the recognition of the underlying physical transactions.

In addition,  the company in 1998 entered into managed  programs using swaps and
options  to take  advantage  of  perceived  opportunities  for  favorable  price
movements in natural gas. The results of these programs were reflected in income
and  were not  material  in 1998.  The  company  enters  into  forward  exchange
contracts,  generally  with terms of 90 days or less, as a hedge against some of
its foreign currency  exposures,  primarily  anticipated  purchase  transactions
forecasted to occur within 90 days.

The company  enters into interest rate swaps as part of its overall  strategy to
manage the  interest  rate risk on its debt.  Under the terms of the swaps,  net
cash settlements,  based on the difference  between fixed-rate and floating-rate
interest amounts  calculated by reference to agreed notional  principal amounts,
are made  semiannually  and are recorded monthly as "Interest and debt expense."
At December 31, 1999, there was one outstanding contract,  with a remaining term
of five years and six months.

Concentrations of Credit Risk
The company's financial instruments that are exposed to concentrations of credit
risk  consist  primarily  of  its  cash  equivalents,   marketable   securities,
derivative financial instruments and trade receivables.

The company's  short-term  investments are placed with a wide array of financial
institutions with high credit ratings. This diversified investment policy limits
the company's exposure both to credit risk and to concentrations of credit risk.
Similar standards of diversity and creditworthiness are applied to the company's
counterparties in derivative instruments.

The trade receivable balances,  reflecting the company's  diversified sources of
revenue,  are dispersed among the company's broad customer base worldwide.  As a
consequence,  concentrations  of credit risk are limited.  The company routinely
assesses  the  financial  strength  of its  customers.  Letters  of  credit,  or
negotiated contracts when the financial strength of a customer is not considered
sufficient, are the principal securities obtained to support lines of credit.

Fair Value
Fair values are derived either from quoted market prices where  available or, in
their  absence,  the present value of the expected  cash flows.  The fair values
reflect the cash that would have been received or paid if the  instruments  were
settled at  year-end.  At  December  31,  1999 and 1998,  the fair values of the
financial and derivative instruments were:

Long-term  debt of $2,449  and $1,403 had  estimated  fair  values of $2,430 and
$1,485.

The notional principal amounts of the interest rate swaps totaled $350 and $700,
with  approximate  fair values totaling $11 and $(21).  The notional  amounts of
these and other derivative instruments do not represent assets or liabilities of
the company but,  rather,  are the basis for the settlements  under the contract
terms.

The company holds cash  equivalents  and U.S.  dollar  marketable  securities in
domestic and offshore  portfolios.  Eurodollar bonds,  floating-rate notes, time
deposits and commercial paper are the primary instruments held. Cash equivalents
and  marketable  securities  had fair  values of  $1,762  and  $1,206.  Of these
balances,  $1,075 and $362 classified as cash equivalents had average maturities
under 90 days,  while the remainder,  classified as marketable  securities,  had
average maturities of approximately three years and two years.

For other derivatives the contract or notional values were as follows: Crude oil
and products  futures had net contract values of $143 and $33.  Forward exchange
contracts had contract  values of $123 and $180. Gas swap contracts are based on
notional gas volumes of  approximately  44 and 67 billion cubic feet.  Crude oil
swap  contracts are based on notional crude volumes of  approximately  9 million
barrels.  Fair values for all of these derivatives were not material in 1999 and
1998.  Deferred gains and losses that were accrued on the  Consolidated  Balance
Sheet were not material.

Note 7. SUMMARIZED FINANCIAL DATA - CHEVRON U.S.A. INC.
At December 31, 1999,  Chevron  U.S.A.  Inc. was Chevron's  principal  operating
company,  consisting  primarily  of its  U.S.  integrated  petroleum  operations
(excluding most of the domestic pipeline  operations) and, effective February 1,
1998, the majority of its worldwide  petrochemicals  operations.  In 1999, these
operations  were  conducted   primarily  by  three  divisions:   Chevron  U.S.A.
Production  Company,  Chevron Products Company and Chevron Chemical Company LLC.
Summarized  financial  information for Chevron U.S.A.  Inc. and its consolidated
subsidiaries is presented below.




The primary  cause of the reduction in net equity from 1998 to 1999 was a return
of $2,000 of capital to Chevron Corporation in exchange for a loan.

Note 8. SUMMARIZED FINANCIAL DATA - CHEVRON TRANSPORT CORPORATION LIMITED
Effective July 1999, Chevron Transport Corporation, a Liberian corporation,  was
merged into Chevron Transport  Corporation Limited (CTC), a Bermuda corporation,
which assumed all of the assets and liabilities of





                                     FS-20


Note 8.  SUMMARIZED  FINANCIAL DATA - CHEVRON  TRANSPORT  CORPORATION  LIMITED -
Continued

Chevron Transport  Corporation.  CTC is an indirect,  wholly owned subsidiary of
Chevron  Corporation.  CTC is the principal operator of Chevron's  international
tanker  fleet and is  engaged in the marine  transportation  of oil and  refined
petroleum  products.  Most of CTC's  shipping  revenue is  derived by  providing
transportation  services to other Chevron  companies.  Chevron  Corporation  has
guaranteed  this  subsidiary's  obligations  in  connection  with  certain  debt
securities  where  CTC  is  deemed  to be an  issuer.  In  accordance  with  the
Securities  and  Exchange  Commission's  disclosure   requirements,   summarized
financial  information  for CTC and its  consolidated  subsidiaries is presented
below. This information was derived from the financial  statements prepared on a
stand-alone basis in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.

During 1999,  CTC's parent  contributed  an additional  $62 of paid-in  capital.
Separate CTC financial  statements and other  disclosures  are omitted,  as such
information is not material to investors in the debt securities deemed issued by
CTC. There were no  restrictions on CTC's ability to pay dividends or make loans
or advances at December 31, 1999.





Note 9. OPERATING SEGMENTS AND GEOGRAPHIC DATA
Chevron  manages  its  exploration  and  production;   refining,  marketing  and
transportation;  and chemicals  businesses  separately.  The  company's  primary
country of  operation  is the  United  States,  its  country  of  domicile.  The
remainder of the company's operations is reported as International  (outside the
United States),  since its activities in no other country meet the  requirements
for separate disclosure.

In February  2000,  Chevron and Phillips  Petroleum  Company  signed a letter of
intent and exclusivity  agreement to combine most of their chemicals  businesses
in a joint venture. Each company will own 50 percent of the joint venture, which
would have had 1999 sales of $6,000 and is expected to have total  assets of
about $6,000. The combination is subject to final approval of the companies'
boards of directors, signing of definitive agreements and regulatory review, all
of which are expected to be completed by mid-2000.

Segment Earnings
The company evaluates the performance of its operating  segments on an after-tax
basis,  without  considering the effects of debt financing  interest  expense or
investment  interest  income,  both of which are managed by the corporation on a
worldwide basis. Corporate  administrative costs and assets are not allocated to
the operating segments;  instead,  operating segments are billed only for direct
corporate  services.  Nonbillable  costs  remain as corporate  center  expenses.
After-tax  segment  operating  earnings  for the years  1999,  1998 and 1997 are
presented in the following table.



Segment Assets
Segment  assets  do  not  include   intercompany   investments  or  intercompany
receivables.  "All  Other"  assets  consist  primarily  of  worldwide  cash  and
marketable securities, company real estate, information systems, and coal mining
assets. Segment assets at year-end 1999 and 1998 are as follows.







                                     FS-21


Note 9. OPERATING SEGMENTS AND GEOGRAPHIC DATA
- - Continued

Segment Income Taxes
Segment  income tax expenses for the years 1999,  1998 and
1997 are as follows.



Segment Sales and Other Operating Revenues
Revenues for the exploration and production  segments are derived primarily from
the  production  of  crude  oil and  natural  gas.  Revenues  for the  refining,
marketing  and  transportation  segments  are  derived  from  the  refining  and
marketing of petroleum products such as gasoline,  jet fuel, gas oils, kerosene,
residual fuel oils and other products  derived from crude oil. This segment also
generates  revenues from the transportation and trading of crude oil and refined
products.  Chemicals  segment revenues are derived from the manufacture and sale
of petrochemicals, plastic resins, and lube oil and fuel additives.

"All Other" activities include corporate  administrative  costs,  worldwide cash
management  and debt financing  activities,  coal mining  operations,  insurance
operations, and real estate activities.

Reportable  operating  segment  sales and other  operating  revenues,  including
internal transfers, for the years 1999, 1998 and 1997 are presented in the table
that  follows.  Sales from the  transfer of  products  between  segments  are at
estimated market prices.



Other Segment Information
Investments  in and  earnings  from  affiliated  companies  are  included in the
segments  in which the  affiliates  operate.  Dynegy  Inc.  is  included in U.S.
exploration and production, P.T.   Caltex  Pacific   Indonesia  (CPI)  and
Tengizchevroil  (TCO) are included in International  exploration and production,
and Caltex  Corporation  is included in  International  refining,  marketing and
transportation. The company's other affiliates are not material to any segment's
assets or results of  operations.  Information on equity  affiliates,  including
carrying  value and  equity  earnings,  is  included  in Note 12.

Additions to long-lived assets and depreciation  expense,  by operating segment,
are included in Note 13.




                                     FS-22


Note 10. LITIGATION
The company is a party, along with other oil companies, to numerous lawsuits and
claims,  including  actions  challenging  oil and gas royalty and  severance tax
payments based on posted prices,  and actions related to the use of the chemical
MTBE in certain oxygenated gasolines.  In some of these actions,  plaintiffs may
seek to  recover  large  and  sometimes  unspecified  amounts.  In  others,  the
plaintiffs  may seek to have the company  perform  specific  actions,  including
remediation of alleged damages.  These matters may remain unresolved for several
years,  and it is not practical to estimate a range of possible  loss.  Although
losses  could  be  material  with  respect  to  earnings  in any  given  period,
management  believes  that  resolution  of these  matters will not result in any
significant  liability to the company in relation to its  consolidated financial
position or have a significant effect on its liquidity.

In a lawsuit in Los Angeles, Calif., brought in 1995, the company and five other
oil  companies  are  contesting  the  validity  of a patent  granted  to  Unocal
Corporation  (Unocal)  for certain  types of  reformulated  gasoline,  which the
company sells in California  during  certain  months of the year.  The first two
phases of the trial were concluded in 1997, with the jury upholding the validity
of the  patent  and  assessing  damages  at the rate of 5.75 cents per gallon of
gasoline  produced in  infringement  of the patent  between  March 1 and July 1,
1996. In the third phase of the trial,  the judge heard evidence to determine if
the patent was enforceable. In 1998, the judge ruled the patent was enforceable.
The  defendants  filed an appeal in January  1999 and oral  arguments  were made
before the court in July 1999.  While the ultimate outcome of this matter cannot
be determined with certainty,  the company  believes  Unocal's patent is invalid
and any  unfavorable  rulings  should be reversed  upon appeal.  Unocal also has
filed for  additional  patents  for  alternate  formulations.  Should the jury's
finding and  Unocal's  patent  ultimately  be upheld,  the  company's  financial
exposure includes royalties, plus interest, for past production of gasoline that
is ruled to have  infringed the applicable  patent and royalty  payments for any
future  production  of  gasoline  that  infringes  this  patent.  The  effect of
unfavorable  rulings with  respect to future  reformulated  gasoline  production
would depend on the  availability of alternate  formulations  and the industry's
ability to recover  additional costs of production through prices charged to its
customers.  The company believes that its ultimate  exposure in this matter will
not materially affect its financial position or liquidity, although the costs of
resolution of any unfavorable  ruling could be material with respect to earnings
in any given period.

Note 11. LEASE COMMITMENTS
Certain  noncancelable  leases are classified as capital leases,  and the leased
assets are included as part of "Properties,  plant and equipment."  Other leases
are  classified  as  operating  leases and are not  capitalized.  Details of the
capitalized leased assets are as follows.



Rental expenses incurred for operating leases during 1999, 1998 and 1997 were as
follows.



At December 31, 1999,  the future  minimum lease  payments  under  operating and
capital leases are as follows.



Contingent  rentals  are  based  on  factors  other  than the  passage  of time,
principally  sales volumes at leased  service  stations.  Certain leases include
escalation  clauses for adjusting  rentals to reflect  changes in price indices,
renewal  options  ranging from one to 25 years,  and/or  options to purchase the
leased  property  during or at the end of the initial  lease period for the fair
market value at that time.

Note 12. INVESTMENTS AND ADVANCES
Chevron owns 50 percent each of P.T.  Caltex Pacific  Indonesia,  an exploration
and  production  company  operating in  Indonesia;  Caltex  Corporation,  which,
through  its  subsidiaries  and  affiliates,  conducts  refining  and  marketing
activities in Asia,  Africa,  the Middle East,  Australia  and New Zealand;  and
American Overseas  Petroleum  Limited,  which,  through its subsidiary,  manages
certain of the  company's  operations in  Indonesia.  These  companies and their
subsidiaries and affiliates are collectively called the Caltex Group.

Tengizchevroil (TCO) is a joint venture formed in 1993 to develop the Tengiz and
Korolev oil fields in Kazakhstan over a 40-year period.  Chevron's ownership was
reduced  from 50 percent to 45 percent in April 1997 through a sale of a portion
of its interest.  The company has an obligation of $420, payable to the Republic
of  Kazakhstan  upon  the  attainment  of a  dedicated  export  system  with the
capability of the greater of 260,000 barrels of oil per day or TCO's  production
capacity.  This  amount  was  included  in the value of the  investment,  as the
company  believed at the time,  and  continues  to believe,  that its payment is
beyond a reasonable doubt given the original intent and continuing commitment






                                     FS-23


Note 12. INVESTMENTS AND ADVANCES - Continued
of both parties to realizing the full  potential of the venture over its 40-year
life.

Chevron owns 28 percent of Dynegy Inc., a gatherer,  processor,  transporter and
marketer of energy  products  in North  America  and the United  Kingdom.  These
products  include natural gas,  natural gas liquids,  crude oil and electricity.
The market  value of  Chevron's  shares of Dynegy  common  stock at December 31,
1999, was $1,133 based on quoted closing market prices. In February 2000, Dynegy
completed a merger with Illinova Corporation, an energy services holding company
in Illinois.  Chevron  increased its investment by $200 to maintain a 28 percent
ownership in the merged company.

The company received dividends and distributions of $268, $254 and $335 in 1999,
1998 and 1997,  respectively,  including  $212,  $167 and $207  from the  Caltex
Group.  During 1998, Dynegy repaid a $155 loan from Chevron,  which is reflected
as a decrease in the company's investment in the affiliate.

The company's transactions with affiliated companies are summarized in the table
that follows.  These are primarily for the purchase of Indonesian crude oil from
CPI,  the sale of crude oil and  products to Caltex  Corporation's  refining and
marketing  companies,  the sale of natural  gas to Dynegy,  and the  purchase of
natural gas and natural gas liquids from Dynegy.

"Accounts and notes  receivable" in the Consolidated  Balance Sheet include $277
and $156 at  December  31,  1999 and 1998,  respectively,  of  amounts  due from
affiliated  companies.  "Accounts  payable" includes $53 and $41 at December 31,
1999 and 1998, respectively, of amounts due to affiliated companies.



Equity in  earnings,  together  with  investments  in and  advances to companies
accounted for using the equity method, and other investments accounted for at or
below cost, are as follows.



The following tables summarize the combined financial information for the Caltex
Group and all of the other  equity-method  companies,  together  with  Chevron's
share. Amounts shown for the affiliates are 100 percent.






                                     FS-24


Note 13. PROPERTIES, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT


Note 14. TAXES


U.S.  federal  income tax expense was reduced by $89, $84 and $93 in 1999,  1998
and 1997, respectively, for low-income housing and other business tax credits.

In 1999,  before-tax income,  including related corporate and other charges, for
U.S.  operations was $1,254,  compared with $728 in 1998 and $2,054 in 1997. For
international  operations,  before-tax  income was $2,394,  $1,106 and $3,448 in
1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

The deferred income tax provisions included costs of $788, $470 and $304 related
to properties, plant and equipment in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.



The company's  effective income tax rate varied from the U.S.  statutory federal
income tax rate because of the following.






                                     FS-25


Note 14. TAXES - Continued

The increase in the 1999 effective tax rate from the prior year is primarily due
to increased  foreign  taxes on higher  foreign  earnings in 1999  compared with
1998.  Additional  increases  in the  effective  tax rate in 1999  were from tax
credits as a smaller  proportion of before-tax income in 1999 than 1998 and from
less  beneficial  prior-period  tax  adjustments on the 1998 tax return compared
with the 1997 tax  return.  The other  effects  on the 1999  effective  tax rate
include settlement of outstanding issues, utilization of additional capital loss
benefits and permanent  differences.  These factors were slightly  offset by the
effect of lower taxable income received from equity affiliates in 1999.

The  company  records  its  deferred  taxes  on  a  tax-jurisdiction  basis  and
classifies those net amounts as current or noncurrent based on the balance sheet
classification of the related assets or liabilities.

At  December  31,  1999  and  1998,   deferred  taxes  were  classified  in  the
Consolidated Balance Sheet as follows.



The reported  deferred tax balances are composed of the  following  deferred tax
liabilities (assets).




It is the company's  policy for subsidiaries  included in the U.S.  consolidated
tax return to record  income tax expense as though they filed  separately,  with
the parent  recording  the  adjustment  to income tax expense for the effects of
consolidation.

Undistributed earnings of international consolidated subsidiaries and affiliates
for which no deferred  income tax  provision  has been made for possible  future
remittances totaled approximately $4,602 at December 31, 1999. Substantially all
of this amount represents  earnings  reinvested as part of the company's ongoing
business.  It is not  practical  to  estimate  the amount of taxes that might be
payable on the eventual  remittance of such  earnings.  On  remittance,  certain
countries impose  withholding taxes that,  subject to certain  limitations,  are
then available for use as tax credits against a U.S. tax liability,  if any. The
company estimates  withholding taxes of approximately $187 would be payable upon
remittance of these earnings.

Note 15. SHORT-TERM DEBT
Redeemable long-term  obligations consist primarily of tax-exempt  variable-rate
put  bonds  that  are  included  as  current  liabilities  because  they  become
redeemable  at the  option of the  bondholders  during  the year  following  the
balance sheet date.

The company has entered into interest rate swaps on a portion of its  short-term
debt. At December 31, 1999 and 1998, the company had swapped notional amounts of
$350 and $700 of floating rate debt to fixed rates. The effect of these swaps on
the company's interest expense was not material.


Note 16. LONG-TERM DEBT
Chevron has three "shelf" registrations on file with the Securities and Exchange
Commission  that together would permit the issuance of $2,800 of debt securities
pursuant to Rule 415 of the Securities Act of 1933.

At year-end 1999,  the company had $4,750 of committed  credit  facilities  with
banks  worldwide,  $2,725 of which had  termination  dates beyond one year.  The
facilities  support  the  company's  commercial  paper  borrowings.  Interest on
borrowings  under the terms of  specific  agreements  may be based on the London
Interbank  Offered Rate, the Reserve  Adjusted  Domestic  Certificate of Deposit
Rate,  or bank prime  rate.  No amounts  were  outstanding  under  these  credit
agreements during the year or at year-end.

At December 31, 1999 and 1998, the company  classified $2,725 of short-term debt
as long-term. Settlement of these obligations is not expected to require the use
of working  capital in 2000 as the  company  has both the intent and  ability to
refinance this debt on a long-term basis.

Consolidated  long-term  debt maturing in each of the five years after  December
31,  1999,  is  as  follows:  2000-$127,  2001-$285,  2002-$172,  2003-$184  and
2004-$1,134.





                                     FS-26


Note 16.LONG-TERM DEBT - Continued



Note 17. OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
The  components  of changes in other  comprehensive  income and the  related tax
effects are shown below.



Note 18. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

Pension Plans
The company has defined  benefit  pension plans for most  employees and provides
for  certain  health  care and life  insurance  plans for active and  qualifying
retired  employees.  The  company's  policy is to fund the minimum  necessary to
satisfy  requirements  of the Employee  Retirement  Income  Security Act for the
company's  pension plans.  The company's  annual  contributions  for medical and
dental  benefits are limited to the lesser of actual medical claims or a defined
fixed per-capita amount.  Life insurance  benefits are paid by the company,  and
annual contributions are based on actual plan experience.  Nonfunded pension and
postretirement  benefits are paid directly  when  incurred;  accordingly,  these
payments are not reflected as changes in Plan assets in the table below.

The status of the company's pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans
for 1999 and 1998 is as follows.







                                     FS-27


Note 18. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS - Continued
For measurement  purposes,  separate health care cost-trend  rates were used for
pre-age 65 and  post-age  65  retirees.  The 2000  annual  rates of change  were
assumed  to be 5.2  percent  and 9.7  percent,  respectively,  before  gradually
converging to the average  ultimate rate of 5.0 percent in 2021 for both pre-age
65 and post-age  65. A  one-percentage-point  change in the assumed  health care
rates would have had the following effects.



The components of net periodic benefit cost for 1999,
1998 and 1997 were:



The projected benefit obligation, accumulated benefit obligation, and fair value
of plan assets for pension plans with accumulated  benefit obligations in excess
of plan assets were $428, $368 and $80, respectively,  at December 31, 1999, and
$408, $364 and $87, respectively at December 31, 1998.

Profit Sharing/Savings Plan
Eligible  employees  of the  company and  certain of its  subsidiaries  who have
completed  one year of service  may  participate  in the Profit  Sharing/Savings
Plan.   Charges  to  expense  for  the  profit   sharing   part  of  the  Profit
Sharing/Savings Plan were $86, $60 and $79 in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.
Commencing in October 1997, the company's  Savings Plus Plan  contributions  are
being funded with leveraged ESOP shares.

Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP)
In December 1989, the company established a leveraged ESOP as part of the Profit
Sharing/Savings  Plan.  The ESOP Trust Fund borrowed  $1,000 and purchased  28.2
million previously  unissued shares of the company's common stock. In June 1999,
the ESOP  borrowed  $25 at 6.98  percent  interest,  using the  proceeds  to pay
interest due on the existing  ESOP debt. In July 1999,  the company's  leveraged
ESOP  issued  notes  of  $620 at an  average  interest  rate  of  7.42  percent,
guaranteed  by  Chevron  Corporation.  The debt  proceeds  were paid to  Chevron
Corporation  in exchange for  Chevron's  assumption of the existing 8.11 percent
ESOP long-term debt of $620 million.  The ESOP provides a partial  prefunding of
the company's future commitments to the Profit  Sharing/Savings Plan, which will
result in annual income tax savings for the company.

As permitted by AICPA  Statement of Position  93-6,  "Employers'  Accounting for
Employee  Stock  Ownership  Plans," the  company  has  elected to  continue  its
practices,  which are based on Statement of Position 76-3, "Accounting Practices
for Certain  Employee Stock  Ownership  Plans" and  subsequent  consensus of the
Emerging  Issues  Task  Force  of  the  Financial  Accounting  Standards  Board.
Accordingly,  the debt of the ESOP is  recorded as debt,  and shares  pledged as
collateral are reported as deferred  compensation  in the  Consolidated  Balance
Sheet and Statement of Stockholders'  Equity.  The company reports  compensation
expense equal to the ESOP debt principal  repayments less dividends  received by
the ESOP.  Interest  incurred on the ESOP debt is recorded as interest  expense.
Dividends paid on ESOP shares are reflected as a reduction of retained earnings.
All ESOP shares are considered outstanding for earnings-per-share computations.

The company  recorded expense for the ESOP of $84, $58 and $53 in 1999, 1998 and
1997,  respectively,  including $49, $56 and $61 of interest  expense related to
the ESOP debt.  All  dividends  paid on the shares  held by the ESOP are used to
service the ESOP debt.  The dividends  used were $33, $57 and $57 in 1999,  1998
and 1997, respectively.

The company made contributions to the ESOP of $64, $60 and $55 in 1999, 1998 and
1997, respectively, to satisfy ESOP debt service in excess of dividends received
by the ESOP. The ESOP shares were pledged as collateral for its debt. Shares are
released  from a  suspense  account  and  allocated  to  the  accounts  of  Plan
participants,  based  on the  debt  service  deemed  to be paid  in the  year in
proportion to the total of current year and remaining  debt service.  The charge
(credit) to  compensation  expense was $36, $2 and $(8) in 1999,  1998 and 1997,
respectively. The ESOP shares as of December 31, 1999 and 1998, were as follows.

Thousands                    1999     1998
- ------------------------------------------
Allocated shares           10,785   10,819
Unallocated shares         12,963   14,087
- ------------------------------------------
Total ESOP shares          23,748   24,906
==========================================

Management Incentive Plans
The company has two incentive plans, the Management Incentive Plan (MIP) and the
Long-Term  Incentive  Plan  (LTIP)  for  officers  and  other  regular  salaried
employees of the company and its  subsidiaries who hold positions of significant
responsibility.  The MIP is an annual cash  incentive  plan that links awards to
performance  results  of the prior  year.  The cash  awards may be  deferred  by
conversion  to stock units or,  beginning  with awards  deferred in 1996,  stock
units or other investment fund alternatives.  Awards under the LTIP may take the
form of, but are not limited to, stock options,  restricted  stock,  stock units
and nonstock grants. Charges to expense for the combined man-







                                     FS-28


Note 18. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS - Continued

agement incentive plans,  excluding expense related to LTIP stock options, which
is discussed in Note 19, "Stock  Options,"  were $41, $28 and $55 in 1999,  1998
and 1997, respectively.

Chevron Success Sharing
The company has a program that provides  eligible  employees with an annual cash
bonus if the company  achieves certain  financial and safety goals.  Until 2000,
the total  maximum  payout  under the  program  was 8 percent of the  employee's
annual salary.  Charges for the program were $47, $51 and $116 in 1999, 1998 and
1997,  respectively.  In 2000, the maximum payout under the program increases to
10 percent.

Note 19. STOCK OPTIONS
The company applies APB Opinion No. 25 and related interpretations in accounting
for stock options awarded under its  Broad-Based  Employee Stock Option Programs
and its Long-Term Incentive Plan, which are described below.

Had  compensation  cost for the company's stock options been determined based on
the fair  market  value at the grant  dates of the  awards  consistent  with the
methodology  prescribed  by SFAS No. 123, the  company's net income and earnings
per share for 1999,  1998 and 1997 would have been the pro forma  amounts  shown
below.



The  effects  of  applying  SFAS No.  123 in this pro forma  disclosure  are not
indicative  of future  amounts.  SFAS No.  123 does not apply to awards  granted
prior to 1995. In addition,  certain options vest over several years, and awards
in future years, whose terms and conditions may vary, are anticipated.

Long-Term Incentive Plan
Stock options  granted  under the LTIP are generally  awarded at market price on
the date of grant and are  exercisable  not earlier  than one year and not later
than 10 years from the date of grant.  However,  a portion  of the LTIP  options
granted in 1996 had terms similar to the  broad-based  employee  stock  options,
which are  described in the  following  table.  The maximum  number of shares of
common stock that may be granted each year is 1 percent of the total outstanding
shares of common stock as of January 1 of such year.

A summary of the  status of stock  options  awarded  under the  company's  LTIP,
excluding  awards granted with terms similar to the  broad-based  employee stock
options, for 1999, 1998 and 1997 follows.



The weighted-average fair market value of options granted in 1999, 1998 and 1997
was $20.40, $21.10 and $17.64 per share, respectively.  The fair market value of
each  option  on the  date  of  grant  was  estimated  using  the  Black-Scholes
option-pricing  model with the following  assumptions  for 1999,  1998 and 1997,
respectively:  risk-free  interest  rate of 5.5, 4.5 and 6.1  percent;  dividend
yield of 3.0, 3.1 and 2.8 percent; volatility of 20.1, 28.6 and 15.2 percent and
expected life of seven years in all years.

As of December 31, 1999,  9,602,900  shares were under option at exercise prices
ranging  from  $31.9375  to $99.75 per share.  The  following  table  summarizes
information  about stock options  outstanding  under the LTIP,  excluding awards
granted  with terms  similar  to the  broad-based  employee  stock  options,  at
December 31, 1999.



Broad-Based Employee Stock Options
In 1996, the company granted to all eligible  employees an option for 150 shares
of stock or equivalents at an exercise price of $51.875 per share.  In addition,
a  portion  of the  awards  granted  under  the LTIP had  terms  similar  to the
broad-based  employee  stock  options.  When the options were issued in February
1996, vesting was contingent upon one of two conditions being met: By Decem-







                                     FS-29


Note 19. STOCK OPTIONS - Continued
ber 31, 1998, the price of Chevron stock closed at or above $75.00 per share for
three consecutive business days or,  alternatively,  the company had the highest
annual  total  stockholder  return of its  competitor  group for the years  1994
through 1998. The options  vested in June 1997 when the share price  performance
condition was met.

Options for 7,204,800 shares, including similar-termed LTIP awards, were granted
in 1996.  Forfeitures  of options for 820,050  shares and exercises of 4,171,300
reduced the  outstanding  option  shares to 2,213,450  at December 31, 1997.  In
1998,  exercises  of  1,361,000  and  forfeitures  of  10,800  had  reduced  the
outstanding  option shares to 841,650 at year-end  1998.  In 1999,  exercises of
740,725,  forfeitures  of 61,850  and  expirations  of 39,075  had  reduced  the
outstanding  option  shares to zero at March 31, 1999,  the date of  expiration.
Under APB Opinion No. 25, the company recorded expenses of $(2), $0 and $125 for
these options in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

The fair market  value of each option  share on the date of grant under SFAS No.
123 was  estimated  at $5.66  using a  binomial  option-pricing  model  with the
following assumptions: risk-free interest rate of 5.1 percent, dividend yield of
4.2 percent, expected life of three years and a volatility of 20.9 percent.

In 1998, the company  announced a new broad-based  Employee Stock Option Program
that  granted to all  eligible  employees  an option that varied from 100 to 300
shares of stock or equivalents, dependent on the employee's salary or job grade.
These options were to vest in two years or, if the company had the highest total
stockholder  return among its competitor  group for the years 1994 through 1998,
in one year. Since the stockholders'  return performance  condition was not met,
the options vested in February 2000.  Options for 4,820,800  shares were awarded
at an exercise  price of $76.3125 per share.  Forfeitures of options for 854,550
shares reduced the outstanding  option shares to 3,966,250 at December 31, 1999,
at which date none was  exercisable.  The options  expire on February  11, 2008.
Under APB Opinion No. 25, the company  recorded  expenses of $4 and $2 for these
options in 1999 and 1998, respectively.

The fair value of each option  share on the date of grant under SFAS No. 123 was
estimated at $19.08 using the average  results of  Black-Scholes  models for the
preceding  10  years.  The  10-year  averages  of  each  assumption  used by the
Black-Sholes models were: risk-free interest rate of 7.0 percent, dividend yield
of 4.2 percent, expected life of seven years and a volatility of 24.7 percent.

Note 20. EARNINGS PER SHARE (EPS)
Basic EPS includes  the effects of  deferrals  of salary and other  compensation
awards  that are  invested  in  Chevron  stock  units by  certain  officers  and
employees of the company. Diluted EPS includes the effects of these deferrals as
well as the dilutive effects of outstanding stock options awarded under the LTIP
and  Broad-Based  Employee Stock Option Program (see Note 19, "Stock  Options").
The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted EPS.








                                     FS-30


Note 21.OTHER CONTINGENCIES AND COMMITMENTS
The U.S.  federal  income tax and  California  franchise tax  liabilities of the
company have been settled through 1990 and 1991, respectively.

Settlement of open tax years, as well as tax issues in other countries where the
company  conducts its  businesses,  is not expected to have a material effect on
the  consolidated  financial  position or  liquidity  of the company and, in the
opinion of management, adequate provision has been made for income and franchise
taxes for all years under examination or subject to future examination.

At December 31, 1999,  the company and its  subsidiaries,  as direct or indirect
guarantors,  had contingent liabilities of $25 for notes of affiliated companies
and $362 for notes of others.

The company and its subsidiaries have certain contingent liabilities relating to
long-term   unconditional  purchase  obligations  and  commitments,   throughput
agreements  and  take-or-pay  agreements,  some of which  relate  to  suppliers'
financing  arrangements.  The aggregate amounts of required payments under these
various commitments are: 2000-$228;  2001-$297; 2002-$270; 2003-$253; 2004-$225;
2005 and  after-$1,029.  Total payments under the agreements  were $258 in 1999,
$201 in 1998 and $243 in 1997.

The company is subject to loss contingencies  pursuant to environmental laws and
regulations that in the future may require the company to take action to correct
or ameliorate  the effects on the  environment  of prior  disposal or release of
chemical  or  petroleum  substances,  including  MTBE,  by the  company or other
parties.  Such  contingencies  may exist for various  sites  including,  but not
limited  to:  Superfund  sites and  refineries,  oil fields,  service  stations,
terminals,  and land development areas,  whether operating,  closed or sold. The
amount of such future cost is indeterminable  due to such factors as the unknown
magnitude  of  possible  contamination,  the  unknown  timing  and extent of the
corrective  actions that may be required,  the  determination  of the  company's
liability in proportion to other  responsible  parties,  and the extent to which
such costs are  recoverable  from third parties.  While the company has provided
for known environmental  obligations that are probable and reasonably estimable,
the amount of future  costs may be  material  to results  of  operations  in the
period in which they are recognized.  The company does not expect these costs to
have a material  effect on its  consolidated  financial  position or  liquidity.
Also,  the company does not believe its  obligations  to make such  expenditures
have had, or will have,  any  significant  impact on the  company's  competitive
position  relative to other  domestic  or  international  petroleum  or chemical
concerns.

The  company  believes  it  has  no  material  market  or  credit  risks  to its
operations,  financial  position or liquidity as a result of its commodities and
other derivatives  activities.  However, the results of operations and financial
position  of  certain  equity  affiliates  may be  affected  by  their  business
activities involving the use of derivative instruments.

The company's  operations,  particularly oil and gas exploration and production,
can be affected by changing economic,  regulatory and political  environments in
the various  countries,  including the United States,  in which it operates.  In
certain  locations,  host  governments have imposed  restrictions,  controls and
taxes,  and in others,  political  conditions have existed that may threaten the
safety of employees and the  company's  continued  presence in those  countries.
Internal unrest or strained  relations between a host government and the company
or other  governments may affect the company's  operations.  Those  developments
have,  at times,  significantly  affected the company's  operations  and related
results and are carefully  considered by management when evaluating the level of
current and future activity in such countries.

Areas in which the company has significant operations include the United States,
Canada,  Australia,  United Kingdom, Norway, Congo, Angola, Nigeria,  Democratic
Republic of Congo, Papua New Guinea, China, Indonesia,  Venezuela,  Thailand and
Argentina.  The  company's  Caltex  affiliates  have  significant  operations in
Indonesia,  Korea,  Australia,  Thailand,  the Philippines,  Singapore and South
Africa. The company's Tengizchevroil affiliate operates in Kazakhstan.

Note 22.EMPLOYEE TERMINATION BENEFITS AND OTHER RESTRUCTURING COSTS
The company recorded  before-tax  charges to income of $235 in 1999 for employee
termination  benefits  and other  restructuring  costs as part of a  companywide
staff reduction  program.  The charge includes  severance and other  termination
benefits of $220 for 3,472 employees and $82 for employee and office relocation,
lease termination  penalties,  and other items. These charges were offset partly
by $67 of  restructuring-related  net pension  settlement/curtailment  gains for
payments made to terminated employees.

The staff reduction program affects primarily  U.S.-based employees and is being
implemented in all of the company's  operating  segments across several business
functions.  All  identified  employees  will  be  separated  by June  30,  2000.
Termination  benefits for 3,070 of the 3,472  employees - accrued in  accordance
with SFAS No. 88,  "Employers'  Accounting for Settlements  and  Curtailments of
Defined  Benefit  Plans and for  Termination  Benefits" - are  payable  from the
assets of the  company's  U.S. and  Canadian  pension  plans.  Payments to other
employees are from company funds.  Accrual and payment activity for the employee
termination benefits is presented in the following table.



Of the $82  for  relocations,  lease  termination  penalties  and  other  costs,
approximately  13 percent  remained unpaid at the end of 1999. These charges and
the  restructuring-related  pension  gains  were  classified  mainly  as  either
"operating expense" or "selling,  general and administrative expense." Items are
either  accrued or recognized as incurred under the guidelines of EITF Issue No.
94-3, "Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other
Costs to Exit an Activity (including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring)"
or SFAS No. 88, as applicable.

The company's net income for 1999 also included its $25 share of a restructuring
charge recorded by Caltex.

                                     FS-31


SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION ON OIL AND GAS PRODUCING ACTIVITIES
Unaudited

In  accordance  with  Statement  of  Financial   Accounting  Standards  No.  69,
"Disclosures About Oil and Gas Producing Activities" (SFAS No. 69), this section
provides  supplemental  information  on oil and gas  exploration  and  producing
activities of the company in six separate  tables.  Tables I through III provide
historical  cost  information  pertaining  to  costs  incurred  in  exploration,
property  acquisitions  and  development;  capitalized  costs;  and  results  of
operations.  Tables IV through VI present information on the company's estimated
net proved  reserve  quantities,  standardized  measure of estimated  discounted
future  net cash flows  related to proved  reserves,  and  changes in  estimated
discounted future net cash flows. The Africa geographic area includes activities
principally  in Nigeria,  Angola,  Congo and Democratic  Republic of Congo.  The
"Other" geographic  category includes  activities in Australia,  Argentina,  the
United Kingdom North Sea, Canada, Papua New Guinea,  Venezuela,  China, Thailand
and other  countries.  Amounts shown for  affiliated  companies are Chevron's 50
percent equity share in P.T. Caltex Pacific  Indonesia (CPI), an exploration and
production company operating in Indonesia,  and its 45 percent (50 percent prior
to April  1997)  equity  share  of  Tengizchevroil  (TCO),  an  exploration  and
production partnership operating in the Republic of Kazakhstan.









                                     FS-32




TABLE III - RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR OIL AND GAS PRODUCING ACTIVITIES (1)

The company's  results of operations  from oil and gas producing  activities for
the years 1999, 1998 and 1997 are shown in the following table.

Net income from  exploration and production  activities as reported on page FS-7
reflects  income taxes computed on an effective rate basis.  In accordance  with
SFAS No.  69,  income  taxes in Table  III are  based on  statutory  tax  rates,
reflecting allowable deductions and tax credits.  Interest income and expense is
excluded from the results  reported in Table III and from the net income amounts
on page FS-7.







                                     FS-33





                                     FS-34




TABLE IV - RESERVE QUANTITY INFORMATION

The company's  estimated net proved underground oil and gas reserves and changes
thereto  for the years  1999,  1998 and 1997 are shown in the  following  table.
Proved  reserves  are  estimated  by  company  asset  teams  composed  of  earth
scientists and reservoir engineers.  These proved reserve estimates are reviewed
annually  by the  corporation's  Reserves  Advisory  Committee  to  ensure  that
rigorous professional  standards and the reserves definitions  prescribed by the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission are consistently  applied throughout the
company.

Proved reserves are the estimated  quantities that geologic and engineering data
demonstrate  with  reasonable  certainty to be  recoverable in future years from
known reservoirs under existing  economic and operating  conditions.  Due to the
inherent  uncertainties  and the limited nature of reservoir data,  estimates of
underground  reserves are subject to change as  additional  information  becomes
available.

Proved reserves do not include additional quantities recoverable beyond the term
of the  lease  or  concession  agreement  that may  result  from  extensions  of
currently proved areas or from applying secondary or tertiary recovery processes
not yet tested and determined to be economic.

Proved developed  reserves are the quantities  expected to be recovered  through
existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods.

"Net"  reserves  exclude  royalties  and  interests  owned by others and reflect
contractual  arrangements  and royalty  obligations in effect at the time of the
estimate.

In June 1997, Chevron assumed  operatorship under a risked service agreement for
Venezuela's  Block LL-652,  located in the northeast  section of Lake Maracaibo.
Chevron is accounting for LL-652 as an oil and gas activity and, at December 31,
1999, had recorded 54 million barrels of proved crude oil reserves.

No  reserve  quantities  have been  recorded  for the  company's  other  service
agreement in Venezuela, which began in 1996, involving the Boscan Field.



                                     FS-35




TABLE V -  STANDARDIZED  MEASURE OF DISCOUNTED  FUTURE NET CASH FLOWS RELATED TO
PROVED OIL AND GAS RESERVES

The  standardized  measure of discounted  future net cash flows,  related to the
above  proved  oil and gas  reserves,  is  calculated  in  accordance  with  the
requirements of SFAS No. 69.  Estimated  future cash inflows from production are
computed by applying  year-end prices for oil and gas to year-end  quantities of
estimated  net  proved  reserves.  Future  price  changes  are  limited to those
provided by contractual  arrangements  in existence at the end of each reporting
year.  Future  development  and  production  costs  are those  estimated  future
expenditures necessary to develop and produce year-end estimated proved reserves
based on year-end  cost  indices,  assuming  continuation  of year-end  economic
conditions. Estimated future income taxes are calculated by applying appropriate
year-end statutory tax rates.  These rates reflect allowable  deductions and tax
credits and are applied to estimated future pretax net cash flows,  less the tax
basis of related assets.  Discounted  future net cash flows are calculated using
10 percent  midperiod  discount  factors.  Discounting  requires a  year-by-year
estimate of when future  expenditures will be incurred and when reserves will be
produced.

The  information  provided  does  not  represent  management's  estimate  of the
company's  expected  future cash flows or value of proved oil and gas  reserves.
Estimates of proved reserve quantities are imprecise and change over time as new
information becomes available.  Moreover,  probable and possible reserves, which
may  become  proved in the  future,  are  excluded  from the  calculations.  The
arbitrary valuation  prescribed under SFAS No. 69 requires assumptions as to the
timing and amount of future  development and production  costs. The calculations
are  made as of  December  31 each  year and  should  not be  relied  upon as an
indication  of the  company's  future  cash  flows  or  value of its oil and gas
reserves.



                                     FS-36






The changes in present values between years,  which can be significant,  reflect
changes in estimated  proved reserve  quantities and prices and assumptions used
in forecasting production volumes and costs. Changes in the timing of production
are included with "Revisions of previous quantity estimates."




                                     FS-37


FIVE-YEAR FINANCIAL SUMMARY (1)





                                     FS-38





















                            CALTEX GROUP OF COMPANIES
                          COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


                                December 31, 1999




                                      C-1





                            CALTEX GROUP OF COMPANIES
                          COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                DECEMBER 31, 1999





                                      INDEX





                                                       Page

General Information                                    C-3 - C-5

Independent Auditors' Report                           C-6

Combined Balance Sheet                                 C-7 - C-8

Combined Statement of Income                           C-9

Combined Statement of Comprehensive Income             C-9

Combined Statement of Stockholders' Equity             C-10

Combined Statement of Cash Flows                       C-11

Notes to Combined Financial Statements                 C-12 - C-24


















Note:  Financial  statement  schedules are omitted as permitted by Rule 4.03 and
Rule 5.04 of Regulation S-X.





                                      C-2




                            CALTEX GROUP OF COMPANIES
                               GENERAL INFORMATION


      The Caltex Group of Companies (Group) is jointly owned 50% each by Chevron
Corporation and Texaco Inc. (collectively,  the Stockholders) and was created in
1936 by its two owners to produce,  transport,  refine and market  crude oil and
petroleum products. The Group is comprised of the following companies:

o    Caltex Corporation,  a company  incorporated in Delaware with its corporate
     headquarters  in  Singapore,   that,  through  its  many  subsidiaries  and
     affiliates,  conducts  refining,   transporting,   trading,  and  marketing
     activities in the Eastern Hemisphere;

o    P. T. Caltex  Pacific  Indonesia,  an exploration  and  production  company
     incorporated and operating in Indonesia; and,

o    American Overseas Petroleum Limited, a company incorporated in the Bahamas.

A brief  description of each company's  operations and other items follows.  All
reported amounts are in U.S. dollars.


Caltex Corporation (Caltex)
- --------------------------

      Through its subsidiaries and affiliates,  Caltex operates in approximately
55 countries,  principally  in Africa,  Asia,  the Middle East,  New Zealand and
Australia.  These  geographic  areas  comprise  a  broad  diversity  of  mature,
developing,  and emerging  markets.  At the end of 1999,  it had total assets of
$7.9 billion,  sales of 1.8 million barrels of crude oil and petroleum  products
per day, and total revenues of $13.8 billion for the year. Caltex is involved in
all  aspects of the  downstream  business:  marketing,  refining,  distribution,
transportation,  storage, supply and trading operations; the corporation is also
active in the petrochemical business through its affiliate in Korea. At year-end
1999, Caltex had more than 7,200 employees.

      The majority of refining and certain  marketing  operations  are conducted
through joint ventures. Caltex has equity interests in 11 refineries with equity
refining capacity of approximately 850,000 barrels per day. Additionally, it has
interests in two  lubricant  refineries,  17 lubricant  blending  plants,  and a
network of ocean terminals and depots. Caltex also has an interest in a fleet of
vessels, and owns or has equity interests in numerous pipelines. Caltex conducts
international  crude oil and petroleum product logistics and trading  operations
from a subsidiary in Singapore.


P. T. Caltex Pacific Indonesia (CPI)
- -----------------------------------

      CPI holds a Production  Sharing  Contract (PSC) in Central Sumatra through
the year 2021.  CPI also acts as operator  in Sumatra for eight other  petroleum
contract areas, with 33 fields, which are jointly held by Chevron and Texaco. At
the end of 1999,  CPI had total assets of $2.4 billion,  which  generated  total
revenues  of $1.1  billion  for the year.  Exploration  is pursued  over an area
comprising 18.3 million acres with production established in the giant Minas and
Duri fields, along with smaller fields. Gross production from fields operated by
CPI for 1999 was over 746,000 barrels of crude oil per day. CPI entitlements are
sold to its  Stockholders,  who use them in their  systems or sell them to third
parties. At year-end 1999, CPI had approximately 5,900 employees, all located in
Indonesia.


American Overseas Petroleum Limited (AOPL)
- -----------------------------------------

      AOPL  and its  subsidiary  provide  services  for CPI and  manage  certain
exploration, production operations, and geothermal and power generation projects
in Indonesia in which  Chevron and Texaco have  interests,  but not  necessarily
jointly.  At year-end 1999, AOPL had  approximately  213 employees,  of which 8%
were located in the United States.





                                      C-3





                            CALTEX GROUP OF COMPANIES
                               GENERAL INFORMATION


Supplemental Market Risk Disclosures
- ------------------------------------

      The Group uses various  derivative  financial  instruments for hedging and
trading  purposes.  These instruments  principally  include interest rate and/or
currency swap  contracts,  forward and option  contracts to buy and sell foreign
currencies,   and  commodity  futures,   options,  swaps  and  other  derivative
instruments.  Hedged market risk exposures  include certain  portions of assets,
liabilities,  future commitments and anticipated  sales.  Positions are adjusted
for changes in the exposures being hedged. Since the Group hedges only a portion
of its market risk  exposures,  exposure  remains on the unhedged  portion.  The
Notes to the Combined  Financial  Statements provide additional data relating to
derivatives and applicable accounting policies.

Debt and debt-related derivatives

      The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on its short-term and long-term
debt with variable interest rates  (approximately $2.2 billion and $2.0 billion,
before the effects of related net  interest  rate swaps of $0.4 billion and $0.5
billion,  at  December  31,  1999 and 1998,  respectively).  The Group  seeks to
balance the benefit of lower cost variable rate debt, having inherent  increased
risk, with more expensive,  but lower risk fixed rate debt. This is accomplished
through adjusting the mix of fixed and variable rate debt, as well as the use of
derivative financial instruments, principally interest rate swaps.

      Based on the overall  interest  rate  exposure  on variable  rate debt and
interest rate swaps at December 31, 1999 and 1998, a hypothetical  change in the
interest  rates of 2% would change net income by  approximately  $25 million and
$21 million in 1999 and 1998, respectively.

Crude oil and petroleum product derivatives

      The  Group  uses  established  petroleum  futures  exchanges,  as  well as
"over-the-counter"  instruments,  including futures,  options,  swaps, and other
derivative  products to hedge a portion of the market risks  associated with its
crude oil and petroleum  product purchases and sales. The Group also enters into
derivative  contracts  as part of its crude oil and  petroleum  product  trading
activities.

      The  Group  had  net  open  petroleum   derivative   sales   contracts  of
approximately  $127  million  at  December  31,  1999,  and net  open  petroleum
derivative purchase contracts of approximately $68 million at December 31, 1998.
As a sensitivity for these contracts, a hypothetical 10% change in crude oil and
petroleum product prices would change net income by approximately $9 million and
$5 million in 1999 and 1998, respectively.

Currency-related derivatives

      The Group is exposed to foreign currency exchange risk in the countries in
which it operates. To hedge against adverse changes in foreign currency exchange
rates against the U.S. dollar,  the Group sometimes enters into forward exchange
and options contracts.  Depending on the exposure being hedged, the Group either
purchases  or sells  selected  foreign  currencies.  The Group  had net  foreign
currency  purchase  contracts of approximately  $279 million and $370 million at
December 31, 1999 and 1998 respectively,  to hedge certain specific transactions
or net exposures including foreign currency denominated debt. A hypothetical 10%
change in  exchange  rates  against  the U.S.  dollar  would not result in a net
material  change  in the  Group's  operating  results  or cash  flows  from  the
derivatives and their related underlying hedged positions in 1999 or 1998.




                                      C-4





                            CALTEX GROUP OF COMPANIES
                               GENERAL INFORMATION


New Accounting Standard

     Statement  of  Financial  Accounting  Standards  No.  133 (SFAS  No.  133),
"Accounting for Derivative  Instruments and Hedging  Activities",  was issued by
the  Financial   Accounting  Standards  Board  (FASB)  in  1998.  SFAS  No.  133
establishes  new  accounting  rules and disclosure  requirements  for derivative
instruments and hedge transactions.  In June 1999, the FASB issued SFAS No. 137,
which deferred the effective date of SFAS 133. The Group will adopt SFAS No. 133
effective January 1, 2001, and is currently assessing the effects of adoption on
its results of operations and financial position.

Year 2000 Compliance

      The  Group  and its  subsidiaries  and  affiliates  experienced  no  major
disruptions or other system or equipment  problems  resulting from the Year 2000
(Y2K)  issue.  During the year 1999 and the first few weeks of 2000,  the Group,
including  its share of  affiliates,  spent  approximately  $17  million  on Y2K
issues,  bringing the total spent since 1998 to approximately  $32 million.  The
Group does not  anticipate  spending  any  significant  additional  funds on Y2K
related activities.





                                      C-5

















                          Independent Auditors' Report
                          ----------------------------


To the Stockholders
The Caltex Group of Companies:

      We have audited the  accompanying  combined  balance  sheets of the Caltex
Group of Companies as of December  31, 1999 and 1998,  and the related  combined
statements of income, comprehensive income, stockholders' equity, and cash flows
for each of the years in the  three-year  period ended  December  31, 1999,  all
expressed  in  United  States  of  America  dollars.  These  combined  financial
statements are the responsibility of the Group's management.  Our responsibility
is to express an opinion on these  combined  financial  statements  based on our
audits.

      We conducted our audits in accordance  with auditing  standards  generally
accepted in the United States of America.  Those standards  require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a
test basis,  evidence  supporting  the amounts and  disclosures in the financial
statements.  An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant  estimates  made by  management,  as well as evaluating  the overall
financial  statement  presentation.   We  believe  that  our  audits  provide  a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

      In our  opinion,  the  combined  financial  statements  referred  to above
present fairly, in all material  respects,  the financial position of the Caltex
Group of  Companies  as of  December  31,  1999 and 1998 and the  results of its
operations  and its cash  flows for each of the years in the  three-year  period
ended  December 31, 1999, in conformity  with  accounting  principles  generally
accepted in the United States of America.

      As discussed in Note 12 to the combined  financial  statements,  the Group
changed its method of accounting  for start-up  costs in 1998 to comply with the
provisions  of the AICPA's  Statement of Position 98-5 - "Reporting on the Costs
of Start-up Activities".




                                  /s/ KPMG LLP
                                  ------------
                                  KPMG

Singapore
February 7, 2000





                                      C-6








                                      C-7










                                      C-8












                                      C-9









                                      C-10










                                      C-11





                            CALTEX GROUP OF COMPANIES
                     NOTES TO COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


Note 1  -  Summary of significant accounting policies

Principles of combination: The combined financial statements of the Caltex Group
of  Companies   (Group)   include  the  accounts  of  Caltex   Corporation   and
subsidiaries,  American  Overseas  Petroleum  Limited and  subsidiary,  and P.T.
Caltex  Pacific  Indonesia.  Intercompany  transactions  and balances  have been
eliminated.  Subsidiaries  include  companies  owned directly or indirectly more
than 50% except cases in which control does not rest with the Group. The Group's
accounting  policies are in accordance with U.S. generally  accepted  accounting
principles, and the Group's reporting currency is the U.S. dollar.

Translation of foreign  currencies:  The U.S. dollar is the functional  currency
for all principal subsidiary and affiliate operations. Prior to October 1, 1997,
the Group used the local currency as the functional  currency for its affiliates
in Korea and Japan due to the regulatory  environments in those  countries.  The
regulatory  environments in Korea and Japan changed in 1997. The Group concluded
that  deregulation  in Korea  and  Japan  represented  a  significant  change in
economic facts and  circumstances.  Accordingly,  effective October 1, 1997, the
Group changed the functional currency for its affiliates in Japan and Korea from
the local  currency to the U. S. dollar.  The change in functional  currency was
applied on a prospective basis.

Estimates:  The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted  accounting  principles  requires estimates and assumptions that affect
the reported  amounts of assets and  liabilities,  the  disclosure of contingent
assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported
amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results may
differ from those estimates.

Short-term  investments:   All  highly  liquid  investments  are  classified  as
available for sale. Those with a maturity of three months or less when purchased
are  considered  as "Cash  equivalents"  and those with  longer  maturities  are
classified as "Marketable securities".

Inventories:  Inventories  are  valued at the lower of cost or  current  market,
except as noted  below.  Crude oil and  petroleum  product  inventory  costs are
primarily  determined using the last-in,  first-out  (LIFO) method,  and include
applicable  acquisition and refining costs, duties,  import taxes, freight, etc.
Materials  and  supplies  are stated at average  cost.  Certain  trading-related
inventory, which is highly transitory in nature, is marked-to-market.

Investments  and advances:  Investments  in affiliates in which the Group has an
ownership  interest of 20% to 50% or  majority-owned  investments  where control
does not rest with the  Group,  are  accounted  for by the  equity  method.  The
Group's  share of earnings or losses of these  companies  is included in current
results,  and the recorded  investments  reflect the  underlying  equity in each
company.  Investments in other  affiliates are carried at cost and dividends are
reported as income.

Property,  plant  and  equipment:  Exploration  and  production  activities  are
accounted for under the successful efforts method.  Depreciation,  depletion and
amortization  expenses for capitalized  costs relating to producing  properties,
including    intangible    development   costs,   are   determined   using   the
unit-of-production  method.  All  other  assets  are  depreciated  by class on a
straight-line  basis using rates  based upon the  estimated  useful life of each
class.

      Maintenance  and repairs  necessary  to maintain  facilities  in operating
condition  are charged to income as incurred.  Additions and  improvements  that
materially  extend the life of assets are capitalized.  Upon disposal of assets,
any net gain or loss is included in income.

      Long-lived assets, including proved developed oil and gas properties,  are
assessed  for possible  impairment  by comparing  their  carrying  values to the
undiscounted-future-net-before-tax  cash flows. Impaired assets are written down
to their fair values,  and  impaired  assets held for sale are recorded at their
fair value less cost to sell.




                                      C-12





                            CALTEX GROUP OF COMPANIES
                     NOTES TO COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Note 1  -  Summary of significant accounting policies - continued

Deferred   credits:   Deferred  credits   primarily   represent  the  Indonesian
government's interest in specific property,  plant and equipment balances. Under
the Production  Sharing  Contract  (PSC),  the Indonesian  government  retains a
majority  equity share of current  production  profits.  Intangible  development
costs (IDC) are capitalized for U.S.  generally accepted  accounting  principles
under the successful  efforts method, but are treated as period expenses for PSC
reporting.  Other capitalized amounts are depreciated at an accelerated rate for
PSC reporting.  The deferred credit balances recognize the government's share of
IDC and  other  reported  capital  costs  that  over the life of the PSC will be
included  in income as  depreciation,  depletion  and  amortization  and will be
applied against future production related profits.

Derivative  financial  instruments and energy trading contracts:  The Group uses
various derivative financial instruments for hedging purposes. These instruments
include  interest  rate  and/or  currency  swap  contracts,  forward and options
contracts to buy and sell foreign  currencies,  and commodity futures,  options,
swaps and other  derivative  instruments.  Hedged market risk exposures  include
certain  portions of assets,  liabilities,  future  commitments  and anticipated
sales. Prior realized gains and losses on hedges of existing non-monetary assets
are included in the carrying value of those assets.  Gains and losses related to
qualifying  hedges of firm commitments or anticipated  transactions are deferred
and recognized in income when the underlying hedged transaction is recognized in
income. If the derivative instrument ceases to be a hedge, the related gains and
losses  are  recognized  currently  in income.  Gains and  losses on  derivative
instruments that do not qualify as hedges are recognized currently in income.

      The Group also enters into energy contracts as a part of its crude oil and
petroleum product trading  activities.  Trading contracts are recorded at market
value and related  gains and losses are recorded on a net basis in cost of sales
and  operating  expenses as the market values  change.  The net gains and losses
from trading  contracts  were not material to the Group's  results of operations
for 1999 and 1998.

Accounting  for  contingencies:  Certain  conditions  may  exist  as of the date
financial  statements  are issued  which may result in a loss to the Group,  but
which will only be  resolved  when one or more  future  events  occur or fail to
occur. Assessing contingencies  necessarily involves an exercise of judgment. In
assessing  loss  contingencies  related to legal  proceedings  that are  pending
against the Group or unasserted claims that may result in such proceedings,  the
Group  evaluates the  perceived  merits of any legal  proceedings  or unasserted
claims  as well as the  perceived  merits  of the  amount  of  relief  sought or
expected to be sought therein.

      If the  assessment of a contingency  indicates  that it is probable that a
material  liability  had  been  incurred  and  the  amount  of the  loss  can be
estimated,  then the  estimated  liability  is accrued in the Group's  financial
statements. If the assessment indicates that a potentially material liability is
not  probable,  but  is  reasonably  possible,  or is  probable  but  cannot  be
estimated,  then  the  nature  of the  contingent  liability,  together  with an
estimate of the range of possible loss, if determinable, is disclosed.

      Loss  contingencies  considered  remote are generally not disclosed unless
they involve  guarantees,  in which case the nature and amount of the  guarantee
would be  disclosed.  However,  in some  instances  in which  disclosure  is not
otherwise required,  the Group may disclose contingent liabilities of an unusual
nature which,  in the judgment of management  and its legal  counsel,  may be of
interest to Stockholders or others.

Environmental matters: The Group's environmental policies encompass the existing
laws in each country in which the Group  operates,  and the Group's own internal
standards.  Expenditures  that create  future  benefits or  contribute to future
revenue  generation are capitalized.  Future remediation costs are accrued based
on estimates of known  environmental  exposure even if uncertainties exist about
the  ultimate  cost of the  remediation.  Such  accruals  are  based on the best
available  undiscounted  estimates using data primarily developed by third party
experts.  Costs of  environmental  compliance  for past and ongoing  operations,
including maintenance and monitoring, are expensed as incurred.  Recoveries from
third parties are recorded as assets when realizable.

Revenue  recognition:  In general,  revenue is recognized for crude oil, natural
gas and  refined  product  sales when  title  passes as  specified  in the sales
contract.




                                      C-13





                            CALTEX GROUP OF COMPANIES
                     NOTES TO COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


Note 1  -  Summary of significant accounting policies - continued

Reclassifications:  Certain  reclassifications  have been made to the prior year
amounts  of sales  and cost of sales in the  combined  statement  of  income  to
conform  to the 1999  presentation  of  gains  and  losses  related  to  certain
commodity contracts.


Note 2  -  Asset Sale

      In 1997 Caltex  Trading and  Transport  Corporation,  a subsidiary  of the
Group, sold for cash its 40% interest in its Bahrain refining joint venture plus
related assets at net book value of approximately $140 million.


Note 3  -  Inventories

     The  reported  value of  inventory  at December 31 1999,  was less than its
current cost by approximately  $104 million.  The reported value of inventory at
December  31, 1998  approximated  its current  cost.  In 1998 and 1997,  certain
inventories  were  recorded  at market,  which was lower than the LIFO  carrying
value.  Adjustments  to market  reduced  net income $18  million in 1998 and $36
million in 1997. The market valuation  adjustment reserves  established in prior
years were  eliminated as market prices  improved in 1999 and the physical units
of inventory were sold.  Elimination  of these reserves  increased net income in
1999 by $71 million.  At December 31, 1999,  inventories  were  reported at LIFO
carrying cost.

      Inventory  quantities  valued on the LIFO  basis  were  reduced at certain
locations during the periods presented.  Such inventory reductions increased net
income in 1999 by $41  million,  and  decreased  net income by $4 million and $5
million  (net of related  market  valuation  adjustments  of $1 million  and $14
million) in 1998 and 1997, respectively.


Note 4  -  Equity in affiliates

      Investments in affiliates at equity include the following:


      The carrying  value of the Group's  investment in its affiliates in excess
of its  proportionate  share of  affiliate  net equity is being  amortized  over
approximately 20 years.

      In 1999,  Caltex  Corporation  sold its 50%  interest in Koa Oil  Company,
Limited (Koa) with a net book value of  approximately  $219  million,  to Nippon
Mitsubishi Oil Corp, for approximately  $237 million in cash. As a result of the
sale,  Caltex  incurred  additional U.S. tax  liabilities of  approximately  $81
million.






                                      C-14





                            CALTEX GROUP OF COMPANIES
                     NOTES TO COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


Note 4  -  Equity in affiliates - continued

      On December 31, 1997, Caltex Australia Limited (CAL), then a subsidiary of
the Group,  acquired the  remaining  50% of Australian  Petroleum  Pty.  Limited
(APPL) from a subsidiary of Pioneer  International  Limited,  for  approximately
$186 million in cash plus the issuance of an additional 90 million shares of CAL
stock. As a result of this transaction,  the Group's equity in CAL declined from
75% to 50% and its indirect  equity in APPL  increased  to 50% from 37.5%.  This
transaction  was recorded as a purchase.  CAL is now  classified as an affiliate
and the  individual  assets  and  liabilities  are  excluded  from  the  Group's
consolidated financial statements.

      The remaining  interest in Star Petroleum  Refining Company Ltd. (SPRC) is
owned by a  governmental  entity of the Kingdom of Thailand.  Provisions  in the
SPRC  shareholders  agreement  limit the Group's  control and provide for active
participation  of  the  minority   shareholder  in  routine  business  operating
decisions.  The  agreement  also  mandates  reduction  in Group  ownership  to a
minority  position  before  the year  2001;  however,  it is  likely  that  this
requirement will be delayed in view of the current economic  difficulties in the
region.

Shown below is  summarized  combined  financial  information  for  affiliates at
equity (in millions of U.S. dollars):






     Cash  dividends  received  from  these  affiliates  were $71  million,  $50
million, and $43 million in 1999, 1998, and 1997, respectively.

     The  summarized  combined  financial  information  shown above includes the
cumulative effect of the accounting change in 1998 as described in Note 12.

     Retained  earnings as of December 31, 1999 and 1998  includes  $1.4 billion
which  represents the Group's share of  undistributed  earnings of affiliates at
equity.


Note 5  -  Short-term debt

      Short-term debt  consists  primarily  of  demand  and  promissory  notes,
acceptance  credits,  overdrafts and the current  portion of long-term debt. The
weighted average interest rates on short-term  financing as of December 31, 1999
and 1998 were 6.5% and 7.3%, respectively.  Unutilized lines of credit available
for short-term financing totaled $0.8 billion as of December 31, 1999.



                                      C-15




                            CALTEX GROUP OF COMPANIES
                     NOTES TO COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


Note 6  -  Long-term debt

      Long-term debt,  with related  interest rates for 1999 and 1998 consist of
the following:



     Aggregate  maturities of long-term debt by year are as follows (in millions
of U.S. dollars): 2000 - $148 (included in short-term debt); 2001 - $508; 2002 -
$333; 2003 - $110; 2004 - $21; and thereafter - $82.


Note 7  -  Operating leases

     The Group has operating leases involving various marketing assets for which
net rental  expense was $112 million,  $103  million,  and $105 million in 1999,
1998, and 1997, respectively.

     Future  net  minimum  rental  commitments  under  operating  leases  having
non-cancelable  terms in excess of one year are as follows (in  millions of U.S.
dollars):  2000 - $66;  2001 - $42; 2002 - $30; 2003 - $13; 2004 - $10; and 2005
and thereafter - $37.




                                      C-16





                            CALTEX GROUP OF COMPANIES
                     NOTES TO COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


Note 8  -  Employee benefit plans

      The Group has various retirement plans,  including defined benefit pension
plans, covering substantially all of its employees.  The benefit levels, vesting
terms  and  funding  practices  vary  among  plans.  The  following  provides  a
reconciliation  of benefit  obligations,  plan assets,  and funded status of the
various plans, primarily foreign, and inclusive of affiliates at equity.




                                      C-17





                            CALTEX GROUP OF COMPANIES
                     NOTES TO COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


Note 8  -  Employee benefit plans - continued



The 1999 reduction is due to sale of investment in Koa (see Note 4)



      Other  post-retirement  benefits are comprised of contributory  healthcare
and life insurance  plans.  A one percentage  point change in the assumed health
care cost trend rate of 8.9% would change the post-retirement benefit obligation
by $8 million  and would not have a material  effect on  aggregate  service  and
interest components.


Note 9  -  Commitments and contingencies

     In 1997,  Caltex received a claim from the United States  Internal  Revenue
Service (IRS) for $292 million in excise tax, along with penalties and interest,
bringing the total to approximately  $2 billion.  Caltex was required to provide
the IRS with a standby  letter of credit  securing the  performance  of Caltex's
obligations  to the IRS if the  claim  was  upheld by the  courts.  Pursuant  to
Caltex's ongoing  discussions with the IRS and the Justice  Department,  Caltex'
offer  to  settle  the  claim  was  accepted  and the  remaining  amount  of the
assessment was conceded.  On December 22, 1999,  Caltex settled the claim in the
amount of tax of $9.1 million plus accrued  interest of $55.7  million due under
the terms of the  settlement.  Accordingly,  the letter of credit was terminated
and the parties  filed a  stipulation  with the United  States  Court of Federal
Claims to  dismiss  the case and the case was  dismissed.  The  majority  of the
settlement was applied against reserves  established prior to 1999 and there was
no significant impact on 1999 net income.

      Caltex also is involved in IRS tax audits for years 1987 to 1993. While no
claims by the IRS are outstanding for these years, in the opinion of management,
adequate  provision  has been made for income  taxes for all years  either under
examination or subject to future examination.




                                      C-18





                            CALTEX GROUP OF COMPANIES
                     NOTES TO COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


Note 9  -  Commitments and contingencies - continued

      Caltex and certain of its subsidiaries are named as defendants, along with
privately  held  Philippine  ferry  and  shipping  companies  and  the  shipping
company's insurer,  in various lawsuits filed in the U.S. and the Philippines on
behalf of at least 3,350 parties,  who were either survivors of, or relatives of
persons who allegedly  died in a collision in Philippine  waters on December 20,
1987.  One vessel  involved in the  collision  was carrying  products for Caltex
(Philippines)  Inc. (a subsidiary  of Caltex) in  connection  with a contract of
affreightment.  Although  Caltex  had no  direct  or  indirect  ownership  in or
operational responsibility for either vessel, various theories of liability have
been alleged against Caltex.  The major suit filed in the U.S.  (Louisiana State
Court) does not mention a specific  monetary  recovery  although  the  pleadings
contain a variety of demands for various  categories of  compensatory as well as
punitive damages.  Consequently,  no reasonable  estimate of damages involved or
being sought can be made at this time. Caltex is actively pursuing  dismissal of
all Philippine litigation on the strength of a Philippine Supreme Court decision
absolving it of any  responsibility  for the  collision.  Caltex is also seeking
dismissal  of  the  Louisiana  litigation  in  reliance  on  various  statutory,
procedural and substantive grounds.

      The Group may be subject to loss  contingencies  pursuant to environmental
laws and  regulations in each of the countries in which it operates that, in the
future, may require the Group to take action to correct or remediate the effects
on the  environment of prior disposal or release of petroleum  substances by the
Group. The amount of such future cost is  indeterminable  due to such factors as
the  nature  of the new  regulations,  the  unknown  magnitude  of any  possible
contamination,  the unknown timing and extent of the corrective actions that may
be  required,  and the  extent to which such  costs are  recoverable  from third
parties.

      In the Group's  opinion,  while it is impossible to ascertain the ultimate
legal and financial  liability,  if any, with respect to the above mentioned and
other  contingent  liabilities,  the  aggregate  amount that may arise from such
liabilities  is not  anticipated  to be  material  in  relation  to the  Group's
combined  financial  position  or  liquidity,  or results of  operations  over a
reasonable period of time.

      A Caltex  subsidiary has a contractual  commitment  until 2007 to purchase
petroleum  products in conjunction  with the financing of a refinery owned by an
affiliate.  Total future  estimated  commitments  under this contract,  based on
current pricing and projected growth rates, are  approximately  $700 million per
year.  Purchases  (in  billions of U.S.  dollars)  under this and other  similar
contracts were $0.7, $0.8 and $1.0 in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

      Caltex is contingently liable for sponsor support funding for a maximum of
$278 million in connection with an affiliate's project finance obligations.  The
project  has been  operational  since 1996 and has  successfully  completed  all
mechanical,  technical and reliability  tests associated with the plant physical
completion  covenant.  However,  the  affiliate  has been  unable  to  satisfy a
covenant  relating to a working capital  requirement.  As a result,  a technical
event of default  exists which has not been waived by the  lenders.  The lenders
have not enforced  their rights and remedies  under the finance  agreements  and
they have not indicated an intention to do so. The affiliate is current on these
financial  obligations  and  anticipates  resolving  the issue with its  secured
creditors during further restructuring discussions.  During 1999, Caltex and the
other sponsor  provided  temporary  short-term  extended trade credit related to
crude oil supply with an  outstanding  balance  owing to Caltex at December  31,
1999 of $149 million.






                                      C-19





                            CALTEX GROUP OF COMPANIES
                     NOTES TO COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


Note 10  -  Financial Instruments

      Certain  Group  companies  are  parties  to  financial   instruments  with
off-balance  sheet credit and market risk,  principally  interest rate risk. The
Group's  outstanding  commitments  for interest rate swaps and foreign  currency
contractual amounts are:



      The Group enters into interest  rate swaps in managing its interest  risk,
and their effects are  recognized in the statement of income at the same time as
the interest  expense on the debt to which they relate.  The swap contracts have
remaining  maturities of up to ten years.  Net unrealized  gains and (losses) on
contracts  outstanding  at  December  31,  1999 and 1998 were $4 million and ($7
million), respectively.

      The Group enters into forward exchange  contracts to hedge against some of
its foreign  currency  exposure  stemming  from  existing  liabilities  and firm
commitments.  Contracts to purchase foreign currencies  (principally  Australian
and Singapore dollars) hedging existing liabilities have maturities of up to two
years.  Net  unrealized  losses  applicable  to  outstanding   forward  exchange
contracts  at  December  31,  1999 and 1998  were $5  million  and $23  million,
respectively.

      The Group hedges a portion of the market risks  associated  with its crude
oil and petroleum  product  purchases and sales.  Established  petroleum futures
exchanges are used, as well as "over-the-counter"  hedge instruments,  including
futures,  options,  swaps,  and other derivative  products.  Gains and losses on
hedges are deferred and recognized  concurrently  with the underlying  commodity
transactions.  Deferred gains on hedging contracts  outstanding at year-end were
$4 million in 1999 and $8 million in 1998.

      The Group's  recorded  value of long-term  debt exceeded the fair value by
$22 million and $34 million as of December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively.  The
fair value  estimates  were based on the present  value of  expected  cash flows
discounted at current market rates for similar obligations. The reported amounts
of  financial  instruments  such  as  cash  and  cash  equivalents,   marketable
securities,   notes  and  accounts  receivable,   and  all  current  liabilities
approximate fair value because of their short maturities.

      The  Group  had  investments  in  debt  securities  available-for-sale  at
amortized  costs of $120 million and $105 million at December 31, 1999 and 1998,
respectively.  The fair value of these  securities at December 31, 1999 and 1998
approximated  amortized costs. As of December 31, 1999 and 1998,  investments in
debt  securities  available-for-sale  had  maturities  less than ten years.  The
Group's  carrying amount for  investments in affiliates  accounted for at equity
included  $2  million  and $19  million,  as of  December  31,  1999  and  1998,
respectively,  for after tax unrealized  net gains on investments  held by these
companies.

      The Group is exposed to credit  risks in the event of  non-performance  by
counter-parties  to  financial  instruments.   For  financial  instruments  with
institutions,  the Group does not expect any  counter-party  to fail to meet its
obligations given their high credit ratings. Other financial instruments exposed
to credit risk consist  primarily of trade  receivables.  These  receivables are
dispersed  among  the  countries  in which  the Group  operates,  thus  limiting
concentration of such risk. The Group performs ongoing credit evaluations of its
customers and generally does not require  collateral.  Letters of credit are the
principal  security  obtained  to  support  lines of credit  when the  financial
strength  of a  customer  is  not  considered  sufficient.  Credit  losses  have
historically been within management's expectations.




                                      C-20





                            CALTEX GROUP OF COMPANIES
                     NOTES TO COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


Note 11 - Taxes

 Taxes charged to income consist of the following:




      Income taxes have been computed on an individual company basis at rates in
effect in the various  countries of  operation.  The  effective tax rate differs
from the "expected" tax rate (U.S. Federal corporate tax rate) as follows:



      For 1999,  the increase in effective tax rate  resulting  from the sale of
investment in an affiliate is net of the effect of previously unrecorded foreign
tax credit  carry-forwards  of $29 million.  The 1998  increase in effective tax
rate is



                                      C-21




primarily due to the larger  proportion of earnings from higher tax rate
foreign jurisdictions, and the effect of foreign currency translation on pre-tax
income.

      Deferred income taxes are provided in each tax  jurisdiction for temporary
differences  between  the  financial  reporting  and the tax basis of assets and
liabilities.  Temporary  differences and tax loss carry-forwards which give rise
to deferred tax liabilities (assets) are as follows:



      A valuation  allowance has been  established to reduce deferred income tax
assets to amounts which, in the Group's judgement are more likely than not (more
than 50%) to be utilized  against  current and future  taxable income when those
temporary differences become deductible.

      Undistributed  earnings of subsidiaries and affiliates,  for which no U.S.
deferred  income tax  provision has been made,  approximated  $3.4 billion as of
December 31, 1999 and December 31, 1998,  respectively.  Such earnings have been
or are intended to be  indefinitely  reinvested,  and become taxable in the U.S.
only upon remittance as dividends. It is not practical to estimate the amount of
tax that may be  payable  on the  eventual  remittance  of such  earnings.  Upon
remittance, certain foreign countries impose withholding taxes which, subject to
certain  limitations,  are available for use as tax credits against the U.S. tax
liability.  Excess  U.S.  foreign  income tax  credits  are not  recorded  until
realized.


Note 12  -  Accounting change

      An affiliate of the Group  capitalized  certain start-up costs,  primarily
organizational  and training,  over the period 1992-1996 related to a grassroots
refinery  construction project in Thailand.  These costs were considered part of
the effort required to prepare the refinery for operations. With the issuance of
the AICPA's  Statement  of Position  98-5,  "Reporting  on the Costs of Start-up
Activities",  these costs would be accounted for as period  expenses.  The Group
elected  early  adoption  of this  pronouncement  effective  January 1, 1998 and
accordingly, recorded a cumulative effect charge to income as of January 1, 1998
of $50 million  representing the Group's share of the applicable start-up costs.
Excluding the cumulative effect, the change in accounting for start-up costs did
not materially affect net income for 1998.




                                      C-22





                            CALTEX GROUP OF COMPANIES
                     NOTES TO COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


Note 13  -  Restructuring/Reorganization

      Caltex recorded a charge to selling,  general and administrative  expenses
of $37  million  and $86  million in 1999 and 1998,  respectively,  for  various
restructuring and reorganization activities undertaken to realign its downstream
operations along functional lines and reduce redundant operating activities. The
charges included severance and other termination benefits of $23 million and $60
million for  approximately  200  employees  and 500  employees in 1999 and 1998,
respectively.  Less than 100 of the affected employees remained as of the end of
1999 and almost all of these are  scheduled to leave by the end of March,  2000.
The  charges  also  included  $12  million  and $10  million for asset and lease
commitment  write-offs,  and other  reorganization  costs of $2 million  and $16
million, in 1999 and 1998, respectively. In addition, 1999 net income includes a
$27 million after tax charge for restructuring activities of affiliates.

      Approximately $22 million of the total  restructuring  and  reorganization
charges  remained  as  recorded  liabilities  as of  December  31,  1999,  which
primarily  relates to future lease  commitments on vacated office space over the
remaining  lease  term  ending in 2002,  and  severance  payments  to be paid to
affected employees during the first quarter of 2000. Adjustments made in 1999 to
the liability recorded at December 31, 1998 were insignificant.


      The following  table  summarizes  the  restructuring/reorganization  costs
related to severance and other termination  benefits for 1999 and 1998 (millions
of U.S. dollars):




Note 14  -  Assets Held for Disposal

      The Group continually  reviews its asset portfolio and periodically  sells
or  otherwise  disposes  of various  assets  that no longer fit into the Group's
strategic  direction.  The Group recorded a charge to earnings of  approximately
$30 million in both 1999 and 1998,  and $12  million in 1997  related to various
marketing assets (primarily  service station land and buildings) which have been
removed from operation and are awaiting  disposal or sale as buyers are located.
Carrying  value of these  assets,  which is  based on  appraisals  or  estimated
selling prices, as of December 31, 1999 is approximately $25 million. The effect
of suspending  depreciation  on assets held for sale in 1999,  1998 and 1997 was
not material.





                                      C-23





                            CALTEX GROUP OF COMPANIES
                     NOTES TO COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


Note 15  -  Combined statement of cash flows

      Changes in operating working capital consist of the following:



      Net cash  provided by operating  activities  includes the  following  cash
payments for interest and income taxes:



      The  deconsolidation  of Caltex Australia Limited as of December 31, 1997,
as  described  in Note 4,  resulted  in a non-cash  reduction  in the  following
combined  balance sheet  captions for 1997,  which have not been included in the
combined statement of cash flows (millions of U.S. dollars):

      Net working capital                                               $   60
      Equity in affiliates                                                  94
      Long-term debt                                                        45
      Minority interest                                                    109

      No significant  non-cash investing or financing  transactions  occurred in
1999 and 1998.


Note 16  -  Oil and gas exploration, development and producing activities

     The financial  statements of Chevron  Corporation  and Texaco Inc.  contain
required  supplementary   information  on  oil  and  gas  producing  activities,
including disclosures on affiliates at equity. Accordingly, such disclosures are
not presented herein.

                                      C-24

