Item 1. Business



OVERVIEW



Essex Property Trust, Inc. (“Essex” or the “Company”) is a Maryland corporation that operates as a self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust (“REIT”).  The Company owns all of its interest in its real estate investments directly or indirectly through Essex Portfolio, L.P. (the “Operating Partnership” or “EPLP”).  The Company is the sole general partner of the Operating Partnership and as of December 31, 2013 owns a 94.6% general partnership interest.   In this report, the terms “Essex” or the “Company” also refer to Essex Property Trust, Inc., its Operating Partnership and those entities owned or controlled by the Operating Partnership.



The Company has elected to be treated as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, commencing with the year ended December 31, 1994 as the Company completed an initial public offering on June 13, 1994.  In order to maintain compliance with REIT tax rules, the Company utilizes taxable REIT subsidiaries for various revenue generating or investment activities. All taxable REIT subsidiaries are consolidated by the Company.



The Company is engaged primarily in the ownership, operation, management, acquisition, development and redevelopment of predominantly apartment communities.  As of December 31, 2013, the Company owned or held an interest in 164 communities, aggregating 34,079 units, located along the West Coast, as well as four commercial buildings (totaling approximately 315,900 square feet), and eleven active development projects with 2,501 units in various stages of development (collectively, the “Portfolio”).



The Company’s website address is http://www.essexpropertytrust.com.  The Company’s annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports, and the Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting of Stockholders are available, free of charge, on its website as soon as practicable after the Company files the reports with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).



BUSINESS STRATEGIES



The following is a discussion of the Company’s business strategies in regards to real estate investment and management.



Business Strategies



Research Driven Approach to Investments–The Company believes that successful real estate investment decisions and portfolio growth begin with extensive regional economic research and local market knowledge.  The Company continually assesses markets where the Company operates, as well as markets where the Company considers future investment opportunities by evaluating the following:



·Focus on markets in major metropolitan areas that have regional population in excess of one million;

·Constraints on new supply driven by: (i) low availability of developable land sites where competing housing could be economically built; (ii) political growth barriers, such as protected land, urban growth boundaries, and potential lengthy and expensive development permit processes; and (iii) natural limitations to development, such as mountains or waterways;

·Rental demand is enhanced by affordability of rents relative to costs of for-sale housing; and

·Housing demand that is based on job growth, proximity to jobs, high median incomes and the quality of life including related commuting factors.

Recognizing that all real estate markets are cyclical, the Company regularly evaluates the results of its regional economic, and local market research, and adjusts the geographic focus of its portfolio accordingly.  The Company seeks to increase its Portfolio allocation in markets projected to have the strongest local economies and to decrease such allocations in markets projected to have declining economic conditions.  Likewise, the Company also seeks to increase its Portfolio allocation in markets that have attractive property valuations and to decrease such allocations in markets that have inflated valuations and low relative yields.



Property Operations– The Company manages its communities by focusing on activities that may generate above-average rental growth, tenant retention/satisfaction and long-term asset appreciation.  The Company intends to achieve this by utilizing the strategies set forth below:



·Property Management–Oversee delivery of and quality of the housing provided to our residents and manage the properties financial performance.

·Capital Preservation –Asset Management is responsible for the planning, budgeting and completion of major capital improvement projects at the Company’s communities.

·Business Planning and Control –Comprehensive business plans are implemented in conjunction with every investment decision.  These plans include benchmarks for future financial performance, based on collaborative discussions between on-site managers and senior management.

·Development and Redevelopment –The Company focuses on acquiring and developing apartment communities in supply constrained markets, and redeveloping its existing communities to improve the financial and physical aspects of the Company’s communities.



CURRENT BUSINESS ACTIVITIES



Summary of Proposed Merger with BRE Properties, Inc.



The board of directors of Essex Property Trust, Inc. and the board of directors of BRE Properties, Inc. have each unanimously approved an Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of December 19, 2013, as it may be amended from time to time, which we refer to as the merger agreement, by and among Essex, Bronco Acquisition Sub, Inc., a direct wholly owned subsidiary of Essex, which we refer to as Merger Sub, and BRE.  On February 5, 2014, Bronco Acquisition Sub, Inc. changed its name to BEX Portfolio, Inc.  Pursuant to the merger agreement, Essex and BRE will combine through a merger of BRE with and into Merger Sub, with Merger Sub surviving the merger.  The combined company, which we refer to as the Combined Company, will retain the name “Essex Property Trust, Inc.” and will continue to trade on the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, under the symbol “ESS.” The executive officers of Essex immediately prior to the effective time of the merger will continue to serve as the executive officers of the Combined Company, with Michael J. Schall continuing to serve as the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Combined Company. The obligations of Essex and BRE to effect the merger are subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain customary conditions set forth in the merger agreement (including the applicable approvals of each company’s stockholders).



Upon completion of the merger, we estimate that continuing Essex stockholders will own approximately 62% of the issued and outstanding common stock of the Combined Company, and former BRE stockholders will own approximately 38% of the issued and outstanding common stock of the Combined Company.



In connection with the proposed merger, Essex and BRE will each hold a special meeting of their respective stockholders.  At the Essex special meeting, Essex stockholders will be asked to vote on (i) a proposal to approve the issuance of Essex common stock to BRE stockholders in the merger and (ii) a proposal to approve one or more adjournments of the meeting to another date, time or place, if necessary or appropriate, to solicit additional proxies in favor of the proposal to approve the issuance of shares of Essex common stock to BRE stockholders in the merger.  At the BRE special meeting, BRE stockholders will be asked to vote on (i) a proposal to approve the merger and the other transactions contemplated by the merger agreement, (ii) an advisory (non-binding) proposal to approve certain compensation that may be paid or become payable to the named executive officers of BRE in connection with the merger, and (iii) a proposal to approve one or more adjournments of the meeting to another date, time or place, if necessary or appropriate, to solicit additional proxies in favor of the proposal to approve the merger and the other transactions contemplated by the merger agreement.



The merger agreement may also be terminated prior to the effective time of the merger by either BRE or Essex under certain conditions, including if the merger has not been consummated on or before June 17, 2014.



Acquisitions of Real Estate



Acquisitions are an important component of the Company’s business plan, and during 2013, the Company and its co-investments acquired ownership interests in eight communities comprising of 1,472 units for $462.5 million.  The following is a summary of 2013 acquisitions ($ in millions):



Essex OwnershipPurchaseProperty NameLocationUnitsPercentageOwnershipDatePriceFox Plaza ApartmentsSan Francisco, CA444100%EPLPQ1 2013$135.0Bennett Lofts (formerly Q Lofts)(1)San Francisco, CA34100%EPLPQ1 201322.2AnnalieseSeattle, WA56100%EPLPQ1 201319.0Gas Company LoftsLos Angeles, CA25150%Wesco IIIQ2 201371.0Regency at Mountain ViewMountain View, CA14250%Wesco IIIQ2 201342.5Slater 116Kirkland, WA108100%EPLPQ3 201329.6DomainSan Diego, CA379100%EPLPQ4 2013121.0VoxSeattle, WA58100%EPLPQ4 201322.2Total 20131,472$462.5



(1)The 147 unit apartment community was acquired in two phases for $96.0 million.  Approximately 75% was acquired in December 2012 with the remainder in January 2013.



Dispositions of Real Estate



As part of its strategic plan to own quality real estate in supply-constrained markets, the Company continually evaluates all the communities and sells those which no longer meet its strategic criteria.  The Company may use the capital generated from the dispositions to invest in higher-return communities or other real estate investments, or repay debts.  The Company believes that the sale of these communities will not have a material impact on its future results of operations or cash flows nor will their sale materially affect its ongoing operations.  Generally, the Company seeks to have any impact of earnings dilution resulting from these dispositions offset by the positive impact of its acquisitions, development and redevelopment activities.



During 2013, the Company sold three apartment communities, Linden Square, Cambridge,and Brentwood for a total of $57.5 million, resulting in total gains on the transactions of $29.2 million.



During the second quarter 2013, Essex Apartment Value Fund II, L.P. (“Fund II”) sold Morning Run for a total of $26.4 million. In connection with the sale, Fund II incurred a prepayment penalty on debt of which the Company’s pro rata share was $0.2 million. In the third quarter 2013, Fund II sold four properties for gross proceeds of $294.0 million. In connection with the sales in the third quarter, Fund II incurred prepayment penalties on debt of which the Company’s pro rata share was $0.2 million. The total gains on the transactions in 2013 were $146.8 million, of which the Company’s pro-rata share was $38.8 million net of internal disposition costs. The two remaining properties in the Fund II portfolio are expected to be sold in 2014.

Also in 2013, the Company sold a land parcel held for future development located in Palo Alto, California for $9.1 million, resulting in a gain of $1.5 million.



Development Pipeline



The Company defines development projects as new communities that are in various stages of active development, or are in the process of leasing activities prior to stabilization.  As of December 31, 2013, the Company had two consolidated development projects and nine joint venture development projects comprised of 2,501 units for an estimated cost of $1.1 billion, of which $407.0 million remains to be expended.



The Company defines the predevelopment projects as proposed communities in negotiation or in the entitlement process with an expected high likelihood of becoming entitled development projects.  As of December 31, 2013, the Company had one consolidated predevelopment project comprised of 200 units.  The Company may also acquire land for future development purposes or sale.



The following table sets forth information regarding the Company’s development pipeline:



EssexAs of 12/31/13 ($ in millions)OwnershipIncurredEstimatedDevelopment PipelineLocation%UnitsProject CostProject Cost(1)Development Projects - ConsolidatedThe Emme (formerly 64th & Christie)Emeryville, CA100%190$34.1$61.6The Avery(2)Los Angeles, CA100%1212.537.6Total - Consolidated Development Projects31136.699.2Development Projects - Joint VentureEpic - Phase IISan Jose, CA55%28987.197.3Epic - Phase IIISan Jose, CA55%20028.096.3Connolly StationDublin, CA55%30988.694.5The HuxleyWest Hollywood, CA50%18771.875.0The DylanWest Hollywood, CA50%18464.675.4Mosso I and Mosso IISan Francisco, CA55%463191.2250.0Park 20 (formerly Elkhorn)San Mateo, CA55%19747.876.1One South MarketSan Jose, CA55%31230.9145.1The VillageWalnut Creek, CA50%4936.381.0Total - Joint Venture Development Projects2,190646.3990.7Predevelopment Projects - ConsolidatedCity CentreMoorpark, CA100%20011.611.6Other Projectsvarious100%-2.22.2Total - Predevelopment Projects20013.813.8Grand Total - Development and Predevelopment Pipeline2,701$696.7$1,103.7



(1)Includes incurred costs and estimated costs to complete these development projects.

(2)The Company invested $1.0 million and has incurred $1.5 million of additional internal costs as part of an agreement to purchase the property upon receipt of certificate of occupancy for total estimated cost of $37.6 million, which is expected in the first quarter of 2014.



In April 2013, the Company stabilized Expo, a 275 unit community in Seattle, Washington with total costs of approximately $66.9 million.  The Company has a 50% interest in this joint venture.



Redevelopment Pipeline



The Company defines redevelopment pipeline as existing properties owned or recently acquired, which have been targeted for additional investment by the Company with the expectation of increased financial returns through property improvement.  During redevelopment, apartment units may not be available for rent and, as a result, may have less than stabilized operations.  As of December 31, 2013, the Company had ownership interests in five redevelopment communities aggregating 1,312 apartment units with estimated redevelopment costs of $124.7 million, of which approximately $86.1 million remains to be expended.

Long Term Debt



During 2013, the Company repaid $103.7 million in secured debt including secured mortgage debt totaling $84.3 million at an average interest rate of 5.4% and $19.4 million of tax-exempt bonds.  In addition, the Company repaid $14.2 million of Mello Roos bonds related to one property.  The Company replaced the construction loan on Expo with a seven year, $45.0 million term loan. The loan has a variable interest rate of LIBOR plus 1.50% and in connection with the loan the Company entered into a $45.0 million interest rate swap to fix the rate to 3.7% for the entire seven year period.



In April 2013, the Company issued $300.0 million of senior unsecured notes due on May 1, 2023 with a coupon rate of 3.25% per annum and is payable on May 1stand November 1stof each year, beginning November 1, 2013 (the 2023 Notes).  The 2023 Notes were offered to investors at a price of 99.152% of par value.  The 2023 Notes are general unsecured senior obligations of the Operating Partnership, rank equally in right of payment with all other senior unsecured indebtedness of the Operating Partnership and are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Essex Property Trust, Inc. The carrying value of the 2023 Notes, net of discount was $297.7 million as of December 31, 2013.



Bank Debt



As of December 31, 2013, Fitch Ratings ("Fitch"), Moody’s Investor Service, and Standard and Poor's (“S&P”) credit agencies rated Essex Property Trust, Inc. and Essex Portfolio, L.P. BBB+/Stable, Baa2/Stable, and BBB/Stable, respectively.



In December 2013, in connection with the BRE merger, the Company obtained committed financing up to $1.0 billion (the “bridge loan”) which is available if needed to fund the cash portion of the purchase price.   The bridge loan facility is structured as a 364-day unsecured loan facility available in a single draw on the closing date of the merger. The company is exploring several alternatives to fund the cash needs of the transaction including asset sales, joint ventures or new financing.



In January 2014, the Company increased the capacity of the unsecured line of credit facility from $600.0 million to $1.0 billion and included an accordion feature pursuant to which the Company could expand to $1.5 billion. This facility matures in December 2017 with one 18-month extension option. The new facility carries an interest rate based on its current credit ratings of LIBOR plus 0.95%.



In January 2014, the Company extended the $25.0 million working capital unsecured line of credit for two additional years and reduced the pricing which carries an interest rate based on a tiered rate structure tied to Fitch and S&P ratings on the credit facility of LIBOR plus 0.95%.



In January 2014, the Company reduced the pricing on its $350.0 million unsecured term loan by 15 basis points to LIBOR plus 1.05%.



Equity Transactions



During 2013, ESS issued 913,344 shares of common stock at an average share price of $152.92 for proceeds of $138.4 million, net of fees and commissions.During the first quarter of 2014 through February 24, 2014, ESS has issued 462,555 shares of common stock at an average price of $162.97 for proceeds of $74.9 million, net of fees and commissions.ESS contributed the net proceeds to the Operating Partnership and used the proceeds to pay down debt, fund redevelopment and development pipelines, fund acquisitions, and for general corporate purposes.



WESCO



In 2011, the Company entered into a 50/50 programmatic joint venture, Wesco I LLC (“Wesco I”), with an institutional partner for a total equity commitment of $300.0 million.  Each partner’s equity commitment was $150.0 million, and Wesco I will utilize debt targeted at approximately 50% of the cost to acquire and improve real estate.  The Company has contributed $150.0 million to Wesco I, and as of December 31, 2013, Wesco I owned nine apartment communities with 2,713 units with an aggregate carrying value of approximately $670 million.  Investments must meet certain criteria to qualify for inclusion in the joint venture and both partners must approve any new acquisitions and material dispositions. The Company records revenue for its asset management, property management, development, and redevelopment services when earned, and promote income when realized, if Wesco I exceeds certain financial return benchmarks.

During 2012, the Company entered into a 50/50 programmatic joint venture, Wesco III LLC (“Wesco III”), with an institutional partner for a total equity commitment from the parties of $120.0 million.  Each partner’s equity commitment is $60.0 million, and Wesco III will utilize debt targeted at approximately 50% of the cost to acquire and improve real estate.  The Company has contributed $39.7 million to Wesco III and, as of December 31, 2013, Wesco III owned three apartment communities with 657 units for an aggregate carrying value of approximately $164 million. Both partners must approve all major decisions including dispositions. The joint venture has an investment period of up to two years.  The Company records revenue for its asset management, property management, development, and redevelopment services when earned, and promote income when realized, if Wesco III exceeds certain financial return benchmarks.



OFFICES AND EMPLOYEES



The Company is headquartered in Palo Alto, California, and has regional offices in Woodland Hills, California; Irvine, California; San Diego, California and Bellevue, Washington.  As of December 31, 2013, the Company had 1,173 employees.



INSURANCE



The Company carries comprehensive liability, fire, extended coverage and rental loss insurance for each of the communities.  There are, however, certain types of extraordinary losses, such as, for example, losses from terrorism or earthquakes, for which the Company does not have insurance coverage.  Substantially all of the communities are located in areas that are subject to earthquake activity.  The Company has established a wholly owned insurance subsidiary, Pacific Western Insurance LLC (“PWI”).  Through PWI, the Company is self-insured as it relates to earthquake related losses.  Additionally, since January 2008, PWI has provided property and casualty insurance coverage for the first $5.0 million of the Company’s property level insurance claims per incident.  As of December 31, 2013, PWI has cash and marketable securities of approximately $40 million.  These assets are consolidated in the Company’s financial statements.  Beginning in 2013, the Company has obtained limited third party seismic insurance on selected assets in which it holds an ownership interest in.



The Company believes it has a proactive approach to its potential earthquake losses.  The Company utilizes third-party seismic consultants for its acquisitions and may perform seismic upgrades to those acquisitions that are determined to have a higher level of potential loss from an earthquake.  The Company utilizes third-party loss models to help to determine its exposure.  The majority of the communities are lower density garden-style apartments which may be less susceptible to material earthquake damage.  The Company will continue to monitor third-party earthquake insurance pricing and conditions and may consider obtaining third-party coverage if it deems it cost effective.



Although the Company may carry insurance for potential losses associated with its communities, employees, residents, and compliance with applicable laws, it may still incur losses due to uninsured risks, deductibles, co-payments or losses in excess of applicable insurance coverage and those losses may be material.



COMPETITION



There are numerous housing alternatives that compete with the Company’s communities in attracting residents.  These include other apartment communities, condominiums and single-family homes.  If the demand for the Company’s communities is reduced or if competitors develop and/or acquire competing housing, rental rates and occupancy may drop which may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.



The Company faces competition from other real estate investment trusts, businesses and other entities in the acquisition, development and operation of apartment communities.  Some competitors are larger and have greater financial resources than the Company.  This competition may result in increased costs of apartment communities the Company acquires and or develops.

WORKING CAPITAL



The Company believes that cash flows generated by its operations, existing cash and marketable securities balances, availability under existing lines of credit, access to capital markets and the ability to generate cash from the disposition of real estate are sufficient to meet all of its reasonably anticipated cash needs during 2014.  As noted above, in connection with the BRE merger, the Company obtained committed financing up to $1.0 billion which is available if needed to fund the cash portion of the purchase price.  The company is exploring several alternatives to fund the cash needs of the transaction including asset sales, joint ventures or new financing.



The timing, source and amounts of cash flows provided by financing activities and used in investing activities are sensitive to changes in interest rates and other fluctuations in the capital markets environment, which can affect the Company’s plans for acquisitions, dispositions, development and redevelopment activities.



ENVIRONMENTAL CONSIDERATIONS



See the discussion under the caption, “The Company’s Portfolio may have environmental liabilities” in Item 1A, Risk Factors, for information concerning the potential effect of environmental regulations on its operations, which discussion under the caption “The Company’s Portfolio may have environmental liabilities” is incorporated by reference into this Item 1.



OTHER MATTERS



Certain Policies of the Company



The Company intends to continue to operate in a manner that will not subject it to regulation under the Investment Company Act of 1940. The Company has in the past five years and may in the future (i) issue securities senior to its common stock, (ii) fund acquisition activities with borrowings under its line of credit and (iii) offer shares of common stock and/or units of limited partnership interest in the Operating Partnership or affiliated partnerships as partial consideration for property acquisitions. The Company from time to time acquires partnership interests in partnerships and joint ventures, either directly or indirectly through subsidiaries of the Company, when such entities’ underlying assets are real estate.



The Company invests primarily in apartment communities that are located in predominantly coastal markets within Southern California, the San Francisco Bay Area, and the Seattle metropolitan area. The Company currently intends to continue to invest in apartment communities in such regions.  However, these practices may be reviewed and modified periodically by management.



