Item 1. Business



OVERVIEW



Essex Property Trust, Inc. (“Essex”, "ESS", or the “Company”) a Maryland corporation, is an S&P 500 company that operates as a self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust (“REIT”). The Company owns all of its interest in its real estate and other investments directly or indirectly through Essex Portfolio, L.P. (the “Operating Partnership” or “EPLP”). The Company is the sole general partner of the Operating Partnership and as ofDecember 31, 2015owns a96.7%general partnership interest. In this report, the terms “Essex” or the “Company” also refer to Essex Property Trust, Inc., its Operating Partnership and those entities owned or controlled by the Operating Partnership.



The Company has elected to be treated as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, commencing with the year ended December 31, 1994 as the Company completed an initial public offering on June 13, 1994. In order to maintain compliance with REIT tax rules, the Company utilizes taxable REIT subsidiaries for various revenue generating or investment activities. All taxable REIT subsidiaries are consolidated by the Company.



The Company is engaged primarily in the ownership, operation, management, acquisition, development and redevelopment of predominantly apartment communities. As ofDecember 31, 2015, the Company owned or held an interest in246communities, aggregating59,160apartment homes, located along the West Coast, as well asfourcommercial buildings (totaling approximately319,079square feet), andeightactive development projects with2,447apartment homes in various stages of development (collectively, the “Portfolio”).



The Company’s website address is http://www.essex.com. The Company’s annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports, and the Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting of Stockholders are available, free of charge, on its website as soon as practicable after the Company files the reports with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).



BUSINESS STRATEGIES



The following is a discussion of the Company’s business strategies in regards to real estate investment and management.



Business Strategies



Research Driven Approach to Investments–The Company believes that successful real estate investment decisions and portfolio growth begin with extensive regional economic research and local market knowledge.  The Company continually assesses markets where the Company operates, as well as markets where the Company considers future investment opportunities by evaluating the following:



•Focus on markets in major metropolitan areas that have regional population in excess of one million;

•Constraints on new supply driven by: (i) low availability of developable land sites where competing housing could be economically built; (ii) political growth barriers, such as protected land, urban growth boundaries, and potential lengthy and expensive development permit processes; and (iii) natural limitations to development, such as mountains or waterways;

•Rental demand is enhanced by affordability of rents relative to costs of for-sale housing; and

•Housing demand that is based on job growth, proximity to jobs, high median incomes and the quality of life including related commuting factors.



Recognizing that all real estate markets are cyclical, the Company regularly evaluates the results of its regional economic, and local market research, and adjusts the geographic focus of its portfolio accordingly.  The Company seeks to increase its portfolio allocation in markets projected to have the strongest local economies and to decrease such allocations in markets









projected to have declining economic conditions.  Likewise, the Company also seeks to increase its portfolio allocation in markets that have attractive property valuations and to decrease such allocations in markets that have inflated valuations and low relative yields.



Property Operations– The Company manages its communities by focusing on activities that may generate above-average rental growth, tenant retention/satisfaction and long-term asset appreciation.  The Company intends to achieve this by utilizing the strategies set forth below:



•Property Management–Oversee delivery of and quality of the housing provided to our residents and manage the properties financial performance.

•Capital Preservation –Asset Management is responsible for the planning, budgeting and completion of major capital improvement projects at the Company’s communities.

•Business Planning and Control –Comprehensive business plans are implemented in conjunction with significant investment decisions.  These plans include benchmarks for future financial performance, based on collaborative discussions between on-site managers and senior management.

•Development and Redevelopment –The Company focuses on acquiring and developing apartment communities in supply constrained markets, and redeveloping its existing communities to improve the financial and physical aspects of the Company’s communities.



CURRENT BUSINESS ACTIVITIES



Merger with BRE Properties, Inc. in 2014



On April 1, 2014, Essex completed the merger with BRE Properties, Inc. (“BRE”). In connection with the closing of the merger, (1) BRE merged into a wholly owned subsidiary of Essex, and (2) each outstanding share of BRE common stock was converted into (i) 0.2971 shares (the “Stock Consideration”) of Essex common stock, and (ii) $7.18 in cash, (the “Cash Consideration”), plus cash in lieu of fractional shares for total consideration of approximately $4.3 billion. The Cash Consideration was adjusted as a result of the authorization and declaration of a special distribution to the stockholders of BRE of $5.15 per share of BRE common stock payable to BRE stockholders of record as of the close of business on March 31, 2014 (the “Special Dividend”). The Special Dividend was payable as a result of the closing of the sale of certain interests in assets of BRE to certain parties, which closed on March 31, 2014. Pursuant to the terms of the merger agreement, the amounts payable as a Special Dividend reduced the Cash Consideration of $12.33 payable by Essex in the merger to $7.18 per share of BRE common stock.

Essex issued approximately 23.1 million shares of Essex common stock as Stock Consideration in the merger. For purchase accounting, the value of the common stock issued by Essex upon the consummation of the merger was determined based on the closing price of BRE’s common stock on the closing date of the merger. As a result of Essex being admitted to the S&P 500 on the same date as the closing of the merger, Essex’s common stock price experienced significantly higher than usual trading volume and the closing price of $174 per share was significantly higher than its volume-weighted average trading price for the days before and after April 1, 2014. BRE’s common stock did not experience the same proportionate increase in common stock price leading up to April 1, 2014.  As a result, given that a substantial component of the purchase price is an exchange of equity instruments, Essex used the closing price of BRE’s common stock on April 1, 2014 of $61 per share, less the Cash Consideration, as the fair value of the equity consideration. After deducting the Special Dividend and the Cash Consideration per share, this resulted in a value of $48.67 per share of BRE common stock which is the equivalent of approximately $164 per share of Essex common stock issued.



Acquisitions of Real Estate



Acquisitions are an important component of the Company’s business plan, and during2015, the Company acquired ownership interests insevencommunities comprised of1,722apartment homes for$638.1 million.











The following is a summary of2015acquisitions ($ in millions):



Property NameLocationApartment HomesEssex Ownership PercentageOwnershipQuarter in 2015Purchase Price8th & HopeLos Angeles, CA290100%EPLPQ1$200.0The Huxley(1)Los Angeles, CA187100%EPLPQ148.8The Dylan(1)Los Angeles, CA184100%EPLPQ151.3Reveal(2)Woodland Hills, CA43899.75%EPLPQ273.0AvantLos Angeles, CA247100%EPLPQ299.0Avant IILos Angeles, CA193100%EPLPQ473.0EnsoSan Jose, CA183100%EPLPQ493.0Total 20151,722$638.1



(1)In March 2015, the Company purchased the joint venture partner's remaining membership interest in The Huxley and The Dylan co-investments for a purchase price of $100.1 million. The properties are now consolidated.

(2)In April 2015, the Company purchased the joint venture partner's 49.5% membership interest in the Reveal co-investment for a purchase price of $73.0 million. The property is now consolidated.



Dispositions of Real Estate



As part of its strategic plan to own quality real estate in supply-constrained markets, the Company continually evaluates all the communities and sells those which no longer meet its strategic criteria. The Company may use the capital generated from the dispositions to invest in higher-return communities or other real estate investments, or repay debts. The Company believes that the sale of these communities will not have a material impact on its future results of operations or cash flows nor will their sale materially affect its ongoing operations. Generally, the Company seeks to have any impact of earnings dilution resulting from these dispositions offset by the positive impact of its acquisitions, development and redevelopment activities.



During2015, the Company soldtwoapartment communities, Pinnacle South Mountain and Sharon Green, for a total of$308.8 million, resulting in total gains of $44.9 million. Additionally, in March 2015, the Company sold two commercial buildings, aggregating 120,000 square feet, located in Emeryville, CA, for $13.0 million, resulting in gains of $2.4 million.



Development Pipeline



The Company defines development projects as new communities that are being constructed or are newly constructed and are in a phase of lease-up and have not yet reached stabilized operations.  As ofDecember 31, 2015, the Company had two consolidated development projects and six joint venture development projects comprised of2,447apartment homes for an estimated cost of$1.4 billion, of which$787 millionremains to be expended, of which$542 millionis the Company's share.



The Company defines predevelopment projects as proposed communities in negotiation or in the entitlement process with an expected high likelihood of becoming entitled development projects. As ofDecember 31, 2015, the Company had various consolidated predevelopment projects. The Company may also acquire land for future development purposes or sale.











The following table sets forth information regarding the Company’s development pipeline ($ in millions):



As of12/31/2015EssexIncurredEstimatedDevelopment PipelineLocationOwnership%Apartment HomesProject Cost(1)Project Cost(1)Development Projects - ConsolidatedMB 360 - Phase IISan Francisco, CA100%172$119$135Station Park GreenSan Mateo, CA100%59983354Total - Consolidated Development Projects771202489Development Projects - Joint VentureEpic - Phase IIISan Jose, CA55%2008492Agora(2)Walnut Creek, CA51%498495OwensPleasanton, CA55%2555589HaciendaPleasanton, CA55%2513786Century TowersSan Jose, CA50%37693172500 Folsom(3)San Francisco, CA50%54562381Total - Joint Venture Development Projects1,676415915Predevelopment Projects - ConsolidatedOther Projectsvarious100%—4040Total - Predevelopment Projects—4040Grand Total - Development and Predevelopment Pipeline2,447$657$1,444



(1)Includes costs related to the entire project, including both the Company's and joint venture partners' costs. Includes incurred costs and estimated costs to complete these development projects. For predevelopment projects, only incurred costs are included in estimated costs.

(2)Estimated project costs for this development include costs to develop both residential and commercial space.

(3)Estimated project cost for this development is net of a projected value for low-income housing tax credit proceeds and savings from tax exempt bonds.



Redevelopment Pipeline



The Company defines the redevelopment pipeline as existing properties owned or recently acquired, which have been targeted for additional investment by the Company with the expectation of increased financial returns through property improvement.  During redevelopment, apartment homes may not be available for rent and, as a result, may have less than stabilized operations.  As ofDecember 31, 2015, the Company had ownership interests in five major redevelopment communities aggregating1,313apartment homes with estimated redevelopment costs of$159.8 million, of which approximately$82.5 millionremains to be expended.



Long Term Debt



During2015, the Company made regularly scheduled principal payments and loan payoffs of$118.3 millionof its secured mortgage notes payable at an average interest rate of5.3%.



In March 2015, the Company issued $500 million of 3.5% senior unsecured notes that mature in April 2025. The interest is payable semi-annually in arrears on April 1stand October 1stof each year, commencing October 1, 2015, until the maturity date in April 2025. The Company used the net proceeds of this offering to repay indebtedness under the Company's $1.0 billion unsecured line of credit facility, its $25.0 million unsecured working capital line and for other general corporate purposes.













Bank Debt



As ofDecember 31, 2015, Fitch Ratings ("Fitch"), Moody’s Investor Service, and Standard and Poor's (“S&P”) credit agencies rated Essex Property Trust, Inc. and Essex Portfolio, L.P. BBB+/Stable, Baa2/Positive, and BBB/Positive, respectively.



At December 31, 2015, the Company's $1.0 billion credit facility had an interest rate of LIBOR plus 0.95%, which is based on a tiered rate structure tied to the Company's credit ratings. In January 2016, the Company extended the maturity date on its $1.0 billion unsecured line of credit facility from December 2017 to December 2019, with one 18-month extension, exercisable by the Company and lowered the interest rate to LIBOR plus 0.90%.



Equity Transactions



During2015, ESS issued1,481,737shares of common stock at an average share price of$226.46for proceeds of$332.3 million, net of fees and commissions. ESS contributed the net proceeds to the Operating Partnership and used the proceeds to pay down debt, fund the development and redevelopment pipeline, fund acquisitions, and for general corporate purposes. During the first quarter of2016throughFebruary 22, 2016, ESS has not issued any shares under its equity distribution program.



Co-investments



The Company has entered into, and may continue in the future to enter into, joint ventures or partnerships (including limited liability companies) through which we own an indirect economic interest in less than 100% of the community or land owned directly by the joint venture or partnership. For each joint venture the Company holds a 50% to 55% non-controlling interest in the venture and will earn customary management fees and may earn development, asset property management fees and may also earn a promote interest.



The Company has also made, and may continue in the future to make, preferred equity investments in various multi-family development projects. The Company earns a preferred rate of return on these investments.



OFFICES AND EMPLOYEES



The Company is headquartered in San Mateo, California, and has regional offices in Woodland Hills, California; San Jose, California; Irvine, California; San Diego, California and Bellevue, Washington. As ofDecember 31, 2015, the Company had1,806employees.



INSURANCE



The Company purchases general liability and all risk property, including loss of rent, insurance coverage for each of its communities. The Company also purchases limited earthquake, terrorism, environmental and flood insurance.  There are certain types of losses which may not be covered or could exceed coverage limits. The insurance programs are subject to deductibles and self-insured retentions in varying amounts. The Company utilizes a wholly owned insurance subsidiary, Pacific Western Insurance LLC ("PWI") to self-insure certain earthquake and all risk losses. As ofDecember 31, 2015, PWI has cash and marketable securities of approximately$60.3 million, and is consolidated in the Company's financial statements.



All of the Company's communities are located in areas that are subject to earthquake activity. The Company evaluates its financial loss exposure to seismic events by using actuarial loss models developed by the insurance industry and property vulnerability based on structural evaluations of seismic consultants. The Company manages this exposure, where considered appropriate, desirable, and cost-effective, by upgrading properties to increase their resistance to forces caused by seismic events, by considering available funds and coverages provided by PWI and/or by purchasing seismic insurance. The Company also purchases limited earthquake insurance for certain properties owned by the Company's co-investments.

In addition, the Company carries other types of insurance coverage related to a variety of risks and exposures.

Based on market conditions, the Company may change or potentially eliminate insurance coverages, or increase levels of self-insurance. Further, the Company may incur losses, which could be material, due to uninsured risks, deductibles and self-insured retentions, and/or losses in excess of coverage limits.











COMPETITION



There are numerous housing alternatives that compete with the Company’s communities in attracting residents.  These include other apartment communities, condominiums and single-family homes.  If the demand for the Company’s communities is reduced or if competitors develop and/or acquire competing housing, rental rates and occupancy may drop which may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.



The Company faces competition from other real estate investment trusts, businesses and other entities in the acquisition, development and operation of apartment communities.  Some competitors are larger and have greater financial resources than the Company.  This competition may result in increased costs of apartment communities the Company acquires and or develops.



WORKING CAPITAL



The Company believes that cash flows generated by its operations, existing cash and marketable securities balances, availability under existing lines of credit, access to capital markets and the ability to generate cash from the disposition of real estate are sufficient to meet all of its reasonably anticipated cash needs during2016.



The timing, source and amounts of cash flows provided by financing activities and used in investing activities are sensitive to changes in interest rates, stock price, and other fluctuations in the capital markets environment, which can affect the Company’s plans for acquisitions, dispositions, development and redevelopment activities.



ENVIRONMENTAL CONSIDERATIONS



See the discussion under the caption, “Risks Related to Real Estate Investments and Our Operations -The Company’s Portfolio may have environmental liabilities” in Item 1A, Risk Factors, for information concerning the potential effect of environmental regulations on its operations, which discussion under the caption “The Company’s Portfolio may have environmental liabilities” is incorporated by reference into this Item 1.



OTHER MATTERS



Certain Policies of the Company



The Company intends to continue to operate in a manner that will not subject it to regulation under the Investment Company Act of 1940. The Company has in the past five years and may in the future (i) issue securities senior to its common stock, (ii) fund acquisition activities with borrowings under its line of credit and (iii) offer shares of common stock and/or units of limited partnership interest in the Operating Partnership or affiliated partnerships as partial consideration for property acquisitions. The Company from time to time acquires partnership interests in partnerships and joint ventures, either directly or indirectly through subsidiaries of the Company, when such entities’ underlying assets are real estate.



The Company invests primarily in apartment communities that are located in predominantly coastal markets within Southern California, the San Francisco Bay Area, and the Seattle metropolitan area. The Company currently intends to continue to invest in apartment communities in such regions.  However, these practices may be reviewed and modified periodically by management.













