Item1. Business



OVERVIEW



Essex
Property Trust, Inc. (“Essex” or the “Company”) is a Maryland corporation that
operates as a self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust
(“REIT”).  The Company owns all of its interest in its real estate
investments directly or indirectly through Essex Portfolio, L.P. (the “Operating
Partnership”).  The Company is the sole general partner of the
Operating Partnership and as of December 31, 2009 owns a 92.3% general
partnership interest.   In this report, the terms “we,” “us” and
“our” refer to Essex Property Trust, its Operating Partnership and the Operating
Partnership’s subsidiaries.



The
Company has elected to be treated as a REIT for federal income tax purposes,
commencing with the year ended December 31, 1994 as the Company completed an
initial public offering on June 13, 1994.  In order to maintain
compliance with REIT tax rules, the Company utilizes taxable REIT subsidiaries
for various revenue generating or investment activities. All taxable REIT
subsidiaries are consolidated by the Company.



We are
engaged primarily in the ownership, operation, management, acquisition,
development and redevelopment of predominantly apartment
communities.  As of December 31, 2009, we owned or held an interest in
133 apartment communities, aggregating 27,248 units, located along the West
Coast, as well as five office buildings (totaling approximately 215,840 square
feet), and four active development projects with 581 units in various stages of
development (collectively, the “Portfolio”).



The
Company’s website address ishttp://www.essexpropertytrust.com.  The
Company’s annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current
reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports, and the Proxy Statement
for its Annual Meeting of Stockholders are available, free of charge, on our
website as soon as practicable after we file the reports with the Securities and
Exchange Commission (“SEC”).



BUSINESS
STRATEGIES



The
following is a discussion of our business strategies in regards to real estate
investment and management.



Business
Strategies



Research Driven
Approach–We
believe that successful real estate investment decisions and portfolio growth
begin with extensive regional economic research and local market
knowledge.



Utilizing
a proprietary research model that we have developed over the last two decades,
we continually assess markets where we currently operate, as well as markets
where we consider future investment opportunities by evaluating the
following:



·Markets
      in major metropolitan areas that have regional population primarily in
      excess of one million;

·Constraints
      on new supply driven by: (i) low availability of developable land sites
      where competing housing could be built; (ii) political growth barriers,
      such as protected land, urban growth boundaries, and potential lengthy and
      expensive development permit processes; and (iii) natural limitations to
      development, such as mountains or
waterways;

·Rental
      demand is enhanced by affordability of rents compared to expensive
      for-sale housing; and

·Housing
      demand that is based on proximity to jobs, high quality of life and
      related commuting factors, as well as potential job
  growth.



Recognizing
that all real estate markets are cyclical, we regularly evaluate the results of
our regional economic, as well as our local market research, and adjust the
geographic focus of our portfolio accordingly. We seek to increase our portfolio
allocation in markets projected to have the strongest local economies and to
decrease such allocations in markets projected to have declining economic
conditions.  Likewise, the Company also seeks to increase its
portfolio allocation in markets that have attractive property valuations and to
decrease such allocations in markets that have inflated valuations and low
relative yields.





Property
Operations– We manage our communities by focusing on strategies that
will generate above-average rental growth, tenant retention/satisfaction and
long-term asset appreciation. We intend to achieve this by utilizing the
strategies set forth below:



·Property Management–The Chief
      Operating Officer, Senior Vice President of Operations, Divisional
      Managers, Regional Portfolio Managers and Area Managers are accountable
      for the performance and maintenance of the communities. They supervise,
      provide training for the on-site managers, review actual performance
      against budget, monitor market trends and prepare operating and capital
      budgets.

·Capital Preservation –The Capital and Maintenance department is responsible for the planning,
      budgeting and completion of major capital improvement projects at our
      communities.

·Business Planning and Control
      –Comprehensive business plans are implemented in conjunction with
      every investment decision.  These plans include benchmarks for
      future financial performance, based on collaborative discussions between
      on-site managers and senior
management.

·Development and Redevelopment
      –We focus on acquiring and developing apartment communities in
      supply constrained markets, and redeveloping our existing communities to
      improve the financial and physical aspects of our
    communities.



CURRENT
BUSINESS ACTIVITIES



Acquisitions
of Real Estate



Acquisitions
are an important component of our business plan, and during 2009, we completed
the acquisition of two communities totaling $43.0 million.



·In
      December, the Company acquired Axis 2300 (formerly known as “DuPont
      Lofts”), a 115-unit condominium development project in Irvine, California
      for $27.0 million.  The project is 85 percent complete and will
      require an additional six months of construction and estimated remaining
      costs of development are $9.1 million, consisting primarily of unit
      interior finishes.  Following construction, the Company intends
      to operate the asset as an apartment community.  All units
      feature 11-foot ceilings, custom finishes, a washer and dryer and a
      fireplace.



·Also
      during December, the Company acquired Regency at Encino, a 75-unit
      community located in Encino, California for $16.0 million. The community
      features upgraded appliances and finishes in 51 of the
      units.  The Company intends to renovate the additional 24 units
      upon normal resident turnover.  All units feature 9-foot
      ceilings and a washer and dryer.



In
November, the Company acquired a 3.6 acre site in Dublin, California for $5.0
million.  The land parcel is located adjacent to the Dublin Bay Area
Rapid Transit station, and the Company intends to pursue entitlements on this
land parcel for future development.



The 2010
acquisition plan targets the purchase of up to $300 million of real
estate.



Dispositions
of Real Estate



As part
of our strategic plan to own quality real estate in supply-constrained markets
the Company continually evaluates all the communities and sell those which no
longer meet our strategic criteria.  The Company may use the capital
generated from the dispositions to invest in higher-return communities or other
real estate investments, repurchase the Company’s common stock, or repay
debts.  The Company believes that the sale of these communities will
not have a material impact on our future results of operations or cash flows nor
will their sale materially affect our ongoing operations. Generally, the Company
seeks to have any impact of earnings dilution resulting from these dispositions
offset by the positive impact of its acquisitions, development and redevelopment
activities.



In 2009,
in accordance with our strategic plan, the Company sold five apartment
communities for gross proceeds of $38.0 million for an aggregate gain of $8.6
million.





The 2010
disposition plan targets the sale of up to $100 million of real
estate.



Development
Pipeline



The
Company defines development activities as new communities that are in various
stages of active development, or the community is in lease-up and phases of the
project are not completed.  As of December 31, 2009, the Company had
four development projects comprised of 581 units for an estimated cost of $216.1
million, of which $65.9 million remains to be expended.



The Joule
Broadway project, a 295-unit development in Seattle, Washington had $26.7
million in estimated costs remaining to be funded in 2010 and such costs will be
funded by a construction loan that is variable based on LIBOR plus 155 basis
points and matures in June 2011 with two one-year extension options, exercisable
at the Company’s option.  The estimated remaining costs to be incurred
totaling $39.2 million for the other three active development projects including
Fourth & U, Tasman Retail Pad and Garage, and Axis 2300 will be financed by
the Company’s lines of credit.



The
following table sets forth information regarding the Company’s consolidated
development pipeline:



As
      of 12/31/09 ($ in millions)IncurredEstimatedEstimatedDevelopment
      PipelineLocationUnitsProject
      CostRemaining
      CostProject
      Cost(1)Development ProjectsFourth
      & UBerkeley,
      CA171$49.5$13.8$63.3Joule
      BrodwaySeattle,
      WA29568.126.794.8Tasman
      Retail Pad and GarageSunnyvale,
      CA-5.416.321.7Axis
      2300Irvine,
      CA11527.29.136.3581150.265.9216.1Predevelopment
      projectsvarious33253.789.3143.0Land
      held for future development or salevarious1,32971.1-71.1Development
      Pipeline2,242$275.0$155.2$430.2



(1)Includes incurred costs and
estimated costs to complete these development projects.



The
Company defines the predevelopment pipeline as proposed communities in
negotiation or in the entitlement process with a high likelihood of becoming
entitled development projects.  As of December 31, 2009, the Company
had two development projects aggregating 332 units that were classified as
predevelopment projects.  The estimated total cost of the
predevelopment pipeline at December 31, 2009 was $143.0 million, of which $89.3
million remains to be expended.   The Company may also acquire
land for future development purposes or sale.   The Company has
incurred $71.1 million in costs related to land held for future development or
sale aggregating 1,329 units as of December 31, 2009.



Redevelopment
Pipeline



The
Company defines redevelopment communities as existing properties owned or
recently acquired, which have been targeted for additional investment by the
Company with the expectation of increased financial returns through property
improvement.  During redevelopment, apartment units may not be
available for rent and, as a result, may have less than stabilized
operations.  As of December 31, 2009, the Company had ownership
interests in nine redevelopment communities aggregating 2,659 apartment units
with estimated redevelopment costs of $128.0 million, of which approximately
$41.6 million remains to be expended.



Mortgage
Debt Transactions



During
2009, the Company obtained fixed rate mortgage loans due in 10 years totaling
$176.6 million for an average interest rate of 5.8% and paid-off mortgage loans
totaling $23.6 million for an average interest rate of 6.9%.



Lines
of Credit



In the
fourth quarter, the Company entered into a new $200 million unsecured line of
credit facility and cancelled the existing $200 million unsecured facility which
was to mature in March 2010.  The new unsecured facility has a one
year maturity with two one-year extension options, exercisable at the Company’s
option, and the underlying interest rate on this unsecured facility is based on
a tiered rate structure tied to the Company's corporate ratings and is currently
at LIBOR plus 3.00%.





Also in
the fourth quarter, the Company exercised its option to increase the borrowing
capacity of the secured line of credit facility from $150 million to $250
million which matures in December 2013.



Equity
and Noncontrolling Interest Transactions



During
the first quarter of 2009, the Company, under its stock repurchase program,
repurchased and retired 350,000 shares of its common stock for approximately
$20.3 million, at an average stock price of $57.89 per share.



During
2009, the Company issued 2,740,450 shares of common stock at an average share
price of $73.54 for $198.5 million, net of fees and commissions.  The
Company used the net proceeds to invest in marketable securities and to fund the
development pipeline.



During
2009, the Company repurchased $145.0 million of 4.875% Series G Cumulative
Convertible Preferred Stock at a discount to par value of $50.0
million.



ESSEX
APARTMENT VALUE FUND II



Essex
Apartment Value Fund II, L.P. (“Fund II”) is an investment fund formed by the
Company to add value through rental growth and asset appreciation, utilizing the
Company's development, redevelopment and asset management
capabilities.



Fund II
has eight institutional investors, and the Company, with combined partner equity
commitments of $265.9 million which were fully contributed as of December
2008.  The Company contributed $75.0 million to Fund II, which
represents a 28.2% interest as general partner and limited partner, and the
Company uses the equity method of accounting for its investment in Fund
II.  Fund II utilized leverage equal to approximately 55% upon the
initial acquisition of the underlying real estate.  Fund II invested
in apartment communities in the Company’s targeted West Coast markets and, as of
December 31, 2009, owned fourteen apartment communities.  The
Company records revenue for its asset management, property management,
development and redevelopment services when earned, and promote income when
realized if Fund II exceeds certain financial return benchmarks.



OFFICES
AND EMPLOYEES



The
Company is headquartered in Palo Alto, California, and has regional offices in
Woodland Hills, California; Irvine, California; San Diego, California and
Bellevue, Washington. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had 938
employees.



INSURANCE



The
Company carries comprehensive liability, fire, extended coverage and rental loss
insurance for each of the communities.  Insured risks for
comprehensive liabilities covers claims in excess of $25,000 per incident, and
property casualty insurance covers losses in excess of a $5.0 million deductible
per incident. There are, however, certain types of extraordinary losses, such
as, for example, losses from terrorism and earthquakes, for which the Company
does not have insurance.  Substantially all of the communities are
located in areas that are subject to earthquakes.



The
Company believes it has a proactive approach to its potential earthquake
losses.  The Company utilizes third-party seismic consultants for its
acquisitions and may perform seismic upgrades to those acquisitions that are
determined to have a higher level of potential loss from an
earthquake.  The Company utilizes third-party loss models to help to
determine its exposure.  The majority of the communities are lower
density garden-style apartments which may be less susceptible to material
earthquake damage.  The Company will continue to monitor third-party
earthquake insurance pricing and conditions and may consider obtaining
third-party coverage if it deems it cost effective.



Although
the Company may carry insurance for potential losses associated with its
communities, employees, residents, and compliance with applicable laws, it may
still incur losses due to uninsured risks, deductibles, co-payments or losses in
excess of applicable insurance coverage and those losses may be
material.





COMPETITION



There are
numerous housing alternatives that compete with the Company’s communities in
attracting residents.  These include other apartment communities and
single-family homes that are available for rent in the markets in which the
apartment communities are located.  The communities also compete for
residents with new and existing homes and condominiums that are for
sale.  If the demand for our communities is reduced or if competitors
develop and/or acquire competing apartment communities on a more cost-effective
basis, rental rates and occupancy may drop which may have a material adverse
affect on our financial condition and results of operations.



The
Company faces competition from other real estate investment trusts, businesses
and other entities in the acquisition, development and operation of apartment
communities.  Some competitors are larger and have greater financial
resources than the Company.  This competition may result in increased
costs of apartment communities the Company acquires and/or
develops.



WORKING
CAPITAL



The
Company believes that cash flows generated by its operations, existing cash and
marketable securities balances, availability under existing lines of credit,
access to capital markets and the ability to generate cash from the disposition
of real estate are sufficient to meet all of our reasonably anticipated cash
needs during 2010.  The timing, source and amounts of cash flows
provided by financing activities and used in investing activities are sensitive
to changes in interest rates and other fluctuations in the capital markets
environment, which can affect our plans for acquisitions, dispositions,
development and redevelopment activities.



ENVIRONMENTAL
CONSIDERATIONS



See the
discussion under the caption, “The Company’s Portfolio may have
unknown environmental liabilities” in Item 1A, Risk Factors, for
information concerning the potential effect of environmental regulations on our
operations.



OTHER
MATTERS



Certain
Policies of the Company



We intend
to continue to operate in a manner that will not subject us to regulation under
the Investment Company Act of 1940. The Company has in the past five years and
may in the future (i) issue securities senior to its common stock, (ii) fund
acquisition activities with borrowings under its line of credit and (iii) offer
shares of common stock and/or units of limited partnership interest in the
Operating Partnership or affiliated partnerships as partial consideration for
property acquisitions. The Company from time to time acquires partnership
interests in partnerships and joint ventures, either directly or indirectly
through subsidiaries of the Company, when such entities’ underlying assets are
real estate.



We invest
primarily in apartment communities that are located in predominantly coastal
markets within Southern California, the San Francisco Bay Area, and the Seattle
metropolitan area. The Company currently intends to continue to invest in
apartment communities in such regions.  However, these practices may
be reviewed and modified periodically by management.



