Item 1Business



OVERVIEW



Essex Property Trust, Inc. (“Essex” or the “Company”) is a Maryland corporation that operates as a self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust (“REIT”).  The Company owns all of its interest in its real estate investments directly or indirectly through Essex Portfolio, L.P. (the “Operating Partnership”).  The Company is the sole general partner of the Operating Partnership and as of December 31, 2011 owns a 93.8% general partnership interest.   In this report, the terms “Essex” or the “Company” also refer to Essex Property Trust, Inc., its Operating Partnership and the Operating Partnership’s subsidiaries.



The Company has elected to be treated as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, commencing with the year ended December 31, 1994 as the Company completed an initial public offering on June 13, 1994.  In order to maintain compliance with REIT tax rules, the Company utilizes taxable REIT subsidiaries for various revenue generating or investment activities. All taxable REIT subsidiaries are consolidated by the Company.



The Company is engaged primarily in the ownership, operation, management, acquisition, development and redevelopment of predominantly apartment communities.  As of December 31, 2011, the Company owned or held an interest in 159 communities, aggregating 32,753 units, located along the West Coast, as well as five commercial buildings (totaling approximately 315,900 square feet), and five active development projects with 1,235 units in various stages of development (collectively, the “Portfolio”).



The Company’s website address ishttp://www.essexpropertytrust.com.  The Company’s annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports, and the Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting of Stockholders are available, free of charge, on its website as soon as practicable after the Company files the reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).



BUSINESS STRATEGIES



The following is a discussion of the Company’s business strategies in regards to real estate investment and management



Business Strategies



Research Driven Approach–The Company believes that successful real estate investment decisions and portfolio growth begin with extensive regional economic research and local market knowledge.Utilizing a proprietary research model that the Company has developed over the last three decades, the Company continually assesses markets where the Company operates, as well as markets where the Company considers future investment opportunities by evaluating the following:

·Focus on markets in major metropolitan areas that have regional population in excess of one million;

·Constraints on new supply driven by: (i) low availability of developable land sites where competing housing could be economically built; (ii) political growth barriers, such as protected land, urban growth boundaries, and potential lengthy and expensive development permit processes; and (iii) natural limitations to development, such as mountains or waterways;





·Rental demand is enhanced by affordability of rents relative to costs of for-sale housing; and

·Housing demand that is based on proximity to jobs, high median incomes, the quality of life and related commuting factors, as well as potential job growth



Recognizing that all real estate markets are cyclical, the Company regularly evaluates the results of its regional economic, and its local market research, and adjusts the geographic focus of its portfolio accordingly.  The Company seeks to increase its Portfolio allocation in markets projected to have the strongest local economies and to decrease such allocations in markets projected to have declining economic conditions.  Likewise, the Company also seeks to increase its portfolio allocation in markets that have attractive property valuations and to decrease such allocations in markets that have inflated valuations and low relative yields.Property Operations– The Company manages its communities by focusing on strategies that will generate above-average rental growth, tenantretention/satisfaction and long-term asset appreciation.  The Company intends to achieve this by utilizing the strategies set forth below:

·Property Management–The Senior Vice President of Operations, Divisional Managers, Regional Portfolio Managers and Area Managers are accountable for the performance and maintenance of the communities They supervise, provide training for the on-site managers, review actual performance against budget, monitor market trends and prepare operating and capital budgets.

·Capital Preservation –The Executive Vice President and First Vice President of Asset Management and the Capital and Maintenance department are responsible for the planning, budgeting and completion of major capital improvement projects at the Company’s communities.

·Business Planning and Control –Comprehensive business plans are implemented in conjunction with every investment decision  These plans include benchmarks for future financial performance, based on collaborative discussions between on-site managers and senior management.

·Development and Redevelopment –The Company focuses on acquiring and developing apartment communities in supply constrained markets, and redeveloping its existing communities to improve the financial and physical aspects of the Company’s communities.



CURRENT BUSINESS ACTIVITIES



Acquisitions of Real Estate



Acquisitions are an important component of the Company’s business plan, and during 2011, the Company acquired ownership interest in eleven communities totaling $533 million  The following is a summary of its 2011 acquisitions:



1)In March, the Company acquired Santee Village, a 73-unit vacant condominium community that is operated as a rental community located in downtown Los Angeles for $170 million. This community is adjacent to Santee Court apartments which the Company acquired in 2010.

2)Also in March, the Company purchased 1000 Kiely (formerly Family Tree Apartments), a 121-unit garden-style community located in Santa Clara, California for $31.4 million.

3)In June, the Company acquired Bellerive, a recently constructed 63-unit vacant condominium project that is operated as a rental community located in West Los Angeles for $27.0 million.

4)In May, the Company entered into a 50/50 programmatic joint venture, Wesco I, LLC (“Wesco I”), with an institutional partner for a total equity commitment of $200 million.  Wesco I's first acquisition was Arbors at Parc Rose, a 373-unit community located in Oxnard, California, for $92.0 million.

5)In July, Wesco I acquired Reveal (formerly Millennium at Warner Center), a 438-unit community located in the Canoga Park area of Los Angeles.  The property, which was completed in 2010, was acquired for $132.9 million.

6)In September, the Company acquired the Bernard, a 63-unit community located in the Lower Queen Anne district of Seattle, Washington for $13.8 million.





7)In September, Wesco I acquired Redmond Hill East and Redmond Hill West, a group of communities built between 1985 and 2003 totaling 882-units in Redmond, Washington.  The properties are operated as two separate communities and the total purchase price was $151.3 million.

8)In November, Wesco I acquired Briarwood for $27.8 million  The property is a 160-unit community located in Fremont, California that was built in 1979.

9)Also in November, Wesco I acquired The Woods for $25.2 million.  The property is a 160-unit community built in 1978 and located less than a half mile from Briarwood, in Fremont, California.

10)In December, the Company acquired Delano, a 66-unit community located in Redmond, Washington for $14.1 million.



Dispositions of Real Estate



As part of its strategic plan to own quality real estate in supply-constrained markets, the Company continually evaluates all the communities and sells those which no longer meet its strategic criteria.  The Company may use the capital generated from the dispositions to invest in higher-return communities or other real estate investments, repurchase the Company’s common stock, or repay debts.  The Company believes that the sale of these communities will not have a material impact on its future results of operations or cash flows nor will their sale materially affect its ongoing operations. Generally, the Company seeks to have any impact of earnings dilution resulting from these dispositions offset by the positive impact of its acquisitions, development and redevelopment activities.



During 2011, the Company sold one apartment community, Woodlawn Colonial, and one office building, Clarendon for a total of $23.4 million resulting in a gain of $8.4 million.



Marketable Securities



During the year ended December 31, 2011, the proceeds from sales of available for sale securities totaled $33.0 million, which resulted in gains, which totaled $5.0 million.



Development Pipeline



The Company defines development activities as new communities that are in various stages of active development, or the community is in lease-up and phases of the project are not completed.  As of December 31, 2011, the Company had five joint venture development projects comprised of 1,235 units for an estimated cost of $422.6 million, of which $282.6 million remains to be expended.



The following table sets forth information regarding the Company’s development pipeline:



As of 12/31/11 ($ in millions)Development PipelineLocationOwnership%UnitsIncurredProject CostEstimatedRemaining CostEstimatedProject Cost(1)Development Projects - Joint VentureQueen AnneSeattle, WA50%275$33.5$45.6$79.1Epic (formerly Cadence) Phase ISan Jose, CA55%28036.761.998.6West DublinDublin, CA55%30923.171.494.5Fountain at La BreaWest Hollywood, CA50%18727.048.075.0Santa Monica at La BreaWest Hollywood, CA50%18419.755.775.41,235140.0$282.6$422.6Predevelopment project - joint ventureSan Jose, CA55%48142.8Land held for future development or salevarious29844.3Development Pipeline2,014$227.1



(1)Includes incurred costs and estimated costs to complete these development projects



The Company defines the predevelopment pipeline as proposed communities in negotiation or in the entitlement process with a high likelihood of becoming entitled development projects.  As of December 31, 2011, the Company had one joint venture development project aggregating 481 units that was classified as a predevelopment project, with cost incurred of $42.8 million.  The Company may also acquire land for future development purposes or sale.   The Company had incurred $44.3 million in costs related to land held for future development or sale aggregating 298 units as of December 31, 2011.



Redevelopment Pipeline



The Company defines redevelopment communities as existing properties owned or recently acquired, which have been targeted for additional investment by the Company with the expectation of increased financial returns through property improvement.  During redevelopment, apartment units may not be available for rent and, as a result, may have less than stabilized operations.  As of December 31, 2011, the Company had ownership interests in six redevelopment communities aggregating 1,444 apartment units with estimated redevelopment costs of $96.4 million, of which approximately $43.1 million remains to be expended.



Secured Debt



During 2011, the Company paid off construction loans, tax-exempt bonds, and mortgage loans totaling $116.1 million with an average interest rate of 3.3%, and obtained fixed rate secured mortgage loans totaling $51.9 million with an average interest rate of 5.4%.  In conjunction with obtaining the new mortgage loans, the Company settled the remaining $20.0 million of forward-starting swap contracts which increased the average effective interest rate of the new mortgage loans to 6.2%.

Unsecured Debt



During 2011, the Company issued $265.0 million of unsecured bonds through private placement offerings, $150.0 million at 4.4% with a maturity date of March 2016, $40.0 million at 4.5% with a maturity date of September 2017, and $75.0 million at 4.92% with a maturity date of December 2019.The proceeds from the bond offerings were used primarily to repay outstanding mortgages, redeem the Series F Preferred Stock, and pay down the Company’s line of credit.  During the fourth quarter of 2011, the Company closed a five-year, $200 million unsecured term loan.  The term loan has a variable interest rate of LIBOR plus 142.5 basis points.  In conjunction with this transaction the Company has entered into interest rate swap contracts for a term of five years with a total notional amount of $150 million.  The interest rate swaps effectively convert the borrowing rate on $150 million of the $200 million variable rate unsecured term to a fixed rate of 2.66%.



Lines of Credit



The Company entered into a new unsecured line of credit agreement during the third quarter of 2011 which has a $425.0 million limit with an accordion option to $500.0 million.  As of December 31, 2011 there was a $150.0 million balance on this unsecured line.  The underlying interest rate on the $425.0 million line is based on a tiered rate structure tied to Fitch and S&P ratings on the credit facility and the rate was LIBOR plus 1.25% as of December 31, 2011.  This facility matures in December 2014 with two one-year extensions, exercisable by the Company.



The Company also had a $250.0 million credit facility from Freddie Mac, which was secured by eleven apartment communities.  The Company terminated the line of credit in the fourth quarter of 2011 and accordingly wrote-off the related deferred finance charges totaling $0.6 million for year ended December 31, 2011.



Preferred Securities



During the second quarter of 2011, the Company issued 2,950,000 shares of 7.125% Series H Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock (“Series H”) at a price of $25.00 per share for net proceeds of $71.2 million, net of costs and original issuance discounts.  Net proceeds from the Series H offering were used to redeem all of the 7.875% Series B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units of Essex Portfolio, L.P. (“Series B”) with a liquidation value of $80.0 million. The Company also redeemed its 7.8125% Series F Preferred Stock (“Series F”) at liquidation value for $25.0 million.





Equity Transactions



During 2011, the Company issued 2.5 million shares of common stock at an average share price of $133.29 for $323.9 million, net of fees and commissions.  The Company used the net proceeds from the stock offerings to pay down debt, fund redevelopment and development pipelines, fund acquisitions, and for general corporate purposes.

ESSEX APARTMENT VALUE FUND II



Essex Apartment Value Fund II, L.P. (“Fund II”) is an investment fund formed by the Company to add value through rental growth and asset appreciation, utilizing the Company's development, redevelopment, and property and asset management capabilities.Fund II has eight institutional investors, and the Company, with combined partner equity contributions of $265.9 million.  The Company contributed $75.0 million to Fund II, which represents a 28.2% interest as general partner and limited partner, and the Company uses the equity method of accounting for its investment in Fund II.  Fund II utilized leverage equal to approximately 55% upon the initial acquisition of the underlying real estate.  Fund II invested in apartment communities in the Company’s targeted West Coast markets and, as of December 31, 2011, owned fourteen apartment communities.  The Company records revenue for its asset management, property management, development and redevelopment services when earned, and promote income when realized if Fund II exceeds certain financial return benchmarks.

WESCO I, LLC



In 2011, the Company entered into a 50/50 programmatic joint venture, Wesco I, LLC (“Wesco I”), with an institutional partner for a total equity commitment of $200.0 million.  Each partner’s equity commitment is $100.0 million, and Wesco I will utilize leverage equal to approximately 50% to 60%.  The Company has contributed $78.3 million to Wesco, and as of December 31, 2011, Wesco I owned six apartment communities with 2,013 units with an aggregate purchase price of $429.2 million.  Investments must meet certain criteria to qualify for inclusion in the joint venture and both partners must approve any new acquisitions and material dispositions. The joint venture has an investment period of up to two years.  The Company receives asset and property management fees, and may earn a promoted interest.

OFFICES AND EMPLOYEES



The Company is headquartered in Palo Alto, California, and has regional offices in Woodland Hills, California; Irvine, California; San Diego, California and Bellevue, Washington.  As of December 31, 2011, the Company had 1,099 employees.

INSURANCE



The Company carries comprehensive liability, fire, extended coverage and rental loss insurance for each of the communities.  Insured risks for comprehensive liabilities covers claims in excess of $25,000 per incident, and property casualty insurance covers losses in excess of a $5.0 million deductible per incident. There are, however, certain types of extraordinary losses, such as, losses from terrorism and earthquakes, for which the Company does not have insurance.  Substantially all of the communities are located in areas that are subject to earthquakes.



The Company believes it has a proactive approach to its potential earthquake losses.  The Company utilizes third-party seismic consultants for its acquisitions and may perform seismic upgrades to those acquisitions that are determined to have a higher level of potential loss from an earthquake.  The Company utilizes third-party loss models to help to determine its exposure.  The majority of the communities are lower density garden-style apartments which may be less susceptible to material earthquake damage.  The Company will continue to monitor third-party earthquake insurance pricing and conditions and may consider obtaining third-party coverage if it deems it cost effective.



Although the Company may carry insurance for potential losses associated with its communities, employees, residents, and compliance with applicable laws, it may still incur losses due to uninsured risks, deductibles, co-payments or losses in excess of applicable insurance coverage and those losses may be material.





COMPETITION



There are numerous housing alternatives that compete with the Company’s communities in attracting residents.  These include other apartment communities, and single-family homes.  The communities also compete for residents with new and existing condominiums.  If the demand for the Company’s communities is reduced or if competitors develop and/or acquire competing housing, rental rates and occupancy may drop which may have a material adverse affect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.



The Company faces competition from other real estate investment trusts, businesses and other entities in the acquisition, development and operation of apartment communities.  Some competitors are larger and have greater financial resources than the Company.  This competition may result in increased costs of apartment communities the Company acquires and or develops.



WORKING CAPITAL



The Company believes that cash flows generated by its operations, existing cash and marketable securities balances, availability under existing lines of credit, access to capital markets and the ability to generate cash from the disposition of real estate are sufficient to meet all of its reasonably anticipated cash needs during 2012.  The timing, source and amounts of cash flows provided by financing activities and used in investing activities are sensitive to changes in interest rates and other fluctuations in the capital markets environment, which can affect its plans for acquisitions, dispositions, development and redevelopment activities.



ENVIRONMENTAL CONSIDERATIONS



See the discussion under the caption, “The Company’s Portfolio may have unknown environmental liabilities” in Item 1A, Risk Factors, for information concerning the potential effect of environmental regulations on its operations, which discussion under the caption “The Company’s Portfolio may have unknown environmental liabilities” is incorporated by reference into this Item 1.



OTHER MATTERS



Certain Policies of the Company



The Company intends to continue to operate in a manner that will not subject it to regulation under the Investment Company Act of 1940. The Company has in the past five years and may in the future (i) issue securities senior to its common stock, (ii) fund acquisition activities with borrowings under its line of credit and (iii) offer shares of common stock and/or units of limited partnership interest in the Operating Partnership or affiliated partnerships as partial consideration for property acquisitions. The Company from time to time acquires partnership interests in partnerships and joint ventures, either directly or indirectly through subsidiaries of the Company, when such entities’ underlying assets are real estate.



The Company invests primarily in apartment communities that are located in predominantly coastal markets within Southern California, the San Francisco Bay Area, and the Seattle metropolitan area. The Company currently intends to continue to invest in apartment communities in such regions.  However, these practices may be reviewed and modified periodically by management.



