Item 1. Business



OVERVIEW



Essex Property Trust, Inc. ("Essex" or the "Company") is a Maryland corporation that operates as a self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust ("REIT").  The Company owns all of its interest in its real estate investments directly or indirectly through Essex Portfolio, L.P. (the "Operating Partnership").  The Company is the sole general partner of the Operating Partnership and as of December 31, 2010 owns a 93.4% general partnership interest.   In this report, the Company also refers to Essex Property Trust, Inc. its Operating Partnership and the Operating Partnership's subsidiaries.



The Company has elected to be treated as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, commencing with the year ended December 31, 1994 as the Company completed an initial public offering on June 13, 1994.  In order to maintain compliance with REIT tax rules, the Company utilizes taxable REIT subsidiaries for various revenue generating or investment activities. All taxable REIT subsidiaries are consolidated by the Company.



The Company is engaged primarily in the ownership, operation, management, acquisition, development and redevelopment of predominantly apartment communities.  As of December 31, 2010, the Company owned or held an interest in 147 apartment communities, aggregating 30,072 units, located along the West Coast, as well as five commercial buildings (totaling approximately 215,840 square feet), and two active development projects with 436 units in various stages of development (collectively, the "Portfolio").



The Company's website address ishttp://www.essexpropertytrust.com.  The Company's annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports, and the Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting of Stockholders are available, free of charge, on its website as soon as practicable after the Company files the reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").



BUSINESS STRATEGIES



The following is a discussion of the Company's business strategies in regards to real estate investment and management.



Business Strategies



Research Driven Approach–The Company believes that successful real estate investment decisions and portfolio growth begin with extensive regional economic research and local market knowledge.



Utilizing a proprietary research model that the Company has developed over the last two decades, the Company continually assesses markets where the Company operates, as well as markets where the Company considers future investment opportunities by evaluating the following:



·Focus on markets in major metropolitan areas that have regional population in excess of one million;

·Constraints on new supply driven by: (i) low availability of developable land sites where competing housing could be economically built; (ii) political growth barriers, such as protected land, urban growth boundaries, and potential lengthy and expensive development permit processes; and (iii) natural limitations to development, such as mountains or waterways;





·Rental demand is enhanced by affordability of rents relative to costs of for-sale housing; and

·Housing demand that is based on proximity to jobs, high median incomes, the quality of life and related commuting factors, as well as potential job growth.



Recognizing that all real estate markets are cyclical, the Company regularly evaluates the results of its regional economic, as well as its local market research, and adjusts the geographic focus of its portfolio accordingly.  The Company seeks to increase its Portfolio allocation in markets projected to have the strongest local economies and to decrease such allocations in markets projected to have declining economic conditions.  Likewise, the Company also seeks to increase its portfolio allocation in markets that have attractive property valuations and to decrease such allocations in markets that have inflated valuations and low relative yields.



Property Operations– The Company manages its communities by focusing on strategies that will generate above-average rental growth, tenant retention/satisfaction and long-term asset appreciation.  The Company intends to achieve this by utilizing the strategies set forth below:



·Property Management–The Senior Vice President of Operations, Divisional Managers, Regional Portfolio Managers and Area Managers are accountable for the performance and maintenance of the communities. They supervise, provide training for the on-site managers, review actual performance against budget, monitor market trends and prepare operating and capital budgets.

·Capital Preservation –The Executive Vice President of Asset Management and the Capital and Maintenance department are responsible for the planning, budgeting and completion of major capital improvement projects at the Company's communities.

·Business Planning and Control –Comprehensive business plans are implemented in conjunction with every investment decision.  These plans include benchmarks for future financial performance, based on collaborative discussions between on-site managers and senior management.

·Development and Redevelopment –The Company focuses on acquiring and developing apartment communities in supply constrained markets, and redeveloping its existing communities to improve the financial and physical aspects of the Company's communities.



CURRENT BUSINESS ACTIVITIES



Acquisitions of Real Estate



Acquisitions are an important component of the Company's business plan, and during 2010, the Company completed the acquisition of twelve communities totaling $584 million.  The following is a summary of its 2010 acquisitions:



1)In March, the Company entered into a joint venture that acquired Essex Skyline at MacArthur Place, a new 349-unit high rise condominium project that is operated as an apartment community.  The property is located in Santa Ana, California and was purchased for $128 million (roughly 55% of its initial construction cost).  The property consists of two adjacent 25-story towers with floor to ceiling windows, sizeable floor plans, and each unit features Viking appliances, hardwood and tile floors, and nine to eleven foot ceilings.

2)In June, the Company acquired Eagle Rim, a 156-unit community located in Redmond, Washington for $18.6 million.

3)In July, the Company acquired 101 San Fernando, a 323-unit community with 9,200 square feet of retail located in downtown San Jose, California for $64.1 million.

4)In July, the Company acquired The Commons, a 264-unit community located in Campbell, California for $42.5 million and expects to renovate parts of the property.

5)In September, the Company acquired Bella Villagio, a 231-unit community located in San Jose, California for $54.0 million.  Each unit features granite countertops, maple cabinetry, a full-sized washer and dryer, and nine foot ceilings.

6)In September, the Company acquired Muse, a 152-unit community under development located in the North Hollywood Arts District of Los Angeles, California for $39.1 million.  Unit amenities at the property include stainless steel appliances, a full-sized washer and dryer and walk-in closets. The community also features a rooftop pool and spa as well as a fitness center and 8,200 square feet of ground-floor retail space.





7)In October, the Company purchased Santee Court, a 165-unit adaptive re-use community with 36,700 square feet of retail space located in downtown Los Angeles, California for $31.1 million.  Each unit was renovated in 2004 to include polished concrete floors, 14-foot ceilings, granite countertops and maple cabinetry.

8)In October, the Company acquired Courtyard off Main, a 110-unit community with 7,500 square feet of retail located in Bellevue, Washington for $30.0 million.  The property features spacious units which include a deck and fireplace, and a fitness center and recreation room.

9)In October, the Company acquired Allegro, a new 97-unit condominium development located in the Valley Village district of Los Angeles, California for $29.9 million that will be operated as an apartment community.  The majority of the construction of the community was complete upon acquistion and initial occupancy occurred in December 2010.  Each unit features upgraded finishes, a fireplace as well as a private patio or balcony.

10)In November, the Company acquired Corbella at Juanita Bay, a 169-unit community located in Kirkland, Washington and bordered by the Juanita Beach Park at Lake Washington for $23.4 million.  The property was built in 1978, and the units were renovated in 2006 to include new cabinets, appliances, lighting, a full-sized washer and dryer, and a deck or patio.

11)In December, the Company acquired Anavia, a new 250-unit condominium property that is operated as an apartment community located in Anaheim, California.  Each unit features granite countertops, cherry wood cabinetry, nine-foot ceilings, a walk-in closet and a full size washer and dryer.

12)In December, the Company acquired 416 on Broadway, a new 115-unit condominium property that is operated as an apartment community with 8,000 square feet of retail located in Glendale, California for $43.0 million.  Each unit features granite countertops, stainless steel appliances, nine and ten foot ceilings and a washer and dryer.



Dispositions of Real Estate



As part of its strategic plan to own quality real estate in supply-constrained markets, the Company continually evaluates all the communities and sells those which no longer meet its strategic criteria.  The Company may use the capital generated from the dispositions to invest in higher-return communities or other real estate investments, repurchase the Company's common stock, or repay debts.  The Company believes that the sale of these communities will not have a material impact on its future results of operations or cash flows nor will their sale materially affect its ongoing operations. Generally, the Company seeks to have any impact of earnings dilution resulting from these dispositions offset by the positive impact of its acquisitions, development and redevelopment activities.



In 2010, the Company sold no apartment communities.



Marketable Securities



In February and October 2010, the Company purchased interests in mortgages secured by apartments for $16.9 and $23.0 million, respectively, which are estimated to yield an 11.0% and 10.4% return, respectively, over the expected 10-year duration of the loan portfolios.



During the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company sold $99.6 million of marketable securities for a gain of $12.4 million.



Development Pipeline



The Company defines development activities as new communities that are in various stages of active development, or the community is in lease-up and phases of the project are not completed.  As of December 31, 2010, the Company had two development projects comprised of 436 units for an estimated cost of $170.9 million, of which $53.6 million remains to be expended.





The following table sets forth information regarding the Company's consolidated development pipeline:



As of 12/31/10 ($ in millions)Development PipelineLocationUnitsIncurred Project CostEstimated Remaining CostEstimated Project Cost(1)Projected StabilizationDevelopment ProjectsMuseNorth Hollywood, CA152$40.0$5.8$45.8Sep-11ViaSunnyvale, CA28477.347.8125.1Sep-12436117.353.6170.9Predevelopment projectsvarious1,12682.0-82.0-Land held for future development or salevarious25118.2-18.2-Development Pipeline1,813$217.5$53.6$271.1



(1)Includes incurred costs and estimated costs to complete these development projects.



The Company defines the predevelopment pipeline as proposed communities in negotiation or in the entitlement process with a high likelihood of becoming entitled development projects.  As of December 31, 2010, the Company had three development projects aggregating 1,126 units that were classified as predevelopment projects.  The estimated total cost of the predevelopment pipeline at December 31, 2010 was $82.0 million.   The Company may also acquire land for future development purposes or sale.   The Company had incurred $18.2 million in costs related to land held for future development or sale aggregating 251 units as of December 31, 2010.



Redevelopment Pipeline



The Company defines redevelopment communities as existing properties owned or recently acquired, which have been targeted for additional investment by the Company with the expectation of increased financial returns through property improvement.  During redevelopment, apartment units may not be available for rent and, as a result, may have less than stabilized operations.  As of December 31, 2010, the Company had ownership interests in four redevelopment communities aggregating 1,032 apartment units with estimated redevelopment costs of $64.2 million, of which approximately $31.8 million remains to be expended.



Mortgage Debt Transactions



During 2010, the Company paid-off mortgage loans totaling $242.2 million with an average interest rate of 7.3%, and obtained fixed rate secured mortgage loans totaling $440.6 million for an average interest rate of 4.9%.  In conjunction with obtaining the new mortgage loans the Company settled $355.0 million of forward-starting swap contracts which increased the average effective interest rate of the new mortgage loans to 6.4%.



Lines of Credit



In the fourth quarter, the Company amended the borrowing capacity of the $200 million unsecured line of credit facility to $275 million with an accordion option to $350 million and adjusted the interest rate from LIBOR + 3.0% to LIBOR + 2.4%.  This facility matures in December 2011 with two one-year extensions, exercisable by the Company.



Equity and Noncontrolling Interest Transactions



During 2010, the Company issued 2.4 million shares of common stock at an average share price of $108.39 for $251.4 million, net of fees and commissions.  The Company used the net proceeds from the stock offerings to pay down debt, fund redevelopment and development pipelines, fund acquisitions, and for general corporate purposes.





ESSEX APARTMENT VALUE FUND II



Essex Apartment Value Fund II, L.P. ("Fund II") is an investment fund formed by the Company to add value through rental growth and asset appreciation, utilizing the Company's development, redevelopment, and property and asset management capabilities.





Fund II has eight institutional investors, and the Company, with combined partner equity contributions of $265.9 million.  The Company contributed $75.0 million to Fund II, which represents a 28.2% interest as general partner and limited partner, and the Company uses the equity method of accounting for its investment in Fund II.  Fund II utilized leverage equal to approximately 55% upon the initial acquisition of the underlying real estate.  Fund II invested in apartment communities in the Company's targeted West Coast markets and, as of December 31, 2010, owned fourteen apartment communities.  The Company records revenue for its asset management, property management, development and redevelopment services when earned, and promote income when realized if Fund II exceeds certain financial return benc
hmarks.



OFFICES AND EMPLOYEES



The Company is headquartered in Palo Alto, California, and has regional offices in Woodland Hills, California; Irvine, California; San Diego, California and Bellevue, Washington.  As of December 31, 2010, the Company had 1,039 employees.



INSURANCE



The Company carries comprehensive liability, fire, extended coverage and rental loss insurance for each of the communities.  Insured risks for comprehensive liabilities covers claims in excess of $25,000 per incident, and property casualty insurance covers losses in excess of a $5.0 million deductible per incident. There are, however, certain types of extraordinary losses, such as, for example, losses from terrorism and earthquakes, for which the Company does not have insurance.  Substantially all of the communities are located in areas that are subject to earthquakes.



The Company believes it has a proactive approach to its potential earthquake losses.  The Company utilizes third-party seismic consultants for its acquisitions and may perform seismic upgrades to those acquisitions that are determined to have a higher level of potential loss from an earthquake.  The Company utilizes third-party loss models to help to determine its exposure.  The majority of the communities are lower density garden-style apartments which may be less susceptible to material earthquake damage.  The Company will continue to monitor third-party earthquake insurance pricing and conditions and may consider obtaining third-party coverage if it deems it cost effective.



Although the Company may carry insurance for potential losses associated with its communities, employees, residents, and compliance with applicable laws, it may still incur losses due to uninsured risks, deductibles, co-payments or losses in excess of applicable insurance coverage and those losses may be material.



COMPETITION



There are numerous housing alternatives that compete with the Company's communities in attracting residents.  These include other apartment communities, and single-family homes.  The communities also compete for residents with new and existing condominiums.  If the demand for the Company's communities is reduced or if competitors develop and/or acquire competing housing on a more cost-effective basis, rental rates and occupancy may drop which may have a material adverse affect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.



The Company faces competition from other real estate investment trusts, businesses and other entities in the acquisition, development and operation of apartment communities.  Some competitors are larger and have greater financial resources than the Company.  This competition may result in increased costs of apartment communities the Company acquires and or develops.





WORKING CAPITAL



The Company believes that cash flows generated by its operations, existing cash and marketable securities balances, availability under existing lines of credit, access to capital markets and the ability to generate cash from the disposition of real estate are sufficient to meet all of its reasonably anticipated cash needs during 2011.  The timing, source and amounts of cash flows provided by financing activities and used in investing activities are sensitive to changes in interest rates and other fluctuations in the capital markets environment, which can affect its plans for acquisitions, dispositions, development and redevelopment activities.



ENVIRONMENTAL CONSIDERATIONS



See the discussion under the caption, "The Company's Portfolio may have unknown environmental liabilities" in Item 1A, Risk Factors, for information concerning the potential effect of environmental regulations on its operations.



OTHER MATTERS



Certain Policies of the Company



The Company intends to continue to operate in a manner that will not subject it to regulation under the Investment Company Act of 1940. The Company has in the past five years and may in the future (i) issue securities senior to its common stock, (ii) fund acquisition activities with borrowings under its line of credit and (iii) offer shares of common stock and/or units of limited partnership interest in the Operating Partnership or affiliated partnerships as partial consideration for property acquisitions. The Company from time to time acquires partnership interests in partnerships and joint ventures, either directly or indirectly through subsidiaries of the Company, when such entities' underlying assets are real estate.



The Company invests primarily in apartment communities that are located in predominantly coastal markets within Southern California, the San Francisco Bay Area, and the Seattle metropolitan area. The Company currently intends to continue to invest in apartment communities in such regions.  However, these practices may be reviewed and modified periodically by management.



