ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS

You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information contained in this report and other filings that we
make from time to time with the SEC, including our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial
condition, results of operations or liquidity. In addition, the risks described below are not the only risks we face. Our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity could also
be adversely affected by additional factors that apply to all companies generally, as well as other risks that are not currently known to us or that we currently view to be immaterial. While we
attempt to mitigate known risks to the extent we believe to be practicable and reasonable, we can provide no assurance, and we make no representation, that our mitigation efforts will be successful.

Current economic conditions and other economic factors may adversely affect our financial performance and other aspects of our business.

In
addition, many of the factors discussed above, along with current global economic conditions and uncertainties, the potential for additional failures or realignments of financial
institutions, and the related impact on available credit may affect us and our suppliers and other business partners, landlords and service providers in an adverse manner including, but not limited
to, reducing access to liquid funds or credit, increasing the cost of credit, limiting our ability to manage interest rate risk, increasing the risk of bankruptcy of our suppliers, landlords or
counterparties to, or other financial institutions involved in, our credit facilities and our derivative and other contracts, increasing the cost of goods to us, and other adverse consequences which
we are unable to fully anticipate or control.

Our plans depend significantly on initiatives designed to increase sales and improve the efficiencies, costs and effectiveness of our operations, and failure to achieve or
sustain these plans could affect our performance adversely.

We have initiatives (such as those relating to marketing, merchandising, promotions, sourcing, shrink, private brand, store operations
and real estate) in various stages of testing, evaluation, and implementation, upon which we expect to rely to continue to improve our results of operations and financial condition and to achieve our
financial plans. These initiatives are inherently risky and uncertain, even when tested successfully, in their application to our business in general. It is possible








that
successful testing can result partially from resources and attention that cannot be duplicated in broader implementation, particularly in light of the diverse geographic locations of our stores
and the fact that our field management is so decentralized. General implementation also may be negatively affected by other risk factors described herein. Successful systemwide implementation relies
on consistency of training, stability of workforce, ease of execution, and the absence of offsetting factors that can influence results adversely. Failure to achieve successful implementation of our
initiatives or the cost of these initiatives exceeding management's estimates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.

In
addition, the success of our merchandising initiatives, particularly those with respect to non-consumable merchandise, depends in part upon our ability to predict
consistently and successfully the products our customers will demand and to identify and timely respond to evolving trends in demographics and consumer preferences, expectations and needs. If we are
unable to select products that are attractive to customers, to obtain such products at costs that allow us to sell them at a profit, or to effectively market such products, our sales, market share and
profitability could be adversely affected. If our merchandising efforts in the non-consumables area are unsuccessful, we could be further adversely affected by our inability to offset the
lower margins associated with our consumables business.

We face intense competition that could limit our growth opportunities and adversely impact our financial performance.

Competition
for customers has intensified in recent years as larger competitors have moved into, or increased their presence in, our geographic markets. In addition, some of our large
box competitors are or may be developing small box formats which may produce more competition. We remain vulnerable to the marketing power and high level of consumer recognition of these larger
competitors and to the risk that these competitors or others could venture into our industry in a significant way. Generally, we expect an increase in competition.

Our private brands may not achieve or maintain broad market acceptance and increase the risks we face.

We have substantially increased the number of our private brand items, and the program is a sizable part of our future growth plans. We
believe that our success in gaining and maintaining broad market acceptance of our private brands depends on many factors, including pricing, our costs, quality and customer perception. We may not
achieve or maintain our expected sales for our private brands.








As
a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.

A significant disruption to our distribution network or to the timely receipt of inventory could adversely impact sales or increase our transportation costs, which would
decrease our profits.

We rely on our distribution and transportation network to provide goods to our stores in a timely and cost-effective manner
through deliveries to our distribution centers from vendors and then from the distribution centers or direct ship vendors to our stores by various means of transportation, including shipments by sea
and truck. Any disruption, unanticipated expense or operational failure related to this process could affect store operations negatively. For example, unexpected delivery delays or increases in
transportation costs (including through increased fuel costs or a decrease in transportation capacity for overseas shipments) could significantly decrease our ability to make sales and earn profits.
In addition, labor shortages or work stoppages in the transportation industry or long-term disruptions to the national and international transportation infrastructure that lead to delays
or interruptions of deliveries could negatively affect our business.

We
maintain a network of distribution facilities and have plans to build new facilities to support our growth objectives. Delays in opening distribution centers could adversely affect
our future operations by slowing store growth, which may in turn reduce revenue growth. In addition, distribution-related construction or expansion projects entail risks which could cause delays and
cost overruns, such as: shortages of materials; shortages of skilled labor or work stoppages; unforeseen construction, scheduling, engineering, environmental or geological problems; weather
interference; fires or other casualty losses; and unanticipated cost increases. The completion date and ultimate cost of future projects could differ significantly from initial expectations due to
construction-related or other reasons. We cannot guarantee that any project will be completed on time or within established budgets.

Rising fuel costs could materially adversely affect our business.

Fuel prices have risen considerably and are significantly influenced by international, political and economic circumstances. These
increases pose a challenge to our continued priority of improving our gross profit rate. If such increased prices remain in effect, or if further price increases were to arise for any reason,
including fuel supply shortages or unusual price volatility, the resulting higher fuel prices could materially increase our transportation costs, adversely affecting our gross profit and results of
operations. In addition, competitive pressures in our industry may have the effect of inhibiting our ability to reflect these increased costs in the prices of our products. We will be diligent in our
efforts to keep product costs as low as possible in the face of these increases while still working to optimize gross profit and meet the needs of our customers.

Risks associated with or faced by the domestic and foreign suppliers from whom our products are sourced could adversely affect our financial performance.

The products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers. In fact, our largest supplier accounted
for 8% of our purchases in 2011, and our next largest supplier accounted for approximately 7% of such purchases. We have not experienced any difficulty in obtaining sufficient quantities of core
merchandise and believe that, if one or more of our current sources of supply became unavailable, we would generally be able to obtain alternative sources without experiencing a substantial disruption
of our business. However, such alternative sources could increase our merchandise costs and reduce the quality of our merchandise, and an inability to obtain alternative sources could adversely affect
our sales.

We
directly imported approximately 8% of our purchases (measured at cost) in 2011, but many of our domestic vendors directly import their products or components of their products.
Changes to the








Product liability and food safety claims could adversely affect our business, reputation and financial performance.

We are subject to governmental regulations, procedures and requirements. A significant change in, or noncompliance with, these regulations could have a material adverse
effect on our financial performance.

Our business is subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations. We routinely incur costs in complying with these
regulations. New laws or regulations, particularly those dealing with healthcare reform, product safety, and labor and employment, among others, or changes in existing laws and regulations,
particularly those governing the sale of products, may result in significant added expenses or may require extensive system and operating changes that may be difficult to implement and/or could
materially increase our cost of doing business. In addition, such changes or new laws may require the write off and disposal of existing product inventory, resulting in significant adverse financial
impact to us. Untimely compliance or noncompliance with applicable
regulations or untimely or incomplete execution of a required product recall can result in the imposition of penalties, including loss of licenses or significant fines or monetary penalties, in
addition to reputational damage.








Litigation may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.

If we cannot open new stores profitably and on schedule, our planned future growth will be impeded, which would adversely affect sales.

Our ability to open profitable new stores is a key component of our planned future growth. Our ability to timely open such stores and
to expand into additional market areas depends in part on the following factors: the availability of attractive store locations; the absence of occupancy delays; the ability to negotiate acceptable
lease and development terms; the ability to hire and train new personnel, especially store managers, in a cost effective manner; the ability to identify customer demand in different geographic areas;
general economic conditions; and the availability of sufficient funds for expansion. Many of these factors affect our ability to successfully relocate stores as well, and many of them are beyond our
control. In addition, tighter lending practices may make financing more challenging for our real estate developers which could potentially impact the timing of our store openings and
build-to-suit program.

Delays
or failures in opening new stores, or achieving lower than expected sales in new stores, or drawing a greater than expected proportion of sales in new stores away from existing
stores, could materially adversely affect our growth and/or profitability. In addition, we may not anticipate all of the challenges imposed by the expansion of our operations and, as a result, may not
meet our targets for opening new stores, remodeling or relocating stores or expanding profitably.

Some
of our new stores may be located in areas where we have little or no meaningful experience or brand recognition. Those markets may have different competitive conditions, market
conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns than our existing markets, which may cause our new stores to be less successful than stores in our existing markets. In addition, our
alternative format stores, such as our Dollar General Market concept, have significantly higher capital costs than our traditional Dollar General stores, and, as a result, may increase our financial
risk if they do not perform as expected.

Many
of our new stores will be located in areas where we have existing units. Although we have experience in these markets, increasing the number of locations in these markets may result
in inadvertent over-saturation of markets and temporarily or permanently divert customers and sales from our existing stores, thereby adversely affecting our overall financial performance.








Natural disasters (whether or not caused by climate change), unusual weather conditions, pandemic outbreaks, terrorist acts, and global political events could cause
permanent or temporary distribution center or store closures, impair our ability to purchase, receive or replenish inventory, or decrease customer traffic, all of which could result in lost sales and
otherwise adversely affect our financial performance.

Material damage or interruptions to our information systems as a result of external factors, staffing shortages and unanticipated challenges or difficulties in updating our
existing technology or developing or implementing new technology could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations.

We depend on a variety of information technology systems for the efficient functioning of our business. Such systems are subject to
damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches and natural disasters. Damage or interruption to these systems may require a
significant investment to fix or replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations in the interim. Any material interruptions may have a material adverse effect on our business or
results of operations.

We
also rely heavily on our information technology staff. Failure to meet these staffing needs may negatively affect our ability to fulfill our technology initiatives while continuing to
provide maintenance on existing systems. We rely on certain vendors to maintain and periodically upgrade many of these systems so that they can continue to support our business. The software programs
supporting many of our systems were licensed to us by independent software developers. The inability of these developers or us to continue to maintain and upgrade these information systems and
software programs would disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations if we were unable to convert to alternate systems in an efficient and timely manner. In addition, costs and potential
problems and interruptions associated with the implementation of new or upgraded systems and technology or with maintenance or adequate support of existing systems could also disrupt or reduce the
efficiency of our operations.

Failure to attract and retain qualified employees, particularly field, store and distribution center managers, and to control labor costs, as well as other labor issues,
could adversely affect our financial performance.

Our future growth and performance depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified employees, many of whom are in
positions with historically high rates of turnover such as field managers and distribution center managers. Our ability to meet our labor needs, while controlling our labor costs, is subject to many
external factors, including competition for and availability of qualified personnel in a given market, unemployment levels within those markets, prevailing wage rates,








minimum
wage laws, health and other insurance costs, and changes in employment and labor laws (including changes in the process for our employees to join a union) or other workplace regulation
(including changes in entitlement programs such as health insurance and paid leave programs). To the extent a significant portion of our employee base unionizes, or attempts to unionize, our labor
costs could increase. In addition, we are evaluating the potential future impact of recently enacted comprehensive healthcare reform legislation, which will likely cause our healthcare costs to
increase. While the significant costs of the healthcare reform legislation will occur after 2013, if at all, due to provisions of the legislation being phased in over time, changes to our healthcare
costs structure could have a significant negative effect on our business. Our ability to pass along labor costs to our customers is constrained by our low price model.

Our profitability may be negatively affected by inventory shrinkage.

We are subject to the risk of inventory loss and theft. We experience significant inventory shrinkage, and we cannot assure you that
incidences of inventory loss and theft will decrease in the future or that the measures we are taking will effectively reduce the problem of inventory shrinkage. Although some level of inventory
shrinkage is an unavoidable cost of doing business, if we were to experience higher rates of inventory shrinkage or incur increased security costs to combat inventory theft, our financial condition
could be affected adversely.

Our cash flows from operations may be negatively affected if we are not successful in managing our inventory balances.

Our inventory balance represented approximately 49% of our total assets exclusive of goodwill and other intangible assets as of
February 3, 2012. Efficient inventory management is a key component of our business success and profitability. To be successful, we must maintain sufficient inventory levels to meet our
customers' demands without allowing those levels to increase to such an extent that the costs to store and hold the goods unduly impacts our financial results. If our buying decisions do not
accurately predict customer trends or purchasing actions, we may have to take unanticipated markdowns to dispose of the excess inventory, which also can adversely impact our financial results. We
continue to focus on ways to reduce these risks, but we cannot assure you that we will be successful in our inventory management. If we are not successful in managing our inventory balances, our cash
flows from operations may be negatively affected.

Because our business is seasonal to a certain extent, with the highest volume of net sales during the fourth quarter, adverse events during the fourth quarter could
materially affect our financial statements as a whole.

We generally recognize our highest volume of net sales during the Christmas selling season, which occurs in the fourth quarter of our
fiscal year. In anticipation of this holiday, we purchase substantial amounts of seasonal inventory and hire many temporary employees.
An excess of seasonal merchandise inventory could result if our net sales during the Christmas selling season were to fall below either seasonal norms or expectations. If our fourth quarter sales
results were substantially below expectations, our financial performance and operating results could be adversely affected by unanticipated markdowns, especially in seasonal merchandise. Lower than
anticipated sales in the Christmas selling season would also negatively affect our ability to absorb the increased seasonal labor costs.

Our current insurance program may expose us to unexpected costs and negatively affect our financial performance.

Our insurance coverage reflects deductibles, self-insured retentions, limits of liability and similar provisions that we
believe are prudent based on the dispersion of our operations. However, there are types of losses we may incur but against which we cannot be insured or which we believe are not








If we fail to protect our brand name, competitors may adopt tradenames that dilute the value of our brand name.

We may be unable or unwilling to strictly enforce our trademarks in each jurisdiction in which we do business. Also, we may not always
be able to successfully enforce our trademarks against competitors, or against challenges by others. Our failure to successfully protect our trademarks could diminish the value and efficacy of our
brand recognition, and could cause customer confusion, which could, in turn, adversely affect our sales and profitability.

Our success depends on our executive officers and other key personnel. If we lose key personnel or are unable to hire additional qualified personnel, our business may be
harmed.

Our future success depends to a significant degree on the skills, experience and efforts of our executive officers and other key
personnel. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers, particularly Richard W. Dreiling, our Chief Executive Officer, could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our future
success will also depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel and a failure to attract and retain new qualified personnel could have an adverse effect on our operations. We do not
currently maintain key person life insurance policies with respect to our executive officers or key personnel.

We face risks related to protection of customers' credit and debit card data and private data relating to us or our customers or employees.

In connection with credit card sales, we transmit confidential credit and debit card information. We also have access to, collect or
maintain private or confidential information regarding our customers and employees, as well as our business. We have procedures and technology in place to safeguard our customers' debit and credit
card information, our employees' private data, and our confidential business information. However, third parties may have the technology or know-how to breach the security of this
information, and our security measures and those of our technology vendors may not effectively prohibit others from obtaining improper access to this information. A security breach of any kind could
expose us to risks of data loss, litigation, government enforcement actions and costly response measures, and could seriously disrupt our operations. Any resulting negative publicity could
significantly harm our reputation which could cause us to lose market share and have an adverse effect on our financial results.








While we have reduced our debt levels since 2007, we continue to have substantial debt that will need to be repaid or refinanced at or prior to applicable maturity dates
which could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations and limit our ability to pursue our growth strategy or other opportunities or to react to changes in the
economy or our industry.

At February 3, 2012, we had total outstanding debt (including the current portion of long-term obligations) of
$2.618 billion, including a $1.964 billion senior secured term loan facility which matures on July 6, 2014, $450.7 million aggregate principal amount of 11.875% / 12.625%
senior subordinated toggle notes due 2017, and borrowings of $184.7 million under our senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility. We also had an additional $807.9 million
available for borrowing under the revolving credit facility, which was scheduled to mature July 6, 2013, but was amended on March 15, 2012 to increase the maximum borrowing to
$1.2 billion and extend the maturity date to July 6, 2014. This level of debt and our ability to repay or refinance this debt prior to maturity could have important negative consequences
to our business, including:

•increasing our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions because our debt payment obligations may limit
our ability to use our cash to respond to or defend against changes in the industry or the economy;•requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest
on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities or pay dividends;•limiting our ability to pursue our growth strategy;•placing us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less highly leveraged and may be better able to use their
cash flow to fund competitive responses to changing industry, market or economic conditions;•limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements,
acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and•increasing the difficulty of our ability to make payments on our outstanding debt.

Our variable rate debt exposes us to interest rate risk which could adversely affect our cash flow.

The borrowings under the term loan facility and the senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility comprise our credit facilities
and bear interest at variable rates. Other debt we incur also could be variable rate debt. If market interest rates increase, variable rate debt will create higher debt service requirements, which
could adversely affect our cash flow. While we have entered and may in the future enter into agreements limiting our exposure to higher interest rates, any such agreements may not offer complete
protection from this risk.

Our debt agreements contain restrictions that could limit our flexibility in operating our business.

Our credit facilities and the indentures governing our notes contain various covenants that could limit our ability to engage in
specified types of transactions. These covenants limit our and our restricted subsidiaries' ability to, among other things:

•incur additional indebtedness, issue disqualified stock or issue certain preferred stock;•pay dividends and make certain distributions, investments and other restricted payments;•create certain liens or encumbrances;•sell assets;•enter into transactions with our affiliates;








•allow payments to us by our restricted subsidiaries;•merge, consolidate, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and•designate our subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries.

A
breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the agreement governing such indebtedness. Upon our failure to maintain compliance with these covenants, the lenders
could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit thereunder. If the lenders under such indebtedness
accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient assets to repay those borrowings, as well as our other indebtedness, including our outstanding notes. We have
pledged a significant portion of our assets as collateral under our credit facilities. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under our credit facilities could proceed against the
collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. Additional borrowings under the senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility will, if excess availability under that facility is less
than a certain amount, be subject to the satisfaction of a specified financial ratio. Accordingly, our ability to access the full availability under our
senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility may be constrained. Our ability to meet this financial ratio can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will
meet this ratio, if applicable, and other covenants.

New accounting guidance or changes in the interpretation or application of existing accounting guidance could adversely affect our financial performance.

The implementation of proposed new accounting standards may require extensive systems, internal process and other changes that could
increase our operating costs, and may also result in changes to our financial statements. In particular, the implementation of expected future accounting standards related to leases, as currently
being contemplated by the convergence project between the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") and the International Accounting Standards Board ("IASB"), as well as the possible adoption of
international financial reporting standards by U.S. registrants, could require us to make significant changes to our lease management, fixed asset, and other accounting systems, and in all likelihood
would result in changes to our financial statements.

U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are
relevant to our business involve many subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by our management. Changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates
or judgments by our management could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance. The outcome of such changes could include litigation or regulatory actions which could have an
adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.

Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P. ("KKR"), certain affiliates of Goldman, Sachs & Co. (the "GS Investors"), and other equity
co-investors (collectively, the "Investors") have significant influence over us, including in connection with decisions that require the approval of shareholders, which could limit your
ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including a change of control.

Through their investment in Buck Holdings, L.P., the Investors hold a significant interest in our outstanding common stock. As a
result, the Investors potentially have the ability to influence the outcome of matters that require a vote of our shareholders, including election of our Board of Directors and other corporate
transactions, regardless of whether others believe that the transaction is in our best interests. In addition, pursuant to a shareholders' agreement that we entered into with Buck
Holdings, L.P., KKR and the GS Investors, KKR has a consent right over certain significant corporate actions and KKR and the GS Investors have certain rights to appoint directors to our Board
and its committees for so long as Buck Holdings, L.P. continues to hold a specified amount of our common stock.








The
Investors are also in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us.
The Investors may also pursue acquisition opportunities that are complementary to our business, and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. So long as the Investors,
or other funds controlled by or associated with the Investors, continue to indirectly own a significant amount of our outstanding common stock, the Investors will continue to be able to strongly
influence or effectively control our decisions. The concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our company, could deprive shareholders
of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company and might ultimately affect the market price of our common stock.

If we, the Investors or other significant shareholders sell a large number of shares of our common stock, the market price of our common stock could decline.

The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of common stock in the market or
the perception that such sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to issue equity securities in the future at a time and
at a price that we deem appropriate. As of February 3, 2012, we had approximately 338.1 million shares of common stock outstanding, of which approximately 46% were freely tradable on the
New York Stock Exchange.

Pursuant
to shareholders agreements, we have granted the Investors the right to cause us, in certain instances, at our expense, to file registration statements under the Securities Act
of 1933, as amended, covering resales of our common stock held by them or to piggyback on a registration statement in certain circumstances. Certain members of management hold similar piggyback
registration rights. As of February 3, 2012, these shares collectively represented approximately 54% of our outstanding common stock. To the extent that such registration rights are exercised,
the resulting sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock into the market could cause the market price of our common
stock to decline. These shares also may be sold pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act, depending on their holding period and subject to restrictions in the case of shares held by
persons deemed to be our affiliates.

