10-K


d10k.htm

THE LIMITED, INC. FORM 10-K

The Limited, Inc. Form 10-k

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D. C. 20549

FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

[X]

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF

1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]

For the fiscal year ended

February 3, 2001

OR

[_]

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT

OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]

For the transition period from _______________ to _______________

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None.

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months and (2) has been subject to the filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes

X

No ___

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

X

Aggregate market value of the registrant’s Common Stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of March 30, 2001: $5,387,986,739.

Number of shares outstanding of the registrant’s Common Stock as of March 30, 2001: 426,401,557.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:

Portions of the registrant’s annual report to shareholders for the fiscal year ended February 3, 2001 are incorporated by reference into Part I, Part II and Part IV, and portions of the registrant’s proxy statement for the
Annual Meeting of Shareholders scheduled for May 21, 2001 are incorporated by reference into Part III.

SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT UNDER THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995:

The Company cautions that any forward-looking statements (as such term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (“Report”) or made by management of
the Company involve risks and uncertainties and are subject to change based on various important factors, many of which may be beyond the Company's control. Accordingly, the Company's future performance and financial results may differ materially
from those expressed or implied in any such forward-looking statements. Words such as “estimate,” “project,” “plan,” “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend” and similar
expressions may identify forward-looking statements. The following factors, among others, in some cases have affected and in the future could affect the Company’s financial performance and actual results and could cause actual results for 2001
and beyond to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements included in this Report or otherwise made by management: changes in consumer spending patterns, consumer preferences and overall economic conditions;
the impact of competition and pricing; changes in weather patterns; political stability; postal rate increases and charges; paper and printing costs; risks associated with the seasonality of the retail industry; risks related to consumer acceptance
of the Company’s products and the ability to develop new merchandise; the ability to retain, hire and train key personnel; risks associated with the possible inability of the Company’s manufacturers to deliver products in a timely manner;
risks associated with relying on foreign sources of production and availability of suitable store locations on appropriate terms.

Refer to Exhibit 99.1 for cautionary statements relating to forward-looking information.

The Company does not undertake to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that any projected results expressed or implied therein will not be realized.

PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS.

G

ENERAL.

The Limited, Inc., a Delaware corporation (including its subsidiaries, the "Company"), sells women’s and men’s apparel, women’s intimate apparel and personal care products under various trade names through its
specialty retail stores and direct response (catalog and e-commerce) businesses. Merchandise is targeted to appeal to customers in various market segments that have distinctive consumer characteristics.

D

ESCRIPTION OF

O

PERATIONS

.

General

.

As of February 3, 2001, the Company conducted its business in two primary segments: (1) the apparel segment, which derives its revenues from the sale of women’s and men’s apparel; and (2) Intimate Brands, Inc. ("IBI") (a
corporation in which the Company holds an 83.9% interest), which derives its revenues from the sale of women’s intimate and other apparel, personal care products and accessories.

On February 8, 2001, as part of its multiple-year strategy to create sustained growth of shareholder value, The Limited, Inc. announced its intent to pursue a strategic or financial buyer for Lane Bryant and the integration of
Structure into Express as Express Men’s. Lane Bryant and Structure are in the Company's apparel segment.


The following chart reflects the retail businesses and the number of stores in operation for each segment at February 3, 2001 and January 29, 2000.

The following table shows the changes in the number of retail stores operated by the Company for the past five fiscal years:

(a) Represents Cacique stores from the January 31, 1998 closure.

(b) Represents A&F stores from the May 19, 1998 split-off.

(c) Represents 18 stores from the third party purchase of a 60% majority interest in Galyan’s Trading Co. effective August 31, 1999 and 335 stores from the August 23, 1999 spin-off of Limited Too.

The Company also owns Mast Industries, Inc., a contract manufacturer and apparel importer.

During fiscal year 2000, the Company purchased merchandise from approximately 3,100 suppliers

and factories located throughout the world. In addition to purchases through Mast, the
Company purchases merchandise directly in foreign markets and in the domestic market, some of which is manufactured overseas. No more than 5% of goods purchased originated from any single manufacturer.


Most of the merchandise and related materials for the Company’s stores is shipped to the Company’s distribution centers in the Columbus, Ohio area. The Company uses common and contract carriers to distribute merchandise
and related materials to its stores. The Company’s businesses generally have dedicated distribution facilities and capabilities and no business receives priority over any other business.

The Company’s policy is to maintain sufficient quantities of inventory on hand in its retail stores and distribution centers so that it can offer customers an appropriate selection of current merchandise. The Company emphasizes
rapid turnover and takes markdowns as required to keep merchandise fresh and current with fashion trends.

The Company views the retail apparel market as having two principal selling seasons, spring and fall. As is generally the case in the retail apparel industry, the Company experiences its peak sales activity during the fall season.
This seasonal sales pattern results in increased inventory during the fall and Christmas holiday selling periods. During fiscal year 2000, the highest inventory level was $1.6 billion at November 2000 month-end and the lowest inventory level was
$1.1 billion at the February 2000 month-end.

Merchandise sales are paid for with cash, by personal check, and with credit cards issued by third parties or by the Company’s 31%-owned credit card processing venture, Alliance Data Systems.

The Company offers its customers a return policy stated as "No Sale is Ever Final." The Company believes that certain of its competitors offer similar service policies.

The following is a brief description of each of the Company’s operating businesses, including their respective target markets.

APPAREL BUSINESSES

Express

- is a leading specialty retailer of women’s sportswear and accessories. Express’ strategy is to offer new, international fashion to its base of young, style-driven women. Launched
in 1980, Express had net sales of $1.59 billion in 2000 and operated 667 stores in 48 states.

Lerner New York

- is a leading mall-based specialty retailer of women’s apparel. The business’s strategy is to offer competitively priced women’s fashion with its New York &
Company brand. Originally founded in 1918, Lerner New York was purchased by The Limited in 1985. Lerner New York had net sales of $1.03 billion in 2000 and operated 560 stores in 44 states.

Lane Bryant

-

is the leading specialty store retailer of women’s apparel, offering knit tops, sweaters, pants, jeans and intimate apparel for women size 14-plus.
Originally founded in 1900, Lane Bryant was acquired by The Limited in 1982. The business had net sales of $930 million in 2000 and operated 653 stores in 46 states.

Limited Stores

-

is a mall-based specialty store retailer. The business’s strategy is to focus on sophisticated sportswear for modern American women. Founded in
1963, Limited Stores had net sales of $673 million in 2000 and operated 389 stores in 46 states.

Structure

-

is a leading specialty retailer of men’s clothing, offering classically-inspired sportswear with a rugged fashion appeal for men in their 20’s and
30’s. Structure had net sales of $569 million in 2000 and operated 469 stores in 43 states.


INTIMATE BRANDS

Victoria’s Secret Stores

- is the leading specialty retailer of women’s intimate apparel and related products. Victoria’s Secret Stores had net sales of $2.34 billion in 2000 and
operated 958 stores nationwide.

Victoria’s Secret Beauty

- is a leading specialty retailer of high quality beauty products. Victoria’s Secret Beauty had net sales of $534 million in 2000 and
operated 80 stand-alone stores, 400 side-by-side locations and niches within Victoria’s Secret lingerie stores. Victoria’s Secret Beauty stores and sales are consolidated within Victoria’s Secret Stores in the preceding paragraph and
in the 2000 Annual Report.

Victoria’s Secret Direct

- is a leading catalog and e-commerce retailer of intimate and other women’s apparel. Through its web site, www.VictoriasSecret.com,
certain of its products may be purchased worldwide. Victoria’s Secret Direct mailed approximately 368 million catalogs and had net sales of $962 million in 2000.

Bath & Body Works

- is the leading specialty retailer of personal care products. Launched in 1990, Bath & Body Works (including White Barn Candle Company) had net sales of $1.79 billion in
2000 and operated 1,432 stores nationwide.

OTHER

Henri Bendel

- operates a single specialty store in New York City which features fashions for sophisticated, higher-income women. The business had net sales of $39 million in 2000.

Additional information about the Company’s business, including its revenues and profits for the last three years and selling square footage, is set forth under the caption "Management’s Discussion and Analysis" of the 2000
Annual Report and is incorporated herein by reference. For the financial results of the Company’s reportable operating segments, see Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in the 2000 Annual Report, incorporated
herein by reference.

C

OMPETITION.

The sale of intimate and other apparel and personal care products through retail stores is a highly competitive business with numerous competitors, including individual and chain fashion specialty stores, department stores and
discount retailers. Brand image, marketing, fashion design, price, service, fashion selection and quality are the principal competitive factors in retail store sales. The Company’s direct response business competes with numerous national and
regional catalog and e-commerce merchandisers. Brand image, marketing, fashion design, price, service, quality, image presentation and fulfillment are the principal competitive factors in catalog and e-commerce sales.

The Company is unable to estimate the number of competitors or its relative competitive position due to the large number of companies selling apparel and personal care products through retail stores, catalogs and
e-commerce.

A

SSOCIATE

R

ELATIONS.

On February 3, 2001, the Company employed approximately 123,700 associates, 90,200 of whom were part-time. In addition, temporary associates are hired during peak periods, such as the holiday season.


ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.

The Company’s business is principally conducted from office, distribution and shipping facilities located in the Columbus, Ohio area. Additional facilities are located in New York City, New York; Andover, Massachusetts;
Kettering, Ohio; Rio Rancho, New Mexico; Hong Kong and London, England.

The distribution and shipping facilities owned by the Company consist of eight buildings located in the Columbus, Ohio area. Excluding office space, these buildings comprise approximately 6.1 million square feet.

Substantially all of the retail stores operated by the Company are located in leased facilities, primarily in shopping centers throughout the continental United States. The leases expire at various dates between 2000 and 2028 and
frequently have renewal options.

Typically, when space is leased for a retail store in a shopping center, all improvements, including interior walls, floors, ceilings, fixtures and decorations, are supplied by the tenant. In certain cases, the landlord of the
property may provide a construction allowance to fund all or a portion of the cost of improvements. The cost of improvements varies widely, depending on the size and location of the store. Rental terms for new locations usually include a fixed
minimum rent plus a percentage of sales in excess of a specified amount. Certain operating costs such as common area maintenance, utilities, insurance and taxes are typically paid by tenants.


ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

The Company is a defendant in a variety of lawsuits arising in the ordinary course of business.

On January 13, 1999, two complaints were filed against the Company and its subsidiary, Lane Bryant, Inc., as well as other defendants, including many national retailers. Both complaints relate to labor practices allegedly employed on
the island of Saipan, Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, by apparel manufacturers unrelated to the Company (some of which have sold goods to the Company) and seek injunctions, unspecified monetary damages, and other relief. One complaint,
on behalf of a class of unnamed garment workers, filed in the United States District Court for the Central District of California, Western Division, alleges violations of federal statutes, the United States Constitution, and international law. On
April 12, 1999, a motion to dismiss that complaint for failure to state a claim upon which relief can be granted was filed, and it remains pending. On September 29, 1999, the United States District Court for the Central District of California,
Western Division, transferred the case to the United States District Court for the District of Hawaii. A first amended complaint was filed on April 28, 2000, which added additional defendants but did not otherwise substantively alter either the
claims alleged or relief sought. On June 23, 2000, the United States District Court for the District of Hawaii transferred the case to the United States District Court for the District of the Northern Mariana Islands, and on July 7, 2000 denied
plaintiffs’ motion for reconsideration of the transfer order. Plaintiffs filed a Petition for a Writ of Mandamus challenging the transfer order and Motion for Emergency Stay which was denied by a panel of the U.S. 9

th

Circuit Court of Appeals on March 22, 2001. Plaintiffs have indicated an intention to seek a rehearing

en banc

. The second complaint, filed by a national labor union and other
organizations in the Superior Court of the State of California, San Francisco County, and which alleges unfair business practices under California law, remains pending.

In May and June 1999, purported shareholders of the Company filed three derivative actions in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware, naming as defendants the members of the Company’s board of directors and the Company,
as nominal defendant. The actions thereafter were consolidated. The operative complaint generally alleged that the rescission of the Contingent Stock Redemption Agreement previously entered into by the Company with Leslie H. Wexner and The Wexner
Children’s Trust (the "Contingent Stock Redemption Agreement") constituted a waste of corporate assets and a breach of the board members’ fiduciary duties, and that the issuer tender offer completed on June 3, 1999 was a "wasteful
transaction in its own right." On July 30, 1999, all defendants moved to dismiss the complaint, both on the ground that it failed to allege facts showing that demand on the board to institute such an action would be futile and for failure to state a
claim. Plaintiffs did not respond to that motion, but on February 16, 2000, plaintiffs filed a first amended consolidated derivative complaint (the "amended complaint"), which makes allegations similar to the first complaint concerning the
rescission of the Contingent Stock Redemption Agreement and the 1999 issuer tender offer and adds allegations apparently intended to show that certain directors were not disinterested in those decisions. Defendants moved to dismiss the amended
complaint on April 14, 2000. The motion has been fully briefed, oral argument was heard on March 28, 2001 and the motion is now under consideration by the Court.

Although it is not possible to predict with certainty the eventual outcome of any litigation, in the opinion of management, the foregoing proceedings are not expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial
position or results of operations.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

Not applicable.


SUPPLEMENTAL ITEM. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.

Set forth below is certain information regarding the executive officers of the Company.

Leslie H. Wexner, 63, has been Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company for more than five years and its President and Chief Executive Officer since he founded the Company in 1963.

V. Ann Hailey,

50, was appointed to the Board of Directors of the Company on March 1, 2001 and has been Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company since August
1997. Ms. Hailey was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for Pillsbury from August 1994 to August 1997.

Martin Trust, 66, has been a member of the Board of Directors of the Company and President and Chief Executive Officer of Mast Industries, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, for more than five years.

Leonard A. Schlesinger, 48, has been a member of the Board of Directors of the Company since 1996 and has been Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer since March 2001. Mr. Schlesinger was Executive Vice President,
Organization, Leadership and Human Resources of the Company from October 1999 until March 2001. Mr. Schlesinger was a Professor of Sociology and Public Policy and Senior Vice President for Development at Brown University from 1998 to 1999. He was
also Professor of Business Administration at Harvard Business School ("Harvard") from 1988 to 1998 and served as the Senior Associate Dean and Director of External Relations at Harvard from July 1994 until October 1995.

All of the above officers serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors of the Company.


PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.

Information regarding markets in which the Company’s common stock was traded during fiscal years 2000 and 1999, approximate number of holders of common stock, and quarterly cash dividend per share information of the
Company’s common stock for the fiscal years 2000 and 1999 is set forth under the caption "Market Price and Dividend Information" on page 16 of the 2000 Annual Report and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.

Selected financial data is set forth under the caption "Financial Summary" on page 6 of the 2000 Annual Report and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF

OPERATIONS.

Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is set forth under the caption

"Management’s    Discussion and Analysis" on pages 6 through 11 of the 2000 Annual
Report and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.

The information required by this item is set forth on pages 10 and 15 of the 2000 Annual Report and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company and subsidiaries, the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and the Report of Independent Accountants are set forth in the 2000 Annual Report and are incorporated herein by
reference.

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL

DISCLOSURE.

None.


PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.

Information regarding directors of the Company is set forth under the captions "ELECTION OF DIRECTORS - Nominees and directors", "- Information concerning the Board of Directors" , "- Committees of the Board of Directors" and "-
Security ownership of directors and management" on pages 4 through 9 of the Company’s proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 21, 2001 (the "Proxy Statement") and is incorporated herein by reference. Information
regarding compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is set forth under the caption "EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION - Section 16(a) beneficial ownership reporting compliance" on page 17 of the Proxy Statement and is
incorporated herein by reference. Information regarding executive officers is set forth herein under the caption "SUPPLEMENTAL ITEM. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT" in Part I.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.

Information regarding executive compensation is set forth under the caption "EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION" on pages 12 through 17 of the Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference. Such incorporation by reference shall not be
deemed to specifically incorporate by reference the information referred to in Item 402(a)(8) of Regulation S-K.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT.

Information regarding the security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management is set forth under the captions "ELECTION OF DIRECTORS - Security ownership of directors and management" on pages 8 and 9 of the Proxy Statement
and "SHARE OWNERSHIP OF PRINCIPAL STOCKHOLDERS" on page 22 of the Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.

Information regarding certain relationships and related transactions is set forth under the captions "ELECTION OF DIRECTORS - Nominees and directors" on pages 4 through 6 of the Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by
reference.


PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.





SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or l5(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Date: April 24, 2001

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated on January 26, 2001:


*The undersigned, by signing his name hereto, does hereby sign this report on behalf of each of the above-indicated directors of the registrant pursuant to powers of attorney executed by such directors.

By

/s/ V. Ann Hailey

V. Ann Hailey

Attorney-in-fact


SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF

THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

THE LIMITED, INC.

(exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

EXHIBITS

EXHIBIT INDEX