10-K


form10k2002.htm

LOWE'S COMPANIES, INC. FORM 10-K

-3-

Part I

Item 1 - Business

General

Lowe's Companies, Inc. (the Company or Lowe's) is the second
largest retailer of home improvement products in the world, with a specific
emphasis on retail do-it-yourself (DIY) and commercial business customers. Lowe's
specializes in offering products and services for home improvement, home decor,
home maintenance, home repair and remodeling and maintenance of commercial
buildings. As of January 31, 2003, Lowe's operated 854 stores in 44 states, with
approximately 94.7 million square feet of retail selling space.

Lowe's was incorporated in North Carolina in 1952 and has
been a publicly held company since 1961. Lowe's common stock is listed on the
New York Stock Exchange, with shares trading under the ticker symbol
"LOW." Lowe's general offices are located in Wilkesboro, North
Carolina.

Lowe's has one reportable industry segment - the operation
of home improvement retail stores. See Item 6 "Selected Financial
Data" for the historical data of revenues, profits and identifiable assets
of the Company.

Store Expansion

Lowe's is continuing to maintain an aggressive growth
strategy. Lowe's opening plans include two prototypes, a 116,000 square-foot
store for large markets and a 94,000 square-foot store used primarily to serve
smaller markets. Both prototypes include a lawn and garden center averaging an
additional 25,000 square feet. Lowe's 2003 expansion plan calls for opening
approximately 130 stores (including the relocation of approximately 5 smaller
format stores). The Company is focusing much of its future expansion on metro
markets with populations of 500,000 or more. Stores in these larger markets made
up approximately 64% of the total expansion in 2002 and will comprise a similar
percentage of growth in 2003. The following table illustrates the growth of the
Company over the last three years.

Customer Service

Lowe's serves both retail and commercial business customers.
Retail customers primarily consist of do-it-yourself homeowners, those

taking
advantage of our installed sales programs and others buying for personal and
family use. Commercial business customers include repair and re

modeling
contractors, electricians, landscapers, painters, plumbers and commercial and
residential building maintenance professionals. Each Lowe's store caters to
these customers by combining the merchandise, sales and service of: a home
fashions and interior design center; a lawn and garden center; an appliance
dealer; an outdoor equipment dealer; a grill and patio furniture store; a
hardware store; an air conditioning, heating, plumbing and electrical supply
center; and a building materials supplier.

Lowe's offers two proprietary credit cards - one for
individual retail customers and the other for commercial business customers.
Lowe's has an agreement with a financial institution and is offering a
co-branded Visa credit card to selected

customers through direct mail offers. Lowe's commercial
business customers can also make purchases on credit by using Lowe's in-house
accounts. In addition, Lowe's accepts Visa, MasterCard, Discover and American
Express credit cards.

-4-

Products

A typical Lowe's home improvement warehouse stocks more than
40,000 items, with hundreds of thousands of items available through our special
order system. Each store carries a wide selection of nationally advertised brand
name merchandise. The Company's merchandise selection supplies both the DIY
retail and commercial business customer with items needed to complete home
improvement, repair, maintenance or construction projects. See Note 14 on page
38 of the Annual Report to Security Holders for fiscal year ended January 31,
2003 for the table illustrating sales by product category for each of the last
three fiscal years.

Excluding special order vendors, the Company sources its
products from approximately 7,000 merchandise vendors worldwide, with no single
vendor accounting for more than 4% of total purchases. The Company is not
dependent upon any single vendor. To the extent possible, the Company utilizes
its Global Sourcing Division to purchase directly from foreign manufacturers and
avoid third party importers. Management believes that alternative and
competitive suppliers are available for virtually all its products, further
increasing opportunities for product quality and gross margins. Lowe's has
begun to cultivate and execute vendor alliance partnerships with key vendor
partners in an effort to enhance our market share where such partnerships are
advantageous to the customer, Lowe's and the vendors

.

Lowe's
is also concentrating on the electronic exchange of item and order information
with our vendors, which provides for data integrity and reduction of errors that
leads to fewer returns and order changes. This allows store employees to focus
on customer service and invest more time in selling rather than administrative
functions. It also allows rapid expansion of the Special Order item base to
expand product offerings.

In order to maintain appropriate inventory levels in stores
and to improve distribution efficiencies, the Company operates nine highly
automated regional distribution centers (RDC's). The current RDC's are
strategically located in North Carolina, Georgia, Indiana, Pennsylvania, Texas,
California, Ohio and Wyoming. Each Lowe's store is served by one of these RDC's.
The Company also operates nine smaller support facilities in order to distribute
merchandise that requires special handling due to size or type of packaging,
such as lumber, various imports and building materials. Approximately 50% of the
merchandise purchased by the Company is shipped through its distribution
facilities, while the remaining portion is shipped directly to stores from
vendors. Construction on an additional regional distribution center is scheduled
to begin in 2003 in Poinciana, FL. The Company also expects to open
approximately 3 to 5 additional flatbed distribution centers in 2003. These
facilities will handle lumber, boards, panel products and building materials.
Also, long-length items such as irrigation pipe, vinyl sidings and ladders will
be distributed through these facilities.

Marketing

The Company reaches target customers through a mixture of
television, radio, direct mail, newspaper, event sponsorships, Internet and
in-store programs. Each marketing initiative is based on understanding current
and prospective customers. The Company has a strategic alliance with the HGTV
network that allows it to utilize a substantial portion of the commercial
airtime in which only the Company's and its vendors' commercials are aired.
This is one of a half dozen media partnership programs which the Company employs
in an effort to build the image and equity of the Lowe's brand, while
complementing the core media and marketing programs. Additionally, the Company
hosts customer hospitality events through its Team 48 NASCAR sponsorship,
supports the wide-ranging activities of the Home Safety Council and utilizes its
proprietary credit programs to drive customer traffic and purchases.

In 2002, the Company continued to introduce or redefine
programs to respond to the changing needs and lifestyles of targeted customers.
Primary to this effort is the Company's initiative to serve commercial
business customers. The Company has responded to the special needs of this
customer group by carrying more professional brands, increasing in-stock
quantities for bigger jobs and testing various marketing approaches in an effort
to win the loyalty of commercial customers. The Company continues to emphasize
installed sales and currently has thirty-seven assortments available where
customers can have installation arranged through Lowe's stores. In addition,
kiosks are available in departments such as appliances, home decor/flooring, electrical/lighting,
millwork, hardware, seasonal, plumbing and tools for our customer's special
product ordering in addition to what is made available on Lowes.com. Some of
these kiosks are technology based and some are literature based, but all
facilitate the ability of the customer to special order to fit their home
improvement needs.

-5-

Competition

The home improvement retailing business is highly competitive.
The principal competitive factors are price, location, customer service, product
and brand selection and name recognition. The Company competes with a number of
traditional hardware, plumbing, electrical and home supply retailers, as well as
other chains of warehouse home improvement stores and lumber yards in most of
its market areas. In addition, the Company competes, with respect to some of its
products, with discount stores, mail order firms and warehouse clubs.

Lowe's is the second largest retailer of home improvement
products in the world. Due to the large number and variety of competitors,
management is unable to precisely measure the Company's market share in its
existing market areas. However, Lowe's defines the market segments that it
serves as DIY, appliances, lawn & garden, home decor, repair/remodeling,
specialty trade contractor and property management.

Information Systems

The Company is continuously assessing and upgrading its
information systems in an effort to support growth, to control costs and to
enable better decision-making. During the last six years, the Company has made a
substantial investment in developing and purchasing new computer systems. Lowe's
has a point of sale system, electronic bar code scanning system, various design
systems and dual UNIX Servers in each of its stores. Store information is
communicated to the support center's central computer via a terrestrial based
(frame relay) network with back up being provided by a satellite based wide area
network. These systems provide customer checkout with automated credit card
approval and also provide store-based perpetual inventory information. In
addition, the systems also provide labor planning and item movement experience.
These computers supply the general office functions with the information needed
to support the stores, including centralized inventory replenishment.

Employees

As of January 31, 2003, the Company employed approximately
123,000 full-time and 30,000 part-time employees, none of which are covered by
any collective bargaining agreements. Management considers its relations with
its employees to be good.

Available Information

The Company's Internet web-site address is:

www.lowes.com

.
The Company makes available free of charge through its web-site its annual
report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K
and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably
practicable after such documents are electronically filed with, or furnished to,
the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Item 2 - Properties

At January 31, 2003, the Company operated 854 stores with a
total of 94.7 million square feet of selling space. Lowe's currently has two
prototype stores, a 116,000 square-foot store for large markets and a 94,000
square-foot store used primarily to serve smaller markets. Both prototypes
include a lawn and garden center averaging an additional 25,000 square feet. Of
the total stores operating at January 31, 2003, approximately 74% of the
facilities are owned, with the remainder being leased. Approximately 45% of
these leases are capital leases. The Company also owns and operates nine
regional distribution centers and nine smaller support facilities, four of which
are reload centers for lumber and building commodities. The Company's general
offices are located in Wilkesboro, North Carolina and occupy several buildings.
In the third quarter

of fiscal 2003, the corporate offices are scheduled to be
expanded to include a new customer support center located in Mooresville, North
Carolina.

-6-

Item 3 - Legal Proceedings

The Company is a defendant in legal proceedings considered to
be in the normal course of business, none of which, singularly or collectively,
are considered material to the Company.

Item 4 - Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
Holders

Not applicable.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Pursuant to General Instruction G(3) of Form 10-K, the
following list is included as an unnumbered item in Part I of this Report in
lieu of being included in the Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be held on May 30, 2003.

The following is a list of names and ages of all of the
executive officers of the registrant indicating all positions and offices with
the registrant held by each such person and each person's principal occupations
or employment during the past five years.

Part II

Item 5 - Market for the Registrant's Common Stock and Related
Security Holder Matters

Lowe's common stock is traded on the New York Stock
Exchange, Inc. (NYSE). The ticker symbol for Lowe's is LOW. As of January 31,
2003, there were 25,405 holders of record of Lowe's common stock. The table,
"Lowe's Quarterly Stock Price Range and Cash Dividend Payment", on
page 40 of the Annual Report to Security Holders for fiscal year ended January
31, 2003 sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high and low sales prices
per share of the common stock as reported by the NYSE Composite Tape and the
dividends per share declared on the common stock during such periods.

Item 6 - Selected Financial Data

See page 41 of the Annual Report to Security Holders for the
fiscal year ended January 31, 2003.

Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations

See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations" on pages 20 through 24 and
"Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" on page 19 of the
Annual Report to Security Holders for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2003.

Item 7a - Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about
Market Risk

See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations - Market Risk" beginning on page 23
of the Annual Report to Security Holders for the fiscal year ended January 31,
2003.

Item 8 - Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

See the "Independent Auditors' Report" of Deloitte
& Touche LLP on page 18 and the financial statements and notes thereto on
pages 25 through 38, and the "Selected Quarterly Data" on page 41 of
the Annual Report to Security Holders for the fiscal year ended January 31,
2003.

Item 9 - Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None.

-9-

Item 10 - Policies on Business Conduct and Ethics

All employees of the Company, including its Chief
Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer are
required to abide by the Lowe's Companies, Inc. and Subsidiaries Code of
Business Conduct and Ethics (the Code). The Code is designed to insure that the
Company's business is conducted in a legal and ethical manner. The Code covers
all areas of professional conduct including compliance with laws and
regulations, conflicts of interest, fair dealing among customers and suppliers,
corporate opportunity, confidential information, insider trading, employee
relations and accounting complaints. A full text of our summary of the Code can
be found at

www.lowes.com

, under the
"Company Info." and "Lowe's Code of Business Ethics"
captions. If you would like to receive a free copy of the complete Code, please
contact Shareholder Services at 336-658-5239.

Part III

Item 10 - Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

See "Election of Directors", "Information
Concerning the Nominees," and "Information Concerning Continuing
Directors" included in the definitive Proxy Statement which will be filed
pursuant to regulation 14A, with the SEC within 120 days after the fiscal year
ended January 31, 2003.

Item 11 - Executive Compensation

See "Compensation of Executive Officers",
"Option/SAR Grants in Last Fiscal Year", "Aggregated Option/SAR
Exercises in Last Fiscal Year and Fiscal Year-end Option/SAR Values", and
"Long-term Incentive Plans - Awards in Last Fiscal Year" included in
the definitive Proxy Statement which will be filed pursuant to regulation 14A,
with the SEC within 120 days after the fiscal year ended January 31, 2003.
Information included under the captions "Report of the Compensation and
Organization Committee" and "Performance Graph" is not
incorporated by reference herein.

Item 12 - Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
Management and Related Stockholder Matters

Equity Compensation Plan Information.

The following table provides information about stock options
outstanding and shares available for future awards under all of Lowe's equity
compensation plans. The information is as of January 31, 2003.

(1) This column contains information regarding employee stock
options and deferred shares only; there are no warrants or stock appreciation
rights outstanding.

-10-

(2) This column does not include 19,647,633 and
2,500,000 shares available under the 401(k) retirement plan and Benefit
Restoration Plan, respectively, in accordance with SEC rules.

(3) Includes the following:

* 20,891,436, 2,059,958 and 1,398,360 shares, respectively,
available for grants under the Company's three stock incentive plans, referred
to as the "2001", "1997" and "1994" Incentive
Plans. Under these plans, incentive and non-qualified stock options may be
granted to key employees. No awards may be granted after 2011 under the 2001
plan, 2007 under the 1997 plan, and 2004 under the 1994 plan. Stock options
generally have terms of 7 years, normally vest evenly over 3 years, and are
assigned an exercise price of not less than the fair market value of the Company's
stock on the date of grant.

*352,000 shares under the Lowe's Companies, Inc. Directors'
Stock Option Plan. During the term of the Plan, each non-employee Director will
be awarded 4,000 options on the date of the first board meeting after each
annual meeting of the Company's shareholders (the award date). The maximum
number of shares available for grant under the Plan is 500,000, subject to
adjustment. No awards may be granted under the Plan after the award date in
2008. The options vest evenly over three years, expire after seven years and are
assigned a price equal to the fair market value of the Company's common stock on
the date of grant.

* 6,095,249 shares available under the Employee Stock Purchase
Plan. Eligible employees may participate in the purchase of designated shares of
the Company's common stock. The purchase price of this stock is equal to 85%
of the lower of the closing price at the beginning or the end of each
semi-annual stock purchase period.

See "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
Management and Related Stockholder Matters" included in the definitive
Proxy Statement, which will be filed pursuant to regulation 14A, with the SEC
within 120 days after the fiscal year ended January 31, 2003.

Item 13 - Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

See "Information about the Board of Directors and
Committees of the Board" included in the definitive Proxy Statement which
will be filed pursuant to regulation 14A, with the SEC within 120 days after the
fiscal year ended January 31, 2003.

Item 14 - Controls and Procedures

The Company has designed and maintains disclosure controls
and procedures to ensure that information required to be disclosed in its
reports filed or submitted under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed,
summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Commission's
rules and forms. These controls and procedures are also designed to ensure that
such information is communicated to the Company's management, including its
Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officers as appropriate, to allow them to
make timely decisions about required disclosures.

The Company's management, including the Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer, have conducted an evaluation of the
effectiveness of disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to Exchange Act
Rule 13a-14. Based on that evaluation, which was conducted within 90 days of the
filing of this annual report on Form 10-K, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer concluded that disclosure controls and procedures are
effective.

There have been no significant changes in internal controls or
in other factors that could significantly affect internal controls subsequent to
the date of the Chief Executive Officer's and Chief Financial Officer's most
recent evaluation.

-11-

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, this report on Form 10-K has been signed below by the following persons on
behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated. Each
of the directors of the Registrant whose signature appears below hereby appoints
Robert F. Hull, Jr., Kenneth W. Black, Jr. and Stephen A. Hellrung, and each of
them severally, as his or her attorney-in-fact to sign in his or her name and
behalf, in any and all capacities stated below, and to file with the Securities
and Exchange Commission any and all amendments to this report on Form 10-K,
making such changes in this report on Form 10-K as appropriate, and generally to
do all such things in their behalf in their capacities as directors and/or
officers to enable the Registrant to comply with the provisions of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and all requirements of the Securities and
Exchange Commission.

CERTIFICATIONS

I, Robert L. Tillman, Chairman of the Board and Chief
Executive Officer of Lowe's Companies, Inc., certify that:

1.  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of
Lowe's Companies, Inc.;

2.  Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not
contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact
necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which
such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by
this annual report;

3.  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and
other financial information included in this annual report, fairly present in
all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash
flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual
report;

4.  The registrant's other certifying officers and I
are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and
procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14) for the
registrant and have:

a) designed such disclosure controls and procedures to
  ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its
  consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
  entities, particularly during the period in which this annual report is being
  prepared;

b) evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's
  disclosure controls and procedures as of a date within 90 days prior to the
  filing date of this annual report (the "Evaluation Date"); and

-16-

c) presented in this annual report our conclusions about the
  effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures based on our
  evaluation as of the Evaluation Date;

5.  The registrant's other certifying officers and I
have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation, to the registrant's
auditors and the audit committee of registrant's board of directors (or
persons performing the equivalent functions):

a) all significant deficiencies in the design or operation
  of internal controls which could adversely affect the registrant's ability
  to record, process, summarize and report financial data and have identified
  for the registrant's auditors any material weaknesses in internal controls;
  and

b) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves
  management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's
  internal controls; and

6.  The registrant's other certifying officers and I
have indicated in this annual report whether there were significant changes in
internal controls or in other factors that could significantly affect internal
controls subsequent to the date of our most recent evaluation, including any
corrective actions with regard to significant deficiencies and material
weaknesses.

/s/ Robert L.
Tillman

Name:  Robert L. Tillman

Title:    Chairman of the Board and

Chief
Executive Officer

Date:    April 9, 2003

I, Robert F. Hull, Jr., Senior Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer of Lowe's Companies, Inc., certify that:

1.  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of
Lowe's Companies, Inc.;

2.  Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not
contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact
necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which
such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by
this annual report;

3.  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and
other financial information included in this annual report, fairly present in
all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash
flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual
report;

4.  The registrant's other certifying officers and I
are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and
procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14) for the
registrant and have:

-17-

a) designed such disclosure controls and procedures to
  ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its
  consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
  entities, particularly during the period in which this annual report is being
  prepared;

b) evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's
  disclosure controls and procedures as of a date within 90 days prior to the
  filing date of this annual report (the "Evaluation Date"); and

c) presented in this annual report our conclusions about the
  effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures based on our
  evaluation as of the Evaluation Date;

5. The registrant's other certifying officers and I have
disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation, to the registrant's auditors
and the audit committee of registrant's board of directors (or persons
performing the equivalent functions):

a) all significant deficiencies in the design or operation
  of internal controls which could adversely affect the registrant's ability
  to record, process, summarize and report financial data and have identified
  for the registrant's auditors any material weaknesses in internal controls;
  and

b) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves
  management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's
  internal controls; and

6. The registrant's other certifying officers and I have
indicated in this annual report whether there were significant changes in
internal controls or in other factors that could significantly affect internal
controls subsequent to the date of our most recent evaluation, including any
corrective actions with regard to significant deficiencies and material
weaknesses.

/s/ Robert F. Hull,
Jr.

Name: Robert F. Hull, Jr.

Title:   Senior Vice President and

Chief Financial Officer

Date:   April 9, 2003