ITEM 1.BUSINESS

As used herein, the terms “Company,” “AmerisourceBergen,” “we,” “us,” or “our” refer to
AmerisourceBergen Corporation, a Delaware corporation.

AmerisourceBergen Corporation is one of the world’s largest pharmaceutical services companies,
with operations primarily in the United States and Canada. Servicing both healthcare providers and
pharmaceutical manufacturers in the pharmaceutical supply channel, we provide drug distribution and
related services designed to reduce costs and improve patient outcomes. More specifically, we
distribute a comprehensive offering of brand-name and generic pharmaceuticals, over-the-counter
healthcare products, home healthcare supplies and equipment, and related services to a wide variety
of healthcare providers primarily located in the United States and Canada, including acute care
hospitals and health systems, independent and chain retail pharmacies, mail order pharmacies,
medical and dialysis clinics, physicians and physician group practices, long-term care and other
alternate site pharmacies, and other customers. We also provide pharmacy services to certain
specialty drug patients. Additionally, we furnish healthcare providers and pharmaceutical
manufacturers with an assortment of related services, including pharmaceutical packaging, pharmacy
automation, inventory management, reimbursement and pharmaceutical consulting services, logistics
services, and pharmacy management.

Industry Overview

Pharmaceutical sales in the United States, as recently estimated by IMS Healthcare, Inc.
(“IMS”), an independent third party provider of information to the pharmaceutical and healthcare
industry, are expected to grow annually between 0% and 3% through 2015. IMS expects that certain
sectors of the market, such as biotechnology and other specialty and generic pharmaceuticals, will
grow faster than the overall market.

In addition to general economic conditions, factors that impact the growth of the
pharmaceutical industry in the United States, and other industry trends, include:

Aging Population.The number of individuals age 55 and over in the United States currently
exceeds 75 million and is one of the most rapidly growing segments of the population. This age
group suffers from more chronic illnesses and disabilities than the rest of the population and is
estimated to account for approximately 75% of total healthcare expenditures in the United States.

Introduction of New Pharmaceuticals.Traditional research and development, as well as the
advent of new research, production and delivery methods such as biotechnology and gene therapy,
continue to generate new pharmaceuticals and delivery methods that are more effective in treating
diseases. We believe ongoing research and development expenditures by the leading pharmaceutical
manufacturers will contribute to continued growth of the industry. In particular, we believe
ongoing research and development of biotechnology and other specialty pharmaceutical drugs will
provide opportunities for the continued growth of our specialty pharmaceuticals business.

Increased Use of Generic Pharmaceuticals.A significant number of patents for widely used
brand-name pharmaceutical products will expire during the next several years. We expect over 30
brand to generic conversions during the next twelve months. In addition, increased emphasis by
managed care and other third party payors on utilization of generics has accelerated their growth.
We consider the increase in generic usage a favorable trend because generic pharmaceuticals have
historically provided us with a greater gross profit margin opportunity than brand-name products,
although their lower prices reduce revenue growth.

Increased Use of Drug Therapies.In response to rising healthcare costs, governmental and
private payors have adopted cost containment measures that encourage the use of efficient drug
therapies to prevent or treat diseases. While national attention has been focused on the overall
increase in aggregate healthcare costs, we believe drug therapy has had a beneficial impact on
healthcare costs by reducing expensive surgeries and prolonged hospital stays. Pharmaceuticals
currently account for approximately 10% of overall healthcare costs. Pharmaceutical manufacturers’
continued emphasis on research and development is expected to result in the continuing introduction
of cost-effective drug therapies and new uses for existing drug therapies.

Legislative Developments.In recent years, regulation of the healthcare industry has changed
significantly in an effort to increase drug utilization and reduce costs. These changes included
expansion of Medicare coverage for outpatient prescription drugs, the enrollment (beginning in
2006) of Medicare beneficiaries in prescription drug plans offered by private entities, and cuts in
Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates. More recently, in
March 2010, the federal government enacted
major health reform legislation designed to expand access to health insurance, which would increase
the number of people in the United States who are eligible to be reimbursed for all or a portion of
prescription drug costs. The health reform law provides for sweeping changes to Medicare and
Medicaid policies (including drug reimbursement policies), expanded disclosure requirements
regarding financial arrangements within the healthcare industry, enhanced enforcement authority to
prevent fraud and abuse, and new taxes and fees on pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers. These policies and other legislative developments may affect
our businesses directly and/or indirectly (see Government Regulation on page 6 for further
details).





The Company

We currently serve our customers (healthcare providers, pharmaceutical manufacturers, and
certain specialty drug patients) through a geographically diverse network of distribution service
centers and other operations in the United States and Canada, and through packaging facilities in
the United States and the United Kingdom. In our pharmaceutical distribution business, we are
typically the primary source of supply of pharmaceutical and related products to our healthcare
provider customers. We offer a broad range of services to our customers designed to enhance the
efficiency and effectiveness of their operations, which allows them to improve the delivery of
healthcare to patients and to lower overall costs in the pharmaceutical supply channel.

Strategy

Our business strategy is focused solely on the pharmaceutical supply channel where we provide
value-added distribution and service solutions to healthcare providers (primarily pharmacies,
health systems, medical and dialysis clinics, and physicians) and pharmaceutical manufacturers that
increase channel efficiencies and improve patient outcomes. Implementing this disciplined, focused
strategy has allowed us to significantly expand our business, and we believe we are well-positioned
to continue to grow revenue and increase operating income through the execution of the following
key elements of our business strategy:

•Optimize and Grow Our Pharmaceutical Distribution and Service Businesses.We believe we
are well-positioned in size and market breadth to continue to grow our distribution business
as we invest to improve our operating and capital efficiencies. Distribution anchors our
growth and position in the pharmaceutical supply channel, as we provide superior
distribution services and deliver value-added solutions, which improve the efficiency and
competitiveness of both healthcare providers and pharmaceutical manufacturers, thus allowing
the pharmaceutical supply channel to better deliver healthcare to patients.

With the rapid growth of generic pharmaceuticals in the U.S. market, we have introduced
strategies to enhance our position in the generic marketplace. We source generics globally,
offer a value-added generic formulary program to our healthcare provider customers, and monitor
our customers’ compliance with our generics program. We also provide data and other valuable
services to our generic manufacturing customers.

We believe we have one of the lowest cost operating structures among all pharmaceutical
distributors. AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation has a distribution facility network totaling
26 distribution facilities in the U.S. We continue to seek opportunities to achieve
productivity and operating income gains as we invest in and continue to implement warehouse
automation technology, adopt “best practices” in warehousing activities, and increase operating
leverage by increasing volume per full-service distribution facility. Furthermore, we believe
that the investments we continue to make related to our Business Transformation project will
reduce our operating expenses in the future (see Information Systems on page 4 for further
details).

We offer value-added services and solutions to assist healthcare providers and pharmaceutical
manufacturers to improve their efficiency and their patient outcomes. Services for
manufacturers include: assistance with rapid new product launches, promotional and marketing
services to accelerate product sales, product data reporting and logistical support. In
addition, we provide packaging services to manufacturers, including contract packaging.

Our provider solutions include: our Good Neighbor Pharmacy®program, which enables
independent community pharmacies to compete more effectively through pharmaceutical benefit and
merchandising programs; Good Neighbor Pharmacy Provider Network®, our managed care
network, which connects our retail pharmacy customers to payor plans throughout the country and
is the fourth-largest in the U.S.; generic product purchasing services; hospital pharmacy
consulting designed to improve operational efficiencies; scalable automated pharmacy dispensing
equipment; and packaging services that deliver unit dose, punch card and other compliance
packaging for institutional and retail pharmacy customers.

In an effort to supplement our organic growth, we continue to utilize a disciplined approach to
seek acquisitions that will assist us with our strategic growth plans.

In fiscal 2009, we acquired Innomar Strategies Inc. (“Innomar”), a Canadian pharmaceutical
services company. Innomar provides services within Canada to pharmaceutical and biotechnology
companies, including strategic consulting and access solutions, specialty logistics management,
patient assistance and nursing services, and clinical research services. Innomar has increased
our distribution and services presence in Canada.







•Optimize and Grow Our Specialty Distribution and Service Businesses. Representing $15.5
billion in total revenue in fiscal 2011, our specialty pharmaceuticals business has a
significant presence in this growing part of the pharmaceutical supply channel. With
distribution and value-added services to physicians and other healthcare providers,
including dialysis clinics, our specialty pharmaceuticals business is a well-developed
platform for growth. We are the leader in distribution and services to community
oncologists and have leading positions in other physician-administered products. We also
distribute plasma and other blood products, injectible pharmaceuticals and vaccines.
Additionally, we are well-positioned to service and support many of the new biotechnology
therapies that will be coming to market in the near future.

The September 2011 acquisition of IntrinsiQ, LLC (“IntrinsiQ”) enhanced our proprietary
data offerings to both physicians and manufacturers. IntrinsiQ is a leading provider of
informatics solutions that help community oncologists make treatment decisions for their
patients. We continue to seek opportunities to expand our offerings in specialty distribution
and services.

•Optimize and Grow Our Consulting and Packaging Services.Our consulting service
businesses help pharmaceutical and biotechnology manufacturers commercialize their
products in the channel. We believe we are the largest provider of reimbursement services
that assist pharmaceutical companies in supporting access to branded drugs. We also provide
outcomes research, contract field staffing, patient assistance and copay assistance
programs, adherence programs, risk mitigation services, and other market access programs to
pharmaceutical companies. Additionally, we are a leading provider of contract packaging and
we also provide clinical trial services for pharmaceutical and biotechnology manufacturers.

The September 2011 acquisition of Premier Source complements our consulting and
reimbursement services. Premier Source is a provider of consulting and reimbursement services
to medical device, pharmaceutical, molecular diagnostic, and biotechnology manufacturers, as
well as other health services companies.

On November 1, 2011, we acquired TheraCom, LLC (“TheraCom”), which will significantly
increase the size and scope of our consulting services. TheraCom is a leading provider of
commercialization support services to the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry, including
reimbursement and patient access support services. TheraCom’s capabilities complement those of
the Lash Group, which is part of AmerisourceBergen Consulting Services. We continue to seek
opportunities to expand our offerings in consulting and packaging services.

•Divestitures.In order to allow us to concentrate on our strategic focus areas of
pharmaceutical distribution and related services and specialty pharmaceutical distribution
and related services, we have divested certain non-core businesses and may, from time to
time, consider additional divestitures.

In October 2008, we sold PMSI, our workers’ compensation business.

Operations

Operating Structure.We are organized based upon the products and services we provide to our
customers. Our operations as of September 30, 2011 are comprised of one reportable segment,
Pharmaceutical Distribution.

The Pharmaceutical Distribution reportable segment represents the consolidated operating
results of the Company and is comprised of four operating segments, which include the operations of
AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation (“ABDC”), AmerisourceBergen Specialty Group (“ABSG”),
AmerisourceBergen Consulting Services (“ABCS”) and AmerisourceBergen Packaging Group (“ABPG”).
Servicing both healthcare providers and pharmaceutical manufacturers in the pharmaceutical supply
channel, the Pharmaceutical Distribution segment’s operations provide drug distribution and related
services designed to reduce healthcare costs and improve patient outcomes. Prior to fiscal 2011,
the business operations of ABCS were included within ABSG.

ABDC distributes a comprehensive offering of brand-name and generic pharmaceuticals,
over-the-counter healthcare products, home healthcare supplies and equipment, and related services
to a wide variety of healthcare providers, including acute care hospitals and health systems,
independent and chain retail pharmacies, mail order pharmacies, medical clinics, long-term care and
other alternate site pharmacies, and other customers. ABDC also provides pharmacy management,
staffing and other consulting services; scalable automated pharmacy dispensing equipment;
medication and supply dispensing cabinets; and supply management software to a variety of retail
and institutional healthcare providers.

ABSG, through a number of operating businesses, provides pharmaceutical distribution and other
services primarily to physicians who specialize in a variety of disease states, especially
oncology, and to other healthcare providers, including dialysis clinics. ABSG also distributes
plasma and other blood products, injectible pharmaceuticals and vaccines. Additionally, ABSG
provides third party logistics and other services for biotechnology and other pharmaceutical
manufacturers.





ABCS, through a number of operating businesses, provides commercialization support services
including reimbursement support programs, outcomes research, contract field staffing, patient
assistance and copay assistance programs, adherence programs, risk mitigation services, and other
market access programs to pharmaceutical and biotechnology manufacturers.

ABPG consists of American Health Packaging, Anderson Packaging (“Anderson”), and Brecon
Pharmaceuticals Limited (“Brecon”). American Health Packaging delivers unit dose, punch card,
unit-of-use, and other packaging solutions to institutional and retail healthcare providers.
American Health Packaging’s largest customer is ABDC and, as a result, its operations are closely
aligned with the operations of ABDC. Anderson and Brecon (based in the United Kingdom) are leading
providers of contract packaging and also provide clinical trials services for pharmaceutical manufacturers.
Beginning in fiscal 2012, to increase our operating efficiencies and to better align our
operations, each business unit within ABPG will be combined with ABDC or ABCS. More specifically,
the operations of American Health Packaging will be combined with the ABDC operating segment and
the operations of Anderson and Brecon will be combined with the ABCS operating segment.

Sales and Marketing.The majority of ABDC’s sales force is organized regionally and
specialized by either healthcare provider type or size. Customer service representatives are
located in distribution facilities in order to respond to customer needs in a timely and effective
manner. ABDC also has support professionals focused on its various technologies and service
offerings. ABDC’s national marketing organization designs and develops business management
solutions for AmerisourceBergen healthcare provider customers. Tailored to specific groups, these
programs can be further customized at the business unit or distribution facility level to adapt to
local market conditions. ABDC’s sales and marketing organization also serves national account
customers through close coordination with local distribution centers and ensures that our customers
are receiving service offerings that meet their needs. Our other operating segments each have
independent sales forces and marketing organizations that specialize in their respective product
and service offerings. In addition, we have a corporate marketing group that coordinates branding
and other marketing activities across the Company.

Customers.We have a diverse customer base that includes institutional and retail healthcare
providers as well as pharmaceutical manufacturers. Institutional healthcare providers include
acute care hospitals, health systems, mail order pharmacies, long-term care and other alternate
care pharmacies and providers of pharmacy services to such facilities, and physicians and physician
group practices. Retail healthcare providers include national and regional retail drugstore
chains, independent community pharmacies and pharmacy departments of supermarkets and mass
merchandisers. We are typically the primary source of supply for our healthcare provider
customers. Our manufacturing customers include branded, generic and biotechnology manufacturers of
prescription pharmaceuticals, as well as over-the-counter product and health and beauty aid
manufacturers. In addition, we offer a broad range of value-added solutions designed to enhance
the operating efficiencies and competitive positions of our customers, thereby allowing them to
improve the delivery of healthcare to patients and consumers. In fiscal 2011, total revenue was
comprised of 71% institutional customers and 29% retail customers.

In fiscal 2011, Medco Health Solutions, Inc., our largest customer, accounted for 19% of our
revenue. Our next largest customer accounted for 5.5% of our fiscal 2011 revenue. Our top 10
customers represented approximately 43% of fiscal 2011 revenue. In addition, we have contracts
with group purchasing organizations (“GPOs”), each of which functions as a purchasing agent on
behalf of its members, who are healthcare providers. Approximately 10% of our revenue in fiscal
2011 was derived from our three largest GPO relationships. The loss of any major customer or GPO
relationship could adversely affect future revenue and results of operations.

Suppliers.We obtain pharmaceutical and other products from manufacturers, none of which
accounted for 10% or more of our purchases in fiscal 2011. The loss of a supplier could adversely
affect our business if alternate sources of supply are unavailable since we are committed to be the
primary source of pharmaceutical products for a majority of our customers. We believe that our
relationships with our suppliers are good. The 10 largest suppliers in fiscal 2011 accounted for
approximately 51% of our purchases.

Information Systems.ABDC operates its full-service wholesale pharmaceutical distribution
facilities in the U.S. on a centralized system. ABDC’s operating system provides for, among other
things, electronic order entry by customers, invoice preparation and purchasing, and inventory
tracking. As a result of electronic order entry, the cost of receiving and processing orders has
not increased as rapidly as sales volume. ABDC’s systems are intended to strengthen customer
relationships by allowing the customer to lower its operating costs and by providing a platform for
a number of the basic and value-added services offered to our customers, including marketing,
product demand data, inventory replenishment, single-source billing, third party claims processing,
computer price updates and price labels.

ABDC continues to expand its electronic interface with its suppliers and currently processes a
substantial portion of its purchase orders, invoices and payments electronically. ABDC has a
warehouse operating system, which is used to account for the majority of ABDC’s transactional
volume. The warehouse operating system has improved ABDC’s productivity and operating leverage.
ABDC will continue to invest in advanced information systems and automated warehouse technology.





A significant portion of our information technology activities relating to ABDC and our
corporate functions are outsourced to IBM Global Services and other third party service providers.

In an effort to continue to make system investments to further improve our information
technology capabilities and meet our future customer and operational needs, we began to make
significant investments in fiscal 2008 relating to our Business Transformation project that
includes a new enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) system. The ERP system will include the
development and implementation of integrated processes to enhance our business practices and lower
costs. Effective October 2010, the majority of our corporate and administrative functions began
operating on our new ERP system. Additionally, in fiscal 2011, two of our ABDC distribution
facilities implemented and began using PassPort, our new web-based customer facing application with
enhanced ordering and product catalog features. We expect to continue the implementation of the
ERP system, including PassPort, and as a result, expect to continue to make significant
investments in our Business Transformation project.

ABSG operates the majority of its business on its own common, centralized platform resulting
in operating efficiencies as well as the ability to rapidly deploy new capabilities.

Competition

We face a highly competitive environment in the distribution of pharmaceuticals and related
healthcare services. Our largest national competitors are Cardinal Health, Inc. (“Cardinal”) and
McKesson Corporation (“McKesson”). ABDC competes with both Cardinal and McKesson, as well as
national generic distributors and regional distributors within pharmaceutical distribution. In
addition, we compete with manufacturers who sell directly to customers, chain drugstores who manage
their own warehousing, specialty distributors, and packaging and healthcare technology companies.
The distribution and related service businesses in which ABSG engages are also highly competitive.
ABSG’s operating businesses face competition from a variety of competitors, including McKesson,
Cardinal, FFF Enterprises, Henry Schein, Inc., Express Scripts, Inc., and UPS Logistics, among
others. Our Consulting and Packaging businesses also face competition from a variety of
competitors. In all areas, competitive factors include price, product offerings, value-added
service programs, service and delivery, credit terms, and customer support.

Intellectual Property

We use a number of trademarks and service marks. All of the principal trademarks and service
marks used in the course of our business have been registered in the United States and, in some
cases, in foreign jurisdictions or are the subject of pending applications for registration.

We have developed or acquired various proprietary products, processes, software and other
intellectual property that are used either to facilitate the conduct of our business or that are
made available as products or services to customers. We generally seek to protect such
intellectual property through a combination of trade secret, patent and copyright laws and through
confidentiality and other contractually imposed protections.

We hold patents and have patent applications pending that relate to certain of our products,
particularly our automated pharmacy dispensing equipment, our medication and supply dispensing
equipment, certain warehousing equipment and some of our proprietary packaging solutions. We seek
patent protection for our proprietary intellectual property from time to time as appropriate.

Although we believe that our patents or other proprietary products and processes do not
infringe upon the intellectual property rights of any third parties, third parties may assert
infringement claims against us from time to time.

Employees

As of September 30, 2011, we had approximately 10,300 employees, of which approximately 9,400
were full-time employees. Approximately 4.5% of our employees are covered by collective bargaining
agreements. We believe that our relationship with our employees is good. If any of our employees
in locations that are unionized should engage in strikes or other such bargaining tactics in
connection with the negotiation of new collective bargaining agreements upon the expiration of any
existing collective bargaining agreements, such tactics could be disruptive to our operations and
adversely affect our results of operations, but we believe we have adequate contingency plans in
place to assure delivery of pharmaceuticals to our customers in the event of any such disruptions.





Government Regulation

We are subject to oversight by various federal and state governmental entities and we are
subject to, and affected by, a variety of federal and state laws, regulations and policies.

The U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (“DEA”), the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
(“FDA”) and various state regulatory authorities regulate the purchase, storage, and/or
distribution of pharmaceutical products, including controlled substances. Wholesale distributors
of controlled substances must hold valid DEA licenses, meet various security and operating
standards and comply with regulations governing the sale, marketing, packaging, holding and
distribution of controlled substances. The DEA, FDA and state regulatory authorities have broad
enforcement powers, including the ability to suspend our distribution centers from distributing
controlled substances, seize or recall products and impose significant criminal, civil and
administrative sanctions. We have all necessary licenses or other regulatory approvals and believe
that we are in compliance with all applicable pharmaceutical wholesale distribution requirements
needed to conduct our operations.

We and our customers are subject to fraud and abuse laws, including federal anti-kickback
statutes. The anti-kickback statutes prohibit persons from soliciting, offering, receiving or
paying any remuneration in order to induce the purchasing, leasing or ordering, induce a referral
to purchase, lease or order, or arrange for or recommend purchasing, leasing or ordering items or
services that are in any way paid for by Medicare, Medicaid, or other federal healthcare programs.
The fraud and abuse laws and regulations are broad in scope and are subject to frequent
modification and varied interpretation.

In recent years, some states have passed or proposed laws and regulations that are intended to
protect the safety of the pharmaceutical supply channel. These laws and regulations are designed
to prevent the introduction of counterfeit, diverted, adulterated or mislabeled pharmaceuticals
into the distribution system. For example, Florida has adopted pedigree tracking requirements and
California has enacted a law requiring chain of custody technology using an interoperable
electronic system utilizing unique identification numbers on prescription drugs to create
electronic pedigrees, which will be effective for us in July 2016. These and other requirements
are expected to increase the cost of our operations.

At the federal level, final regulations issued pursuant to the Prescription Drug Marketing Act
became effective in December 2006. These FDA regulations impose pedigree and other chain of
custody requirements that increase our costs and/or burden of selling to other pharmaceutical
distributors and handling product returns. In addition, the FDA Amendments Act of 2007 requires
the FDA to establish standards and identify and validate effective technologies to secure the
pharmaceutical supply chain against counterfeit drugs. These standards may include track-and-trace
and/or authentication technologies that leverage data carriers applied by the manufacturer to the
sellable units and cases. The FDA is also required to develop a standardized numerical identifier
(“SNI”), which would be coded into the data carrier applied by the manufacturer. In March 2010,
the FDA issued guidance regarding the development of SNIs for prescription drug packages in which
the FDA identified package-level SNIs, as an initial step in the FDA’s development and
implementation of additional measures to secure the drug supply chain.

Federal legislation known as the Affordable Care Act became law in March 2010. The Affordable
Care Act is intended to expand health insurance coverage to more than 30 million uninsured
Americans through a combination of insurance market reforms, an expansion of Medicaid, subsidies
and health insurance mandates. When fully implemented, these provisions are expected to increase
the number of people in the United States who have insurance coverage for at least a portion of
their prescription drug costs. The Affordable Care Act contains many provisions designed to
generate the revenues necessary to fund the coverage expansions and reduce the costs of Medicare
and Medicaid. In addition, the Affordable Care Act changed the formula for federal upper limits
for multiple source drugs available for purchase by retail community pharmacies on a nationwide
basis to no less than 175% of the weighted average manufacturer price. While certain provisions of
the Affordable Care Act took effect immediately, others have delayed effective dates.

As a result of political, economic and regulatory influences, scrutiny of the healthcare
delivery system in the United States can be expected to continue at both the state and federal
levels. This process may result in additional legislation and/or regulation governing the delivery
or pricing of pharmaceutical products, as well as additional changes to the structure of the
present healthcare delivery system. We cannot predict what additional initiatives, if any, will be
adopted, when they may be adopted, or what impact they may have on us.

The costs, burdens, and/or impacts of complying with federal and state regulations could be
significant and the failure to comply with any such legal requirements could have a significant
impact on our results of operations and financial condition.

See “Risk Factors” below for a discussion of additional regulatory developments that may
affect our results of operations and financial condition.





Health Information Practices

The Health Information Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”) and its
accompanying federal regulations set forth health information standards in order to protect
security and privacy in the exchange of individually identifiable health information. In addition,
our operations, depending on their location, may be subject to state or foreign regulations
affecting personal data protection and the manner in which information services or products are
provided. Significant criminal and civil penalties may be imposed for violation of HIPAA standards
and other such laws. We have a HIPAA compliance program to facilitate our ongoing effort to comply
with the HIPAA regulations.

Enacted in 2009, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (“ARRA”) strengthens federal
privacy and security provisions to protect personally-identifiable health information, including by
imposing new notification requirements related to health data security breaches. The ARRA also
provides incentive payments to eligible healthcare providers participating in Medicare and Medicaid
programs that adopt certified electronic health record (“HER”) technology. The Electronic
Prescribing (eRx) Incentive Program provides incentives for eligible healthcare providers who are
successful electronic prescribers; beginning in 2012, eligible providers who are not successful
electronic prescribers may be subject to a reduction in their Medicare physician fee schedule
payments (unless they receive a significant hardship exemption). There can be no assurances that
compliance with the new privacy requirements and compliance with EHR standards will not impose new
costs on our business.

Available Information

For more information about us, visit our website atwww.amerisourcebergen.com. The contents
of the website are not part of this Form 10-K. Our electronic filings with the Securities and
Exchange Commission (including all Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K, and any amendments to these reports)
are available free of charge through the “Investors” section of our website immediately after we
electronically file with or furnish them to the Securities and Exchange Commission and may also be
viewed using their website atwww.sec.gov.







