ITEM 1.BUSINESS

As used herein, the terms “Company,” “AmerisourceBergen,” “we,” “us,” or “our” refer to
AmerisourceBergen Corporation, a Delaware corporation.

AmerisourceBergen Corporation is one of the world’s largest pharmaceutical services companies,
with operations primarily in the United States and Canada. Servicing both healthcare providers and
pharmaceutical manufacturers in the pharmaceutical supply channel, we provide drug distribution and
related services designed to reduce costs and improve patient outcomes. More specifically, we
distribute a comprehensive offering of brand-name and generic pharmaceuticals, over-the-counter
healthcare products, home healthcare supplies and equipment, and related services to a wide variety
of healthcare providers primarily located in the United States and Canada, including acute care
hospitals and health systems, independent and chain retail pharmacies, mail order pharmacies,
medical and dialysis clinics, physicians and physician group practices, long-term care and other
alternate site pharmacies, and other customers. We also provide pharmacy services to certain
specialty drug patients. Additionally, we furnish healthcare providers and pharmaceutical
manufacturers with an assortment of related services, including pharmaceutical packaging, pharmacy
automation, inventory management, reimbursement and pharmaceutical consulting services, logistics
services, and pharmacy management.

Industry Overview

Pharmaceutical sales in the United States, as recently estimated by IMS Healthcare, Inc.
(“IMS”), an independent third party provider of information to the pharmaceutical and healthcare
industry, are expected to grow between 3% and 5% in calendar 2011. IMS expects that certain
sectors of the market, such as biotechnology and other specialty and generic pharmaceuticals, will
grow faster than the overall market. Additionally, IMS expects the U.S. pharmaceutical industry to
grow annually between 2% and 5% through 2014.

In addition to general economic conditions, factors that impact the growth of the
pharmaceutical industry in the United States, and other industry trends, include:

Aging Population.The number of individuals age 55 and over in the United States currently
exceeds 70 million and is one of the most rapidly growing segments of the population. This age
group suffers from more chronic illnesses and disabilities than the rest of the population and is
estimated to account for approximately 75% of total healthcare expenditures in the United States.

Introduction of New Pharmaceuticals.Traditional research and development, as well as the
advent of new research, production and delivery methods such as biotechnology and gene therapy,
continue to generate new pharmaceuticals and delivery methods that are more effective in treating
diseases. We believe ongoing research and development expenditures by the leading pharmaceutical
manufacturers will contribute to continued growth of the industry. In particular, we believe
ongoing research and development of biotechnology and other specialty pharmaceutical drugs will
provide opportunities for the continued growth of our specialty pharmaceuticals business.

Increased Use of Generic Pharmaceuticals.A significant number of patents for widely used
brand-name pharmaceutical products will expire during the next several years. In addition,
increased emphasis by managed care and other third-party payors on utilization of generics has
accelerated their growth. We consider the increase in generic usage a favorable trend because
generic pharmaceuticals have historically provided us with a greater gross profit margin
opportunity than brand-name products, although their lower prices reduce revenue growth.

Increased Use of Drug Therapies.In response to rising healthcare costs, governmental and
private payors have adopted cost containment measures that encourage the use of efficient drug
therapies to prevent or treat diseases. While national attention has been focused on the overall
increase in aggregate healthcare costs, we believe drug therapy has had a beneficial impact on
overall healthcare costs by reducing expensive surgeries and prolonged hospital stays.
Pharmaceuticals currently account for approximately 10% of overall healthcare costs.
Pharmaceutical manufacturers’ continued emphasis on research and development is expected to
result in the continuing introduction of cost-effective drug therapies and new uses for existing
drug therapies.

Legislative Developments.In recent years, regulation of the healthcare industry has
changed significantly in an effort to increase drug utilization and reduce costs. These changes
included expansion of Medicare coverage for outpatient prescription drugs, the enrollment
(beginning in 2006) of Medicare beneficiaries in prescription drug plans offered by private
entities, and cuts in Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates. More recently, in March 2010,
the United States Congress enacted major health reform legislation designed to expand access to
health insurance, which would increase the number of people in the United States who are eligible
to be reimbursed for all or a portion of prescription drug costs. The health reform law provides
for sweeping changes to
Medicare and Medicaid policies (including drug reimbursement policies), expanded disclosure
requirements regarding financial arrangements within the healthcare industry, enhanced
enforcement authority to prevent fraud and abuse, and new taxes and fees on pharmaceutical and
medical device manufacturers. These policies and other legislative developments may affect our
businesses directly and/or indirectly (see Government Regulation on
page 6 for further details).





The Company

We currently serve our customers (healthcare providers, pharmaceutical manufacturers, and
certain specialty drug patients) through a geographically diverse network of distribution service
centers and other operations in the United States and Canada, and through packaging facilities in
the United States and the United Kingdom. In our pharmaceutical distribution business, we are
typically the primary source of supply of pharmaceutical and related products to our healthcare
provider customers. We offer a broad range of services to our customers designed to enhance the
efficiency and effectiveness of their operations, which allows them to improve the delivery of
healthcare to patients and to lower overall costs in the pharmaceutical supply channel.

Strategy

Our business strategy is focused solely on the pharmaceutical supply channel where we provide
value-added distribution and service solutions to healthcare providers (primarily pharmacies,
health systems, medical and dialysis clinics, and physicians) and pharmaceutical manufacturers that
increase channel efficiencies and improve patient outcomes. Implementing this disciplined, focused
strategy has allowed us to significantly expand our business, and we believe we are well-positioned
to continue to grow revenue and increase operating income through the execution of the following
key elements of our business strategy:

•Optimize and Grow Our Pharmaceutical Distribution and Service Businesses.We believe we
are well-positioned in size and market breadth to continue to grow our distribution business
as we invest to improve our operating and capital efficiencies. Distribution anchors our
growth and position in the pharmaceutical supply channel, as we provide superior
distribution services and deliver value-added solutions, which improve the efficiency and
competitiveness of both healthcare providers and pharmaceutical manufacturers, thus allowing
the pharmaceutical supply channel to better deliver healthcare to patients.

With the rapid growth of generic pharmaceuticals in the U.S. market, we have introduced
strategies to enhance our position in the generic marketplace. We source generics globally,
offer a value-added generic formulary program to our healthcare provider customers, and monitor
our customers’ compliance with our generics program. We also provide data and other valuable
services to our generic manufacturing customers.

We believe we have one of the lowest cost operating structures among all pharmaceutical
distributors. AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation has a distribution facility network totaling
26 distribution facilities in the U.S. We continue to seek opportunities to achieve
productivity and operating income gains as we invest in and continue to implement warehouse
automation technology, adopt “best practices” in warehousing activities, and increase operating
leverage by increasing volume per full-service distribution facility. Furthermore, we believe
that the investments we continue to make related to our Business Transformation project
through 2012 will reduce our operating expenses in the future (see Information Systems on
page 4 for further details).

We offer value-added services and solutions to assist healthcare providers and pharmaceutical
manufacturers to improve their efficiency and their patient outcomes. Services for
manufacturers include: assistance with rapid new product launches, promotional and marketing
services to accelerate product sales, product data reporting and logistical support. In
addition, we provide packaging services to manufacturers, including contract packaging.

Our provider solutions include: our Good Neighbor Pharmacy®program, which enables
independent community pharmacies to compete more effectively through pharmaceutical benefit and
merchandising programs; Good Neighbor Pharmacy Provider Network®, our managed care
network, which connects our retail pharmacy customers to payor plans throughout the country and
is the fourth-largest in the U.S.; generic product purchasing services; hospital pharmacy
consulting designed to improve operational efficiencies; scalable automated pharmacy dispensing
equipment; and packaging services that deliver unit dose, punch card and other compliance
packaging for institutional and retail pharmacy customers.

In an effort to supplement our organic growth, we continue to utilize a disciplined approach to
seek acquisitions that will assist us with our strategic growth plans.

In October 2007, we acquired Bellco Health (“Bellco”), a privately held New York distributor of
branded and generic pharmaceuticals. Bellco primarily services independent retail community
pharmacies in the metropolitan New York City area. The acquisition of Bellco expanded the
Company’s presence in this large community pharmacy market. Nationally, Bellco markets and
sells generic pharmaceuticals to individual retail pharmacies, and, through business operations
that are now part of
AmerisourceBergen Specialty Group, provides pharmaceutical products and services to dialysis
clinics. Bellco business operations have been integrated into the operations of
AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation as well as AmerisourceBergen Specialty Group.





In fiscal 2009, we acquired Innomar Strategies Inc. (“Innomar”), a Canadian pharmaceutical
services company, for a purchase price of $13.4 million. Innomar provides services within
Canada to pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including strategic consulting and access
solutions, specialty logistics management, patient assistance and nursing services, and
clinical research services. Innomar has increased our distribution and services presence in
Canada.

•Optimize and Grow Our Specialty Distribution and Service Businesses. Representing
$16.3 billion in total revenue in fiscal 2010, our specialty pharmaceuticals business has a
significant presence in this rapidly growing part of the pharmaceutical supply channel.
With distribution and value-added services to physicians and a broad array of pharmaceutical
and specialty services for manufacturers, our specialty pharmaceuticals business is a
well-developed platform for growth. We are the leader in distribution and services to
community oncologists and have leading positions in other physician-administered products.
We also distribute plasma and other blood products, injectible pharmaceuticals and vaccines.
Additionally, we are well-positioned to service and support many of the new biotech
therapies that will be coming to market in the near future.

Our specialty service businesses help pharmaceutical manufacturers, especially in the
biotechnology sector, commercialize their products in the channel. We believe we are the
largest provider of reimbursement services that assist pharmaceutical companies to launch drugs
with targeted populations and support the products in the supply channel. We also provide
third party logistics, nursing services, and specialty pharmacy services to help speed products
to market.

Our acquisition of Bellco in fiscal 2008 allowed us to significantly increase our sales of
pharmaceutical products and services to dialysis clinics. We continue to seek opportunities to
expand our offerings in specialty distribution and services.

•Divestitures.In order to allow us to concentrate on our strategic focus areas of
pharmaceutical distribution and related services and specialty pharmaceutical distribution
and related services, we have divested certain non-core businesses and may, from time to
time, consider additional divestitures.

In October 2008, we sold PMSI, our workers’ compensation business.

In 2007, the Company and Kindred Healthcare, Inc. (“Kindred”) completed the spin-offs and
subsequent combination of their institutional pharmacy businesses, PharMerica Long-Term Care
(“Long-Term Care”) and Kindred Pharmacy Services (“KPS”), to form a new, independent, publicly
traded company named PharMerica Corporation (“PMC”).

Operations

Operating Structure.We are organized based upon the products and services we provide to our
customers. Our operations as of September 30, 2010 are comprised of one reportable segment,
Pharmaceutical Distribution.

The Pharmaceutical Distribution reportable segment is comprised of three operating segments,
which include the operations of AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation (“ABDC”), AmerisourceBergen
Specialty Group (“ABSG” or “Specialty Group”), and AmerisourceBergen Packaging Group (“ABPG” or
“Packaging Group”). Servicing both healthcare providers and pharmaceutical manufacturers in the
pharmaceutical supply channel, the Pharmaceutical Distribution segment’s operations provide drug
distribution and related services designed to reduce healthcare costs and improve patient outcomes.

ABDC distributes a comprehensive offering of brand-name and generic pharmaceuticals,
over-the-counter healthcare products, home healthcare supplies and equipment, and related services
to a wide variety of healthcare providers, including acute care hospitals and health systems,
independent and chain retail pharmacies, mail order pharmacies, medical clinics, long-term care and
other alternate site pharmacies, and other customers. ABDC also provides pharmacy management,
staffing and other consulting services; scalable automated pharmacy dispensing equipment;
medication and supply dispensing cabinets; and supply management software to a variety of retail
and institutional healthcare providers.

ABSG, through a number of individual operating businesses, provides pharmaceutical
distribution and other services primarily to physicians who specialize in a variety of disease
states, especially oncology, and to other healthcare providers, including dialysis clinics. ABSG
also distributes plasma and other blood products, injectible pharmaceuticals and vaccines. In
addition, through its specialty service businesses, ABSG provides drug commercialization services,
third party logistics, reimbursement consulting, data analytics, outcomes research, and other
services for biotech and other pharmaceutical manufacturers, as well as practice management, and
group purchasing services for physician practices. Beginning in fiscal 2011, certain specialty
service businesses within ABSG
will be combined to form the operations of AmerisourceBergen Consulting Services (“ABCS”).
These businesses will principally provide drug commercialization services, reimbursement
consulting, data analytics, and outcomes research. ABCS revenue in
fiscal 2010 was less than 1% of our consolidated revenue.





ABPG consists of American Health Packaging, Anderson Packaging (“Anderson”), and Brecon
Pharmaceuticals Limited (“Brecon”). American Health Packaging delivers unit dose, punch card,
unit-of-use, and other packaging solutions to institutional and retail healthcare providers.
American Health Packaging’s largest customer is ABDC, and, as a result, its operations are closely
aligned with the operations of ABDC. Anderson is a leading provider of contract packaging services
for pharmaceutical manufacturers and has recently entered the clinical trials packaging service
business. Brecon is a United Kingdom-based provider of contract packaging and clinical trials
materials services for pharmaceutical manufacturers.

Sales and Marketing.The majority of ABDC’s sales force is organized regionally and
specialized by healthcare provider type. Customer service representatives are located in
distribution facilities in order to respond to customer needs in a timely and effective manner.
ABDC also has support professionals focused on its various technologies and service offerings.
ABDC’s national marketing organization designs and develops business management solutions for
AmerisourceBergen healthcare provider customers. Tailored to specific groups, these programs can
be further customized at the business unit or distribution facility level to adapt to local market
conditions. ABDC’s sales and marketing organization also serves national account customers through
close coordination with local distribution centers and ensures that our customers are receiving
service offerings that meet their needs. Our Specialty and Packaging groups each have independent
sales forces and marketing organizations that specialize in their respective product and service
offerings.

Customers.We have a diverse customer base that includes institutional and retail healthcare
providers as well as pharmaceutical manufacturers. Institutional healthcare providers include
acute care hospitals, health systems, mail order pharmacies, long-term care and other alternate
care pharmacies and providers of pharmacy services to such facilities, and physicians and physician
group practices. Retail healthcare providers include national and regional retail drugstore
chains, independent community pharmacies and pharmacy departments of supermarkets and mass
merchandisers. We are typically the primary source of supply for our healthcare provider
customers. Our manufacturing customers include branded, generic and biotech manufacturers of
prescription pharmaceuticals, as well as over-the-counter product and health and beauty aid
manufacturers. In addition, we offer a broad range of value-added solutions designed to enhance
the operating efficiencies and competitive positions of our customers, thereby allowing them to
improve the delivery of healthcare to patients and consumers. In fiscal 2010, total revenue was
comprised of 70% institutional customers and 30% retail customers.

In fiscal 2010, Medco Health Solutions, Inc., our largest customer, accounted for 18% of our
revenue. No other individual customer accounted for more than 5% of our fiscal 2010 revenue. Our
top ten customers represented approximately 42% of fiscal 2010 revenue. In addition, we have
contracts with group purchasing organizations (“GPOs”), each of which functions as a purchasing
agent on behalf of its members, who are healthcare providers. Approximately 10% of our revenue in
fiscal 2010 was derived from our three largest GPO relationships. The loss of any major customer or
GPO relationship could adversely affect future revenue and results of operations.

Suppliers.We obtain pharmaceutical and other products from manufacturers, none of which
accounted for 10% or more of our purchases in fiscal 2010. The loss of a supplier could adversely
affect our business if alternate sources of supply are unavailable since we are committed to be the
primary source of pharmaceutical products for a majority of our customers. We believe that our
relationships with our suppliers are good. The ten largest suppliers in fiscal 2010 accounted for
approximately 50% of our purchases.

Information Systems.ABDC operates its full-service wholesale pharmaceutical distribution
facilities in the U.S. on a centralized system. ABDC’s operating system provides for, among other
things, electronic order entry by customers, invoice preparation and purchasing, and inventory
tracking. As a result of electronic order entry, the cost of receiving and processing orders has
not increased as rapidly as sales volume. ABDC’s systems are intended to strengthen customer
relationships by allowing the customer to lower its operating costs and by providing a platform for
a number of the basic and value-added services offered to our customers, including marketing,
product demand data, inventory replenishment, single-source billing, third-party claims processing,
computer price updates and price labels.

ABDC continues to expand its electronic interface with its suppliers and currently processes a
substantial portion of its purchase orders, invoices and payments electronically. ABDC has a new
warehouse operating system, which is used to account for primarily all of ABDC’s transactional
volume. The new warehouse operating system has improved ABDC’s productivity and operating
leverage. ABDC will continue to invest in advanced information systems and automated warehouse
technology.

A significant portion of our information technology activities relating to ABDC and our
corporate functions are outsourced to IBM Global Services.





In an effort to continue to make system investments to further improve our information
technology capabilities and meet our future customer and operational needs, we began to make significant
investments in fiscal 2008 relating to our Business Transformation project that will include a new
enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) platform. The ERP platform will be implemented throughout
ABDC and our corporate and administrative functions and will include the development and
implementation of integrated processes to enhance our business practices and lower costs.
Effective October 2010, the majority of our corporate and administrative functions began operating
on our new ERP platform. We expect to continue the implementation of the ERP platform and, as a
result, expect to continue to make significant investments in our Business Transformation project
through 2012.

ABSG operates the majority of its business on its own common, centralized platform resulting
in operating efficiencies as well as the ability to rapidly deploy new capabilities. The
convenience of ordering via the Internet is very important to ABSG’s customers. Over the past few
years, ABSG has enhanced its web capabilities such that a significant amount of orders are
initiated via the Internet.

Competition

We face a highly competitive environment in the distribution of pharmaceuticals and related
healthcare services. Our largest national competitors are Cardinal Health, Inc. (“Cardinal”) and
McKesson Corporation (“McKesson”). ABDC competes with both Cardinal and McKesson, as well as
national generic distributors and regional distributors within pharmaceutical distribution. In
addition, we compete with manufacturers who sell directly to customers, chain drugstores who manage
their own warehousing, specialty distributors, and packaging and healthcare technology companies.
The distribution and related service businesses in which ABSG engages are also highly competitive.
ABSG’s operating businesses face competition from a variety of competitors, including McKesson, US
Oncology, Inc. (which has signed an agreement to be acquired by McKesson), Cardinal, FFF
Enterprises, Henry Schein, Inc., Express Scripts, Inc., Covance Inc., and UPS Logistics, among
others. In all areas, competitive factors include price, product offerings, value-added service
programs, service and delivery, credit terms, and customer support.

Intellectual Property

We use a number of trademarks and service marks. All of the principal trademarks and service
marks used in the course of our business have been registered in the United States and, in some
cases, in foreign jurisdictions or are the subject of pending applications for registration.

We have developed or acquired various proprietary products, processes, software and other
intellectual property that are used either to facilitate the conduct of our business or that are
made available as products or services to customers. We generally seek to protect such
intellectual property through a combination of trade secret, patent and copyright laws and through
confidentiality and other contractually imposed protections.

We hold patents and have patent applications pending that relate to certain of our products,
particularly our automated pharmacy dispensing equipment, our medication and supply dispensing
equipment, certain warehousing equipment and some of our proprietary packaging solutions. We seek
patent protection for our proprietary intellectual property from time to time as appropriate.

Although we believe that our patents or other proprietary products and processes do not
infringe upon the intellectual property rights of any third parties, third parties may assert
infringement claims against us from time to time.

Employees

As of September 30, 2010, we had approximately 10,000 employees, of which approximately 9,100
were full-time employees. Approximately 4% of our employees are covered by collective bargaining
agreements. We believe that our relationship with our employees is good. If any of our employees
in locations that are unionized should engage in strikes or other such bargaining tactics in
connection with the negotiation of new collective bargaining agreements upon the expiration of any
existing collective bargaining agreements, such tactics could be disruptive to our operations and
adversely affect our results of operations, but we believe we have adequate contingency plans in
place to assure delivery of pharmaceuticals to our customers in the event of any such disruptions.





Government Regulation

We are subject to oversight by various federal and state governmental entities and we are
subject to, and affected by, a variety of federal and state laws, regulations and policies.

Federal and State Statutes and Regulation

The U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (“DEA”), the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
(“FDA”) and various state regulatory authorities regulate the purchase, storage, and/or
distribution of pharmaceutical products, including controlled substances. Wholesale distributors
of controlled substances are required to hold valid DEA licenses, meet various security and
operating standards, and comply with regulations governing their sale, marketing, packaging,
holding and distribution. The DEA, FDA and state regulatory authorities have broad enforcement
powers, including the ability to suspend our distribution centers from distributing controlled
substances, seize or recall products and impose significant criminal, civil and administrative
sanctions for violations of applicable laws and regulations. As a wholesale distributor of
pharmaceuticals and certain related products, we are subject to these laws and regulations. We
have all necessary licenses or other regulatory approvals and believe that we are in compliance
with all applicable pharmaceutical wholesale distribution requirements needed to conduct our
operations.

We and our customers are subject to fraud and abuse laws, including the federal anti-kickback
statutes. The anti-kickback statute, and the related regulations, prohibit persons from
soliciting, offering, receiving or paying any remuneration in order to induce the purchasing,
leasing or ordering, induce a referral to purchase, lease or order, or arrange for or recommend
purchasing, leasing or ordering items or services that are in any way paid for by Medicare,
Medicaid, or other federal healthcare programs. The fraud and abuse laws and regulations are broad
in scope and are subject to frequent modification and varied interpretation. ABSG’s operations and
certain aspects of ABDC’s operations are particularly subject to these laws and regulations.

In addition, the FDA Amendments Act of 2007 requires the FDA to establish standards and
identify and validate effective technologies for the purpose of securing the pharmaceutical supply
chain against counterfeit drugs. These standards may include track-and-trace or authentication
technologies, such as radio frequency identification devices and other technologies. The 2007 Act
requires the FDA to develop a standardized numerical identifier (SNI). In March 2010, the FDA
issued guidance regarding the development of SNIs for prescription drug packages. In this
guidance, the FDA identifies package-level SNIs, as an initial step in the FDA’s development and
implementation of additional measures to secure the drug supply chain.

In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and
Education and Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively known as the “Affordable Care Act”) became
law. The Affordable Care Act is intended to expand health insurance coverage to approximately 32
million uninsured Americans through a combination of insurance market reforms, an expansion of
Medicaid, subsidies, and health insurance mandates. When fully implemented, these provisions are
expected to increase the number of people in the United States who have insurance coverage for at
least a portion of their prescription drug costs. Other provisions of the Affordable Care Act seek
to reduce health care spending, such as by increasing manufacturer Medicaid drug rebates, revising
the calculation of Medicaid drug reimbursements, establishing an Independent Payment Advisory Board
to achieve additional Medicare savings, and establishing a regulatory pathway for the approval of
follow-on biologicals, promoting value-based purchasing, and





making other major changes to reimbursement to most types of Medicare providers and suppliers.
In addition, the Affordable Care Act makes a number of changes to the Medicare Part D program,
including providing for additional subsidies for beneficiaries in the Part D “coverage gap.” The
law requires drug and device manufacturers to disclose their relationships with physicians and
teaching hospitals. It also requires manufacturers and group purchasing organizations that do
business with federal health programs to disclose certain physician ownership and investment
interests. The Affordable Care Act imposes, among many other policy changes, significant new fees
and excise taxes on pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers, expands enforcement authority
to prevent fraud and abuse, expands comparative effectiveness research and requires testing of
health care delivery reforms. While certain provisions of the Affordable Care Act took effect
immediately, others have delayed effective dates.

As a result of political, economic and regulatory influences, scrutiny of the healthcare
delivery system in the United States can be expected to continue at both the state and federal
levels. This process may result in additional legislation and/or regulation governing the delivery
or pricing of pharmaceutical products, as well as additional changes to the structure of the
present healthcare delivery system. We cannot predict what additional initiatives, if any, will be
adopted, when they may be adopted, or what impact they may have on us.

The costs, burdens, and/or impacts of complying with federal and state regulations could be
significant and the failure to comply with any such legal requirements could have a significant
impact on our results of operations and financial condition.

Medicare and Medicaid

The Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (“MMA”) significantly
expanded Medicare coverage for outpatient prescription drugs through the new Medicare Part D
program. Beginning in 2006, Medicare beneficiaries became eligible to enroll in outpatient
prescription drug plans that are offered by private entities and became eligible for varying levels
of coverage for outpatient prescription drugs. Beneficiaries who participate select from a range of
stand-alone prescription drug plans or Medicare Advantage managed care plans that include
prescription drug coverage along with other Medicare services (“Part D Plans”). The Part D Plans
are required to make available certain drugs on their formularies. Each Part D Plan negotiates
reimbursement for Part D drugs with pharmaceutical manufacturers. The Part D Plan program has
increased the use of pharmaceuticals in the supply channel, which has a positive impact on our
revenues and profitability.





See “Risk Factors” below for a discussion of additional regulatory developments that may
affect our results of operations and financial condition.

Health Information Practices

The Health Information Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”) and its
accompanying federal regulations set forth health information standards in order to protect
security and privacy in the exchange of individually identifiable health information. In addition,
our operations, depending on their location, may be subject to additional state or foreign
regulations affecting personal data protection and the manner in which information services or
products are provided. Significant criminal and civil penalties may be imposed for violation of
HIPAA standards and other such laws. We have a HIPAA compliance program to facilitate our ongoing
effort to comply with the HIPAA regulations.

On February 17, 2009, President Obama signed into law the American Recovery and Reinvestment
Act (“ARRA”). Among other things, the law further strengthens federal privacy and security
provisions to protect personally-identifiable health information, including new notification
requirements related to health data security breaches. The ARRA also provides incentive payments
to eligible healthcare providers participating in Medicare and Medicaid programs that adopt and
successfully demonstrate meaningful use of certified electronic health record (EHR) technology.
There can be no assurances that compliance with the new privacy requirements and compliance with
EHR standards will not impose new costs on our business.

Available Information

For more information about us, visit our website atwww.amerisourcebergen.com. The contents
of the website are not part of this Form 10-K. Our electronic filings with the Securities and
Exchange Commission (including all Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K, and any amendments to these reports)
are available free of charge through the “Investors” section of our website immediately after we
electronically file with or furnish them to the Securities and Exchange Commission and may also be
viewed using their website atwww.sec.gov.



