
10-K
WPL HOLDINGS, INC. FORM 10-K


                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C.  20549

                                   FORM  10-K
      
      [X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
           THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (Fee Required)
            For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994  
                                       OR
      [ ]  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
           THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (No Fee Required)
            For the transition period from __________ to __________

   Commission file number  1-9894 

                               WPL HOLDINGS, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

               Wisconsin                          39-1380265                 
   (State or other jurisdiction of    (I.R.S. Employer Identification Number)
   incorporation or organization)

   222 West Washington Avenue, Madison, Wisconsin               53703     
    (Address of principal executive offices)                  (Zip Code)

   Registrant's telephone number, including area code         (608) 252-3311

   Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                              Name of each exchange on
            Title of each class                   which registered    

   Common Stock (Par Value $.01 Per Share)     New York Stock Exchange

   Common Stock Purchase Rights                New York Stock Exchange

   Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                                      None
                                (Title of class)

               Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
   all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
   Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter
   period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has
   been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.
      Yes   X      No      

               Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
   pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will
   not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive
   proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of
   this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.[ ]

               The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by
   nonaffiliates of the registrant: $842,426,972 based upon the closing price
   as of January 31, 1995 of  the registrant's Common Stock, $.01 par value,
   on the New York Stock Exchange as reported in the Wall Street Journal.

               Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the
   registrant's classes of common stock, as of the latest practicable date.

             Class                            Outstanding at January 31, 1995

   Common Stock, $.01 par value                       30,773,588 shares

   DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

               Portions of the Company's 1995 Proxy Statement relating to its
   1995 Annual Meeting of Shareowners (to be filed with the Commission under
   Regulation 14A within 120 days after the end of the registrant's fiscal
   year) are incorporated by reference into Part III hereof.

   
                               WPL HOLDINGS, INC.
                                    FORM 10-K
                                December 31, 1994

                                



   Part I.  Business............................................   2

            Properties..........................................   16

            Legal Proceedings...................................   18

            Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.   19

            Executive Officers..................................   19

   Part II. Financial Information...............................   20

   Part III.  Directors and Executive Officers
              Information.......................................   52

   Part IV. Exhibits............................................   53

   Signatures....................................................  56

   Report of Independent Public Accountants on Schedules.........  57

   
                                     PART I
   ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

            WPL Holdings, Inc. (referred to herein as the "Company") was
   incorporated under the laws of the State of Wisconsin on April 22, 1981
   and operates as a holding company with both utility and nonregulated
   businesses.  It is the parent company of a public utility, Wisconsin Power
   and Light Company ("WPL") and its related subsidiaries, and of Heartland
   Development Corporation ("HDC"), the parent corporation for the Company's
   nonregulated businesses.  The Company has no employees who are not also
   employees of WPL and or HDC.  See Item 8 - "Financial Statements and
   Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements", Note 12,
   for financial information related to the Company's business segments.

                                       WPL

            WPL, incorporated in Wisconsin on February 21, 1917 as the
   Eastern Wisconsin Electric Company, is a public utility predominately
   engaged in the transmission and distribution of electric energy and the
   generation and bulk purchase of electric energy for sale.  WPL also
   transports, distributes and sells natural gas purchased from gas
   suppliers.  Nearly all of WPL's customers are located in south and central
   Wisconsin.  WPL operates in municipalities pursuant to permits of
   indefinite duration which are regulated by Wisconsin law.  WPL does not
   derive a material portion of its revenues from any one customer.

            WPL owns all of the outstanding capital stock of South Beloit
   Water, Gas and Electric Company ("South Beloit"), a public utility
   supplying electric, gas and water service, principally in Winnebago
   County, Illinois, which was incorporated on July 23, 1908.

            WPL also owns varying interests in several other subsidiaries
   and investments which are not material to WPL's operations.

   Regulation

            WPL is subject to regulation by the Public Service Commission
   of Wisconsin ("PSCW") as to retail utility rates and service, accounts, 
   issuance and use of proceeds of securities, certain additions and 
   extensions to facilities, and in other respects.  South Beloit is subject
   to regulation by the Illinois Commerce Commission ("ICC") for similar 
   items.  The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission ("FERC") has jurisdiction
   under the Federal Power Act over certain of the electric utility 
   facilities and operations, wholesale rates and accounting practices of 
   WPL and in certain other respects.  Certain of WPL's natural gas 
   facilities and operations are subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC
   under the Natural Gas Act.  The Company is presently exempt from all
   provisions of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, except
   provisions relating to the acquisition of securities of other public
   utility companies.

            The PSCW has recently opened a formal docket initiating an
   inquiry into the future structure of the electric utility industry in
   Wisconsin.  The goals of Wisconsin utility regulation and the principles
   to be used in choosing among alternative proposals have been identified. 
   WPL has submitted its preferred structure which, in summary form, calls
   for open access to transmission and distribution systems and a competitive
   power generation marketplace.  It is not possible at this time to predict
   the outcome of these proceedings.

            With respect to environmental matters impacting WPL and its
   subsidiaries, the United States Environmental Protection Agency administers
   certain federal statutes with administrative responsibility with respect
   to others being delegated to the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources
   ("DNR").  In addition, the DNR has jurisdiction over air and water quality
   standards associated with fossil fuel fired electric generation and the
   level and flow of water, safety and other matters pertaining to 
   hydroelectric generation.

            WPL is subject to the jurisdiction of the Nuclear Regulatory
   Commission ("NRC") with respect to the Kewaunee Nuclear Power Plant
   ("Kewaunee") and to the jurisdiction of the United States Department of
   Energy ("DOE") with respect to the disposal of nuclear fuel and other
   radioactive wastes from Kewaunee.

   Employees

            At year-end 1994, WPL employed 2,391 persons, of whom 1,924 were
   considered electric utility employees, 334 were considered gas utility
   employees and 133 were considered other utility employees.  WPL has a
   three-year contract with members of the International Brotherhood of
   Electrical Workers, Local 965, that is in effect until June 1, 1996.  The
   contract covers 1,647 of WPL's employees.

   ELECTRIC OPERATIONS:

   General

            WPL provides electricity in a service territory of approximately
   16,000 square miles in 35 counties in southern and central Wisconsin and
   four counties in northern Illinois.  As of December 31, 1994, WPL provided
   retail electric service to approximately 371,000 customers in 663 cities,
   villages and towns, and wholesale service to 27 municipal utilities, one
   privately owned utility, three rural electric cooperatives and to the
   Wisconsin Public Power, Inc. system, which provides retail service to nine
   communities.

            WPL owns 20,969 miles of electric transmission and distribution
   lines and 362 substations located adjacent to the communities served.

            WPL's electric sales are seasonal to some extent with the yearly
   peak normally occurring in the summer months.  WPL also experiences a
   smaller winter peak in December or January.

   Fuel

            In 1994, approximately 80 percent of WPL's net kilowatthour
   generation of electricity was fueled by coal and 17 percent by nuclear
   fuel (provided by WPL's 41 percent ownership interest in Kewaunee).  The
   remaining electricity generated was produced by hydroelectric, oil-fired
   and natural gas generation.

   Coal

            WPL anticipates that its average fuel costs will likely increase
   in the future, due to cost escalation provisions in existing coal and
   transportation contracts.

            The estimated coal requirements of WPL's generating units
   (including jointly-owned facilities) for the years 1995 through 2014 total
   about 167  million tons. Present coal supply contracts and transportation
   contracts (excluding extension options) cover approximately 14 percent and
   21 percent, respectively, of this estimated requirement.  WPL will seek
   renewals of existing contracts or additional sources of supply and
   negotiate new or additional transportation contracts to satisfy these
   requirements and to comply with environmental regulations.

   Nuclear

            Kewaunee is jointly-owned by WPL (41%), Wisconsin Public Service
   Corporation (41.2%) and Madison Gas & Electric Company (17.8%).  Wisconsin
   Public Service Corporation (WPSC) is the operating partner.  The plant
   began commercial operation in 1974.

            WPSC, the plant operator, is a member of the INPO, an
   organization of nuclear utilities which promotes excellence in all aspects
   of nuclear plant operations.  INPO manages the accreditation process for
   industry training programs, which includes periodic accreditation of those
   training programs by an independent organization, the NNAB.  All ten
   accredited training programs at Kewaunee are currently in good standing
   with the NNAB.

            The supply of nuclear fuel for the Kewaunee plant involves the
   mining and milling of uranium ore to uranium concentrates, the conversion
   of uranium concentrates to uranium hexafluoride, enrichment of the uranium
   hexafluoride and fabrication of the enriched uranium into usable fuel
   assemblies.  After a region (approximately one-third of the nuclear fuel
   assemblies in the reactor) of spent fuel is removed from the reactor, it
   is placed in temporary storage for cooling in a spent fuel pool at the
   plant site.  Permanent storage is addressed below.  Presently, there are
   no operating facilities in the United States reprocessing commercial
   nuclear fuel.  A discussion of the nuclear fuel supply for Kewaunee, which
   requires approximately 250,000 pounds of uranium concentrates per year
   follows:

         (a)   Requirements for uranium are met through spot market purchases
               of uranium.  In general, a four-year supply of uranium is
               maintained.

         (b)   Uranium hexafluoride, from inventory and from spot market
               purchases, was used to satisfy converted material requirements
               in 1994.  Conversion services relating to uranium hexafluoride
               will be purchased on the spot market in the future.

         (c)   In 1994, enriched uranium was procured from COGEMA, Inc.
               pursuant to a contract last amended in 1993.  Enrichment
               services were purchased from the Department of Energy (DOE),
               under the terms of the utility services contract.  This
               contract is in effect for the life of Kewaunee.  The
               partnership is committed to take 70 percent of its annual
               requirements in 1995, and in alternate years thereafter, from
               the DOE.

         (d)   Fuel fabrication requirements through June 15, 1995 are
               covered by contract.  This contract contains an option to
               allow extension of the contract through 1998.  WPSC is
               negotiating a contract for fuel fabrication extending through
               2001.

         (e)   Beyond the stated periods for Kewaunee, additional contracts
               for uranium concentrates, conversion to uranium hexafluoride,
               fabrication and spent fuel storage will have to be procured. 
               The prices for the foregoing are expected to increase.

        The National Energy Policy Act of 1992 provides that both the
   Federal government and the nuclear utilities fund the decontamination and
   decommissioning of the three federal gaseous diffusion plants in the
   United States.  This will require the owners of Kewaunee to pay
   approximately $15 million in current dollars over a period of 15 years. 
   WPL's share amounts to an annual payment of approximately $410,000.

        The steam generator tubes at the Kewaunee plant are susceptible to
   corrosion characteristics, a condition that has been experienced
   throughout the nuclear industry.  Annual inspections are performed to
   identify degraded tubes.  Degraded tubes are either repaired by sleeving
   or are removed from service by plugging.  The steam generators were
   designed with approximately 15 percent heat transfer margin, meaning that
   full power should be sustainable with the equivalent of 15 percent of the
   steam generator tubes plugged.  Tube plugging and the build-up of deposits
   on the tubes affect the heat-transfer capability of the steam generators
   to the point where eventually full power operation is not possible and
   there is a gradual decrease in the capacity of the plant.  As a result of
   this process, Kewaunee's capacity could be reduced by as much as 20% by
   the year 2013 when the current operating license expires.  Currently, the
   equivalent of approximately 12 percent of the tubes in the steam generator
   are plugged.  WPL and the joint-owners recently completed studies
   evaluating the economics of replacing the two steam generators at
   Kewaunee.  The studies resulted in the conclusion that the most prudent
   course of action is to continue operation of the existing steam
   generators.  WPL and the other joint-owners continue to evaluate
   appropriate strategies, including replacement, as well as continued
   operation of the steam generator without replacement.  WPL and the joint-
   owners also continue to fund the development of welded repair technology
   for steam generator tubes.  The plant is expected to be operated until at
   least 2013.  WPL and the joint-owners are also continuing to evaluate and
   implement initiatives to improve the performance of Kewaunee which already
   performs at above average levels for the industry.  These initiatives
   include conversion from a 12-month to an 18-month fuel cycle and numerous
   other cost reduction measures.  These initiatives have resulted in
   reductions in Kewaunee operating and maintenance costs since 1991.

        Physical decommissioning is expected to occur during the period 2014
   to 2021 with additional expenditures being incurred during the period 2022
   to 2050 related to the storage of spent nuclear fuel at the site. 
   Wisconsin utilities operating nuclear generating plants are required by
   the PSCW to establish external trust funds to provide for the
   decommissioning of such plants.  The market value of the investments in
   the funds established by WPL at December 31, 1994 totaled $51.8  million. 
   Additionally, in July 1994, the PSCW issued a generic order covering
   utilities that have nuclear generation.  This order standardizes the
   escalation assumptions to be used in determining nuclear decommissioning
   liabilities.

        WPL's share of the decommissioning costs is estimated to be $159
   million (in 1994 dollars, assuming the plant is operating through 2013)
   based on a 1992 study, using the immediate dismantlement method of
   decommissioning.  The undiscounted amount of decommissioning costs
   estimated to be expended between the years 2014 and 2050 is $1,016
   million.  After-tax earnings on the tax-qualified and nontax-qualified
   decommissioning funds are assumed to be 6.1% and 5.1%, respectively.  The
   future escalation rate is assumed to be 6.5%.

        Pursuant to the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982, the DOE has
   entered into a contract with WPL to accept, transport and dispose of spent
   nuclear fuel beginning no later than January 31, 1998.  It is likely that
   the DOE will delay the acceptance of spent nuclear fuel beyond 1998.  A
   fee to offset the costs of the DOE's disposal for all spent fuel used
   since April 7, 1983 has been assessed by the DOE at one mill per net
   kilowatthour of electricity generated and sold by the Kewaunee nuclear
   power plant.  An additional one-time fee was paid for the disposal of
   spent nuclear fuel used to generate electricity prior to April 7, 1983.

        Spent fuel is currently stored at Kewaunee.  The existing capacity
   of the spent fuel storage facility will enable storage of the projected
   quantities of spent fuel through April 2001.  WPL is currently evaluating
   options for the storage of additional quantities beyond 2001.  Several
   technologies are available.  An investment of approximately $2.5 million
   in the early 2000's could provide additional storage sufficient to meet
   spent fuel storage needs until the expiration of the current operating
   license.

        The Low-Level Radioactive Waste Policy Act of 1980 as amended in
   1985 provides that states may enter into compacts to provide for regional
   low-level waste disposal facilities.  Wisconsin is a member of the Midwest
   Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Compact.  The state of Ohio has
   been selected as the host state for the Midwest Compact and is proceeding
   with the preliminary phases of site selection.  In June of 1994, the
   Branwell, South Carolina disposal facility, which had been accepting
   Kewaunee low level radioactive waste materials, discontinued taking waste
   materials from outside its region.  WPL expects to have sufficient storage
   space of its own to satisfy low level radioactive waste disposal needs
   until the Ohio facility accepts low level radioactive waste materials.

   Recovery of Electric Fuel Costs

        In 1994 WPL did not automatically pass changes in electric fuel costs
   through to its Wisconsin retail electric customers.  Instead, rates were
   based on estimated per unit fuel costs established during rate proceedings
   and were not subject to change by fuel cost fluctuations unless actual
   costs were outside specified limits.  If actual fuel costs had varied from
   the estimated costs by more than +10 percent in a month or by more than
   +3 percent for the test year to date, rates could have been adjusted,
   based on the results of a special fuel cost hearing.  During 1994, fuel
   costs remained within the aforementioned parameters.  See Note 1F in the
   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included as part of Item 8
   hereto.

        WPL's wholesale rates and South Beloit's retail rates contain fuel
   adjustment clauses pursuant to which rates are adjusted monthly to reflect
   changes in the costs of fuel.

   
   


   GAS OPERATIONS:

   General

            As of December 31, 1994, WPL provided retail natural gas service
   to approximately 141,000 customers in 239 cities, villages and towns in
   22 counties in southern and central Wisconsin and one county in northern
   Illinois.

            WPL's gas sales follow a seasonal pattern.  There is an annual
   base load of gas used for heating, cooking, water heating and other
   purposes, with a large peak occurring during the heating season.

            In 1994, WPL continued to purchase significant volumes of lower
   cost gas directly from producers and marketers and transported those
   volumes over its two major pipeline supplier's systems.  This replaced
   higher cost gas historically purchased directly from the major pipeline
   systems.

   Gas Supplies

            During 1993, both of the interstate pipelines which serve WPL,
   ANR Pipeline and Northern Natural Pipeline, completed their transition to
   providing unbundled services as mandated by the FERC in its Order 636.  As
   a result, WPL now contracts with these two parties for various unbundled
   services such as firm and interruptible transportation, firm and
   interruptible storage service and "no-notice" service.  WPL and its gas
   customers have benefited from enhanced access to competitively priced gas
   supplies, and from more flexible transportation services.  As part of this
   restructuring, pipelines have sought and received authorization to recover
   from  their customers certain transition costs associated with
   restructuring.  WPL is passing these costs along to its retail gas
   customers pursuant to provisions of its retail gas tariffs.

            The gas industry, in general, was put to a severe test during
   the first quarter of 1994 in the wake of the coldest weather on record. 
   On January 18, 1994, the temperature averaged -17F in Madison, Wisconsin
   and did not rise above -7F.  WPL set a record peak day load of 251,194
   MMBTU.  Overall throughput for January was 23% above forecast.  Through
   effective use of transportation, supply, and storage contracts and by
   invoking tariff language allowing interruption and constraint of gas
   supplies to WPL's large industrial and commercial customers, WPL was able
   to maintain gas flows within the parameters imposed by its pipeline
   contracts.  By doing so, WPL avoided substantial penalty exposure from the
   pipeline companies for unauthorized use of gas.  WPL's large industrial
   and commercial customers served under interruptible rates moved to
   alternate fuel supplies during the periods of interruption and constraint. 
   These customers pay a discounted rate year round in exchange for WPL's
   right to interrupt service to their facilities.

            WPL's portfolio of natural gas contracts over the last several
   years is as follows:

   

            As the natural gas market continues to evolve, WPL continuously
   evaluates products and services provided by pipelines and gas suppliers to
   meet the changing needs of its firm and interruptible gas customers.

   
   


   Environmental Matters

            WPL cannot precisely forecast the effect of future environmental
   regulations by Federal, state and local authorities upon its generating,
   transmission and other facilities, or its operations, but has taken steps
   to anticipate the future while meeting the requirements of current
   environmental regulations.  The Clean Air Act Amendments of 1977 and
   subsequent amendments to the Clean Air Act, as well as the new laws
   affecting the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes along
   with clean air legislation passed in 1990 by Congress, could affect the
   siting, construction and operating costs of both present and future
   generating units.

            Under the Federal Clean Water Act, National Pollutant Discharge
   Elimination System permits for generating station discharge into water
   ways are required to be obtained from the DNR to which the permit program
   has been delegated.  These permits must be periodically renewed.  WPL has
   obtained such permits for all of its generating stations or has filed
   timely applications for renewals of such permits.

            Air quality regulations promulgated by the DNR in accordance
   with Federal standards impose statewide restrictions on the emission of
   particulates, sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and other air pollutants and
   require permits from the  DNR for the operation of emission sources.  WPL
   currently has the necessary permits to operate its fossil-fueled
   generating facilities.  With the passage of the new Federal Clean Air Act
   Amendments, the states are required to include these provisions into their
   permit requirements.  WPL has submitted timely Title V permit applications
   in compliance with schedules set forth by the regulators.  The operating
   permits, when issued, will consolidate all existing air permit conditions
   and regulatory requirements into one permit for each facility.  Permits
   may be issued in late 1995 or 1996.  Until such time, the facilities will
   continue to operate under their existing permit conditions.

            Pursuant to Section 144.386(2)of the Wisconsin Statutes, WPL has
   submitted data and plans for 1995 sulfur dioxide emissions compliance. 
   Actual 1994 emissions were reported to the DNR.  WPL is currently in
   compliance with this state requirement.  WPL will make any necessary
   operational changes in fuel types and power plant dispatch to comply with
   the system emissions limit of 1.2 pounds SO2 per million BTU.

            WPL's compliance strategy for Wisconsin's sulfur dioxide law
   (discussed above) and the Federal Clear Air Act Amendments required plant
   upgrades at its generating facilities.  The majority of these projects
   were completed in 1993.  WPL has installed continuous emission monitoring
   systems at all of its coal fired boilers in compliance with Federal
   requirements.  Monitoring for sulfur dioxide was also required by Title IV
   of the Federal Clean Air Act at WPL's South Fond du Lac combustion turbine
   site.  These requirements were also met.  Additional monitoring systems
   for nitrogen oxides will be required by January 1, 1996 at the combustion
   turbine site.  WPL will install these monitors in 1995.  No significant
   investments are anticipated at this time to meet the requirements of the
   Federal Clean Air Act Amendments.

            Pursuant to Section 311(j)(5) of the Clean Water Act, WPL has
   submitted facility response plans for the Rock River generating station
   and the South Fond du Lac combustion turbine site.  The plans address
   pollution prevention and spill response activities for those facilities
   with capacity to store in excess of one million gallons of oil.

            WPL maintains licenses for all its ash disposal facilities and
   regularly reports to the DNR groundwater data and quantities of ash
   landfilled or reused.  The landfills are operated according to a Plan of
   Operation approved by the DNR.

            WPL's accumulated pollution abatement expenditures through
   December 31, 1994, totaled approximately $133 million.  The major
   expenditures consist of about $60 million for the installation of
   electrostatic precipitators for the purpose of reducing particulate
   emissions from WPL's coal-fired generating stations and approximately
   $73 million for other pollution abatement equipment at the Columbia, Edge-
   water, Kewaunee, Nelson Dewey, Rock River and Blackhawk plants. 
   Expenditures during 1994 totalled approximately $5 million.  Estimated
   future  pollution abatement expenditures total $1.5 million through 1996. 
   WPL's estimated pollution abatement expenditures are subject to continuing
   review and are revised from time to time due to escalation of construction
   costs, changes in construction plans and changes in environmental
   regulations.

            See "Electric Operations - Fuel" for information concerning the
   disposal of spent nuclear fuel and high level nuclear waste.

   Manufactured Gas Plant Sites

            Historically, WPL has owned 11 properties that have been
   associated with the production of manufactured gas.  Currently, WPL owns
   five of these sites, three are owned by municipalities, and the remaining
   three are owned by private companies.  In 1989, WPL initiated
   investigation of these manufactured gas plant sites.  The DNR has been
   involved in reviewing investigation plans and has received ongoing reports
   regarding these investigations.

            In 1992, and into the beginning of 1993, WPL continued its
   investigations and studies.  WPL confirmed that there was no contamination
   at two of the sites and received a close out letter from the DNR related
   to one of those sites and requested a close out letter for the other site. 
   Additionally, the investigation of historical records at a third site
   indicated a minimal likelihood of any significant environmental impacts. 
   In February 1993, WPL completed cost estimates for the environmental
   remediation of the eight remaining sites.  The results of this analysis
   indicate that during the next 34 years, WPL will expend approximately $81
   million for feasibility studies, data collection, soil remediation
   activities, groundwater research and groundwater remediation activities,
   including construction of slurry containment walls and the installation of
   groundwater pump and treatment facilities.  This estimate was based on
   various assumptions, and is subject to continuous review and revision by
   management.

            The cost estimate set forth above assumes 4 percent average
   inflation over a 34 year period.  The cost estimate also contemplates that
   primarily groundwater pump and treatment activities will take place after
   1998 through and including 2027.  During this time, WPL estimates that it
   will incur average annual costs of $2.0 million to complete the planned
   groundwater remediation activities.

            With respect to rate recovery of these costs, the PSCW has
   approved a five year amortization of the unamortized balance of
   environmental costs expended to date.

            In addition, WPL is pursuing insurance recovery for the costs of
   remediating these sites and is investigating to determine whether there
   are other parties who may be responsible for some of the clean-up costs.

            Through 1994, management has continued its oversight of the
   issues related to the above manufactured gas plant sites without
   significant revision to the above estimates and assumptions.

            Based on the present regulatory record at the PSCW, management
   believes that future costs of remediating these manufactured gas plant
   sites will be recovered in rates.

                                       HDC

            Incorporated in 1988, HDC is the parent company of all of the
   Company's nonutility businesses.  HDC and its principal subsidiaries are
   engaged in business development in three major areas: (1) environmental
   engineering and consulting, (2) affordable housing, and (3) energy
   services.

            At year-end 1994, HDC employed approximately 1,444 persons: 839
   in the area of environmental engineering and consulting, 149 in the area
   of affordable housing, 439 in the area of energy services, and 17 at the
   HDC level.

   ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING AND CONSULTING:

            WPL acquired RMT, Inc. in 1983.  It subsequently became a wholly
   owned subsidiary of HDC in 1988.  In 1992, HDC transferred its ownership
   of RMT to Environmental Holding Company ("EHC), a wholly owned subsidiary
   of HDC and the parent company for its environmental engineering and
   consulting activities.  RMT is a Madison, Wisconsin based environmental
   and engineering consulting company that serves clients nationwide in a
   variety of industrial segment markets.  The most significant of these are
   foundries, chemical companies, pulp and paper processors, and other
   manufacturers.  RMT specializes in solid and hazardous waste management,
   ground water quality protection, industrial design and hygiene
   engineering, laboratory services, and air and water pollution control. 
   RMT owns and operates chemical and soil-testing laboratories in Madison
   and leases biological-testing laboratories in Greenville, South Carolina.

            EHC acquired Jones & Neuse, Inc. ("J&N") in 1993.  J&N is based
   in Austin, Texas and serves EHC's gulf coast region.  J&N has four
   additional Texas offices, a Louisiana office and a Mexican subsidiary (ABC
   Estudios y Projectos).  It provides full capabilities in air quality,
   water quality, hazardous and solid waste engineering, and remedial
   projects.

            In addition to J&N, EHC acquired Hydroscience, Inc.
   ("Hydroscience") and Four Nines, Inc. ("Four Nines") in 1993.  In 1994,
   Hydroscience and Four Nines were merged into RMT.

            In 1994, RMT acquired Braithwaite Consultants, Inc.
   ("Braithwaite"), located in Ann Arbor, Michigan.  Braithwaite, combined
   with the Lansing, MI office of RMT, will primarily serve the Michigan
   marketplace.

   AFFORDABLE HOUSING:

            Formed by HDC in 1988, Heartland Properties, Inc. ("HPI") is
   responsible for the development and management of HDC's real estate and
   housing investments.  HPI's primary focus has been the development,
   construction, and management of affordable housing and historic
   rehabilitation properties in Wisconsin, Indiana, Michigan, and Illinois. 
   As of December 31, 1994, HPI's level of investment in housing was
   approximately $98 million, providing nearly 2,250 units to a diverse group
   of residents.

            Toolkit Property Management Systems, Inc. ("Toolkit"), organized
   in 1993, provides property management services for many of HPI's housing
   projects.

            To facilitate HPI's development and financing efforts, HDC
   incorporated Capital Square Financial Corporation ("Capital Square") in
   1992 and Heartland Capital Company LLC ("HCC") in 1994 to provide mortgage
   banking services and construction financing services, respectively, to the
   affordable housing market.

            Heartland Retirement Services, Inc. ("HRS"), organized in 1993,
   provides a comprehensive range of housing related products for the fastest
   growing segment of the American population, older adults.

   ENERGY SERVICES:

            A&C Enercom, Inc. ("A&C") was acquired by HDC in 1993.  A&C, a
   utility service company, is based in Atlanta, Georgia and provides a
   variety of services including marketing and demand side management
   primarily to public electric and gas utilitiy companies.

            Entec Consulting, Inc. ("Entec"), acquired by HDC in 1993, is a
   Madison, Wisconsin based firm that provides full-service consulting to the
   utility industry for power generation computer software programs.

            In 1994, A&C sold Ecogroup, Inc.  Ecogroup, a Phoenix, Arizona
   based company initially acquired by A&C in 1993, provides energy and
   environmental programs primarily for the electric and gas utility
   industry.

            HDC has begun an assessment of the strategic fit of its utility
   service business and is considering various alternatives, including the
   possible sale of part or all of this business.


   ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

   WPL

            The following table gives information with respect to electric
   generating facilities of WPL (including WPL's portion of those facilities
   jointly-owned).

   

            The maximum net hourly peak load on WPL's electric system was
   2,002,000 kw and occurred on June 16, 1994.  At the time of such peak
   load, 2,386,000 kw were produced by generating facilities operated by WPL
   (including other company shared jointly-owned facilities).  WPL delivered
   934,000 kw of power and received 540,000 kw of power from external
   sources.  During the year ended December 31, 1994, about 84.4 percent of
   WPL's total kilowatthour requirements were generated by company-owned and
   jointly-owned facilities and the remaining 15.6 percent was purchased. 
   Substantially all of WPL's facilities are subject to the lien of its first
   mortgage bond indenture.

   HDC:

            The following table gives information with respect to rental
   properties associated with HPI's affordable housing and historic
   rehabilitation project developments as of December 31, 1994.

     Location            Housing Development     Resident Type        Amount
                                                               (In Thousands)
   Property:

     Antigo, WI          The Depot               Families            $ 2,219
     Appleton, WI        Lincoln Mills           Families/Elderly      4,495
     Appleton, WI        Ravine Mills            Families/Elderly      2,510
     Appleton, WI        The Mills II            Families/Elderly      7,394
     DePere, WI          Lawton Foundry          Families              4,354
     Madison, WI         The Avenue              Disabled/Families     2,899
     Madison, WI         YWCA                    Women & Homeless      5,593
     Marinette, WI       Dunlap Square           Families/Elderly      8,974
     Marshfield, WI      The Woodlands           Families/Elderly      2,615
     McFarland, WI       The Cottages            Families/Elderly      2,390
     Sheboygan Falls, WI Jung Apartments         Families              3,628
     Sheboygan, WI       Sunnyside Townhouses    Families              2,543
     Sheboygan, WI       Brickner Woolen Mills   Families/Elderly      3,283
     Sun Prairie, WI     Vandenburg Heights      Families              2,997
     Verona, WI          Sugar Creek             Elderly               3,027
     Various             Other                   Families, Elderly,
                                                 Singles, Disabled
                                                 & Homeless           45,834
                                                                     -------
   Total property                                                    104,755

   Accumulated depreciation                                           (8,138)
                                                                     -------
   Net property                                                      $96,617
                                                                     =======

            Occupancy rates in the 60 properties/investments owned by HPI
   averaged 94 percent during 1994.

            HDC has no other properties which it considers to be material in
   relation to the Company's consolidated financial statements.

   ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

            There are no material pending legal proceedings, other than
   ordinary routine litigation incidental to the business, to which the
   Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or to which any of their
   property is subject.

                              ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

            The information required by Item 3 is included in this Form 10-K
   in Note 11c to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which 
   information is incorporated herein by reference.

                                  RATE MATTERS

            The information required by Item 3 is included in Items 6 and 7
   of this Form 10-K within the Management's Discussion and Analysis of
   Financial Condition and Results of Operations narrative under the caption
   "Rates and Regulatory Matters."

   

   ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

              No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during
   the fourth quarter of 1994.

   EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

              Erroll B. Davis, Jr, 50, was elected President on January 17,
   1990 and Chief Executive Officer, effective July 1, 1990 of the Company. 
   He has served as President and Chief Executive Officer of WPL since
   August 1, 1988.  He has served as a director of the Company since March
   1988.

              Lance W. Ahearn, 46, was elected President of HDC effective
   April 1, 1990 and Chief Executive Officer effective May 4, 1990.  Prior
   to joining HDC, he held several management positions with Bucyrus Erie
   Company, Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

              Edward M. Gleason, 54, was elected Vice President, Treasurer
   and Corporate Secretary of the Company effective October 3, 1993.  He
   previously served as Vice President-Finance and Treasurer of WPL since May
   1986.  Mr. Gleason functions as the principal financial officer of the
   Company.

              William D. Harvey, 45, was appointed Senior Vice President of
   WPL effective October 3, 1993.  He previously served as Vice President-
   Natural Gas and General Counsel since August 1992, Vice President-General
   Counsel since October 1, 1990 and Vice President-Associate General Counsel
   since July 1986.  Prior to joining WPL, he was a member of the law firm
   of Wheeler, Van Sickle, Anderson, Norman and Harvey.

              Eliot G. Protsch, 41, was appointed Senior Vice President of
   WPL effective October 3, 1993.  He previously served as Vice President-
   Customer Services and Sales since August 1992, Vice President and General
   Manager-Energy Services since January 1989 and District Manager, Dane
   County, since October 1986.

              A.J. (Nino) Amato, 43, was appointed Senior Vice President of
   WPL effective October 3, 1993.  He previously served as Vice President - 
   Marketing and Strategic Planning of WPL since December 1992, Vice
   President - Marketing and Communications of WPL since January 1989 and
   Director of Electric Marketing and Customer Service since October 1988. 
   He had been President of Forward Wisconsin, Inc. from 1987 to 1988.
   
           Daniel A. Doyle, 36, was appointed Vice President-Finance,
   Controller and Treasurer of WPL on December 25, 1994.  He previously
   served as Controller and Treasurer of WPL since October 3, 1993.  He has
   served as Controller of WPL since July 1992.  Prior to joining WPL, he was
   Controller of Central Vermont Public Service Corporation since December
   1988.

              Steve F. Price, 42, was appointed Assistant Corporate Secretary
   and Assistant Treasurer on April 15, 1992.  He had been Cash Management
   Supervisor since December 1987.  He was also appointed Assistant Corporate
   Secretary of WPL on April 15, 1992.

   NOTE:      All ages are as of December 31, 1994.  None of the executive
              officers listed above is related to any director of the Board
              or nominee for director of the Company.

              Executive officers of the Company have no definite terms of
              office and serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors.


                                     PART II

   ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
   MATTERS

   The Company's Common Stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange.  Quarterly
   Price Ranges and Dividends with respect to the Common Stock are as follows:

   

   Year-end stock price:  $27 3/8

           At December 31, 1994, there were approximately 37,049 holders of
   record of the Company's common stock including underlying holders in the
   Company's Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan.

           WPL's retail rate order effective January 1, 1995, requires WPL to
   maintain a utility common equity level of 51.93 percent of total utility
   capitalization during the two year test year ending December 31, 1996.  
   In addition, the PSCW ordered that it must approve the payment of dividends
   by WPL to the Company that are in excess of the level forecasted for 1995
   ($58.1 million), if such dividends would reduce WPL's average common equity
   ratio below 51.93 percent.

   ITEMS 6 AND 7.    SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA AND MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND
                     ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
                     OPERATIONS

   WPL HOLDINGS, INC.

   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
   Operations

   

   1994 COMPARED WITH 1993

   OVERVIEW

   Earnings per share of WPL Holdings, Inc. (the "Company") common stock
   increased to $2.13 in 1994 compared with $2.11 in 1993.  Earnings for 1994
   were significantly affected by two non-recurring items from the Company's
   utility subsidiary Wisconsin Power and Light Company ("WPL").  These items
   were the reversal of a coal contract penalty in the 1st quarter and costs
   associated with early retirement and severance programs which primarily
   occurred in the 4th quarter.  Both of these items are discussed in the
   "Other Events" section of Management's Discussion and Analysis.  The
   following breakout presents the recurring aspects of 1994's operations.

                                                 1994          1993

     Earnings per share, as reported            $2.13         $2.11
     Less: Increase in earnings from
           reversal of coal contract
           penalty                               (.16)         ( - )
     Add:  Decrease in earnings from
           costs associated with early
           retirement and severance
           programs                               .27           .04
                                                -----         -----
     Earnings per share before the 
       above non-recurring items                $2.24         $2.15
                                                =====         =====

   The increase in the "Earnings per share before the above non-recurring
   items" primarily reflects an increase in operating earnings from WPL.  The
   increase was somewhat offset by program start-up costs associated with
   expansion of the affordable housing and energy services businesses of the
   Company's non-regulated subsidiary, Heartland Development Corp. ("HDC").

   

   WPL's electric margin increased during 1994 compared to 1993.  The primary
   factor was a 3.8 percent retail rate increase effective October 1, 1993. 
   Strong economic conditions in the industrial and commercial customer
   classes contributed higher sales and customer growth.  A colder than
   normal January and a very warm mid-September offset relatively mild summer
   conditions in July and August making 1994 a relatively average year in
   terms of degree day impacts on sales volumes.  Electric production fuel
   costs were stable in 1994.  The volume of purchased power increased as a
   result of WPL's efforts to conserve coal inventories during a rail strike
   in the 3rd quarter of 1994.  See "Other Events" for details.

   

   Gas margin increased in 1994 from 1993 primarily based on two factors: 1)
   a 1.4 percent retail rate increase effective October 1, 1993 and, 2) an
   increase in customers in the higher rate firm service resulted in a more
   favorable sales mix.  The overall cost of purchased gas declined
   reflecting WPL's effective use of opportunities on the gas spot market.
    
   Fees, Rents and Other Operating Revenues ("Other Revenues")

   Environmental services revenues increased due to continued strong demand. 
   Other revenues increased due to an increased number of affordable housing
   project syndications and the inclusion of the full year of revenues in
   1994 for A&C Enercom Consultants, Inc. that was acquired in February,
   1993.

   Other Operation Expense

   The increase in other operation expense is primarily related to the early
   retirement and severance programs discussed later in the "Other Events"
   section and increased program start-up costs associated with the expansion
   of the Company's affordable housing and energy services businesses. 
   Offsetting these costs were reductions in WPL's operating costs resulting
   from the ongoing reengineering of its processes.

   Maintenance

   Maintenance expense decreased between years due to the variation in the
   timing and extent of WPL's maintenance outages at its generating
   facilities between years.  Secondarily, a severe storm in the summer of
   1993 increased 1993's maintenance expense related to service restoration.

   Depreciation and Amortization

   Depreciation expense increased, principally reflecting increased property
   additions, and increased decommissioning costs for WPL.

   Other Income and (Deductions)

   Other income increased due to the reversal of a coal contract penalty
   discussed later in the "Other Events" section.

   Income Taxes

   Income taxes increased between years primarily due to higher taxable
   income.

   Affordable housing tax credits declined as HPI reduced its ownership
   interests in qualifying properties late in 1993, placing more emphasis on
   the generation of syndication and development fees and retaining only
   small ownership interests in additional properties.

   1993 COMPARED WITH 1992

   OVERVIEW

   Earnings per share of the Company common stock increased to $2.11 in 1993
   compared with $2.10 in 1992.  The increase in earnings primarily reflected
   an increase in earnings from WPL.  The principle factors leading to
   increased earnings included warmer summer weather and lower electric fuel
   costs per kWh which yielded higher electric margins for WPL.  These
   increases were somewhat offset by increased depreciation expense resulting
   from additional investment in utility plant and property additions, a
   change in the mix of gas sales from higher margin sales to lower margin
   sales, the increase in the Federal corporate tax rate from 34 percent to
   35 percent and a one-time 4-cent-per-share charge associated with a
   voluntary separation program for the executive management group at the
   utility.

   The Company's nonregulated subsidiary, HDC, contributed to earnings
   through its principal businesses: 1) environmental engineering and
   consulting, 2) affordable housing, and 3) energy products and services.

   


   WPL's electric margin in dollars increased during 1993 compared with 1992
   due to increased demand for electricity brought on by warmer summer
   weather.  Residential customers, being the most weather sensitive,
   experienced the most significant increases.  Wisconsin's strong economy
   kept the commercial and industrial classes growing steadily.  These
   increases were coupled with declining electric production fuel costs per
   kWh.  The decrease in electric production fuels was due to WPL's
   aggressive pursuit of additional spot coal purchase opportunities as its
   longer term contracts began to expire.  Additionally, a highly competitive
   rail transportation environment significantly reduced the cost of
   transporting the coal.  Also, lower cost purchased power became available
   due to excess capacity in the bulk-power market.

   

   WPL's gas revenues for 1992 were affected by the recognition of a $4.9
   million before-tax refund to its natural gas customers resulting from an
   adjustment in the calculation of the purchased gas adjustment clause. 
   Without the impact of this revenue adjustment, comparative gas margins
   would have  declined for 1993 compared with 1992.

   The overall increases in gas revenues and purchased gas costs between
   years resulted primarily from increased volumes procured on behalf of
   transportation customers.  This had the impact of decreasing margins as a
   percentage of total revenues.  A change in the mix of gas sales from
   higher margin residential sales to lower margin sales also moved margins
   downward. Offsetting this decline, Wisconsin's strong economy enabled
   growth in the commercial and industrial classes, and there was also some
   overall increase in the demand for natural gas due to colder weather.

   Fees, Rents and Other Operating Revenues ("Other Revenues")

   Other revenues increased between years as a result of RMT's and HPI's
   growth in their respective businesses and the result of acquisitions in
   the environmental and energy-services businesses.

   Other Operation Expense

   Other operation expense also increased as a result of the above factors. 
   An additional increase resulted from higher WPL employee benefit expense
   (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 7).  These increases
   were offset somewhat by decreases in WPL's conservation program
   expenditures and decreases in fees associated with the sale of WPL's
   accounts receivable due to a decline in interest rates.  Additionally,
   WPL's cost management efforts have helped control annual inflationary
   pressures on general and administrative costs.

   Depreciation and Amortization

   Depreciation and amortization expense increased, principally reflecting
   increased property additions and the commencement of deferred charge
   amortizations approved in WPL's rate orders received in December 1992 and
   October 1993.  The most significant amortizations include the amortization
   related to an acquisition adjustment which resulted from the purchase of
   transmission facilities and the amortization of costs incurred related to
   the remediation of former manufactured gas plant sites (see Notes to the
   Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 11).
    
   Allowance for Funds Used During Construction ("AFUDC")

   Total AFUDC increased in 1993 compared with 1992, reflecting the greater
   amounts of construction work in progress including the costs associated
   with WPL's construction of two 86-megawatt combustion-turbine generators.

   Interest Expense

   Interest expense on debt decreased between years, primarily reflecting the
   benefits of WPL's refinancing efforts.

   LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

   Rates and Regulatory Matters

   On December 9, 1994, the Public Service Commission of Wisconsin ("PSCW")
   issued rate order UR-109, effective for a two-year period beginning
   January 1, 1995.  The order included the following decisions on WPL's
   retail rate application as filed on February 4, 1994:  1) electric
   revenues will be decreased by approximately $12.3 million (2.8 percent)
   annually, 2) natural gas revenues will be increased by approximately $.7
   million (.5 percent) annually, 3) return on common equity will be 11.5
   percent versus WPL's previously allowed return on equity of 11.6 percent.

   Further, the PSCW approved certain incentive programs described below:

   1.   The electric fuel adjustment mechanism was eliminated.  In its
        absence, WPL will benefit from reductions in fuel cost.  Conversely,
        WPL will be exposed to increases in fuel costs.

   2.   The automatic purchased gas adjustment clause was also eliminated. 
        In the future, the fluctuations in the commodity cost of gas above or
        below a prescribed commodity price index will serve to increase or
        decrease WPL's margin on gas sales.  Fixed demand costs are excluded
        from the incentive program.  Both benefits and exposures are subject
        to ratepayer sharing provisions, which are capped at $1.1 million.

   3.   In order to promote air quality and reliability, there are SO2
        emissions and service reliability incentive clauses.  Positive
        incentive available under these clauses is a pre-tax  $1.5 million
        for the SO2 emissions and a pre-tax $.5 million for the service
        reliability.  WPL's earnings are also negatively exposed for equal
        amounts.   Since WPL is allowed to collect all revenues under these
        programs in advance, up to $4.0 million annually of pre-tax revenue
        may be collected subject to refund upon final determination of
        performance under this program.

   Industry Outlook

   The PSCW has recently opened a formal docket initiating an inquiry into
   the future structure of the electric utility industry in Wisconsin.  The
   goals of Wisconsin utility regulation and the principles to be used in
   choosing among alternative proposals have been identified.  WPL has
   submitted its preferred structure which, in summary form, calls for open
   access to transmission and distribution systems and a competitive power
   generation market place.  It is not possible at this time to predict the
   outcome of these proceedings.

   Financing and Capital Structure

   The level of short-term borrowings fluctuates based on seasonal corporate
   needs, the timing of long-term financing and capital market conditions. 
   The Company's operating subsidiaries generally issue short-term debt to
   provide interim financing of construction and capital expenditures in
   excess of available internally generated funds.  The subsidiaries
   periodically reduce their outstanding short-term debt through the issuance
   of long-term debt and through the Company's additional investment in their
   common equity.  To maintain flexibility in its capital structure and to
   take advantage of favorable short-term rates, the Company also uses
   proceeds from the sales of accounts receivable and unbilled revenues to
   finance a portion of its long-term cash needs.  The Company anticipates
   that short-term debt funds will continue to be available at reasonable
   costs due to strong ratings by independent utility analysts and rating
   services.  WPL commercial paper has been rated A-1+ by Standard & Poor's
   Corp. and P-1 by Moody's Investors Service.

   Bank lines of credit of $97.5 million at December 31, 1994 are available
   to support these borrowings.

   The Company's capitalization at December 31, 1994, including the current
   maturities of long-term debt, variable rate demand bonds and short-term
   debt, consisted of 48.8 percent common equity, 4.9 percent preferred stock
   and 46.3 percent long-term debt.  The common-equity-to-total
   capitalization ratio at December 31, 1994 increased to 48.8 percent from
   47.9 percent at December 31, 1993.

   The retail rate order effective January 1, 1995, requires WPL to maintain
   a utility common equity level of 51.93 percent of total utility
   capitalization during the two-year test year ending December 31, 1996.  In
   addition, the PSCW ordered that it must approve the payment of dividends
   by WPL to the Company that are in excess of the level forecasted for 1995
   ($58.1 million), if such dividends would reduce WPL's average common
   equity ratio below 51.93 percent.

   Capital Requirements

   The Company's largest subsidiary, WPL, is capital-intensive and requires
   large investments in long-lived assets.  Therefore, the Company's most
   significant capital requirements relate to WPL construction expenditures. 
   Estimated capital requirements of WPL for the next five years are as
   follows:

   


   Included in the construction expenditure estimates, in addition to the
   recurring additions and improvements to the distribution and transmission
   systems, are the following: 1) expenditures for managing and controlling
   electric line losses and for the electric delivery system that will reduce
   electric line losses and enhance WPL's interconnection capability with
   other utilities; 2) expenditures related to environmental compliance
   issues, including the installation of additional emissions-monitoring
   equipment and coal-handling equipment; 3) expenditures associated with the
   construction of an 86-megawatt combustion-turbine generator expected to
   become operational in 1996.

   The Company's capital requirements may also be impacted by decisions 
   relating to the Kewaunee Nuclear Power Plant ("Kewaunee").  The steam
   generator tubes at Kewaunee are susceptible to corrosion characteristics,
   a condition that has been experienced throughout the nuclear industry.  
   Annual inspections are performed to identify degraded tubes.  Degraded
   tubes are either repaired by sleeving or are removed from service by
   plugging.  The steam generators were designed with an approximately 15 
   percent heat transfer margin, meaning that full power should be 
   sustainable with the equivalent of 15 percent of the steam generator 
   tubes plugged.  Tube plugging and the build-up of deposits on the tubes 
   affect the heat-transfer capability of the steam generators to the point 
   where eventually full-power operation is not possible and there is a 
   gradual decrease in the capacity of the plant.  The plant's capacity 
   could be reduced by as much as 20% by the year 2013 when the current 
   operating license expires.  Currently, the equivalent of approximately 
   12 percent of the tubes in the steam generators are plugged.  WPL and 
   the joint-owners recently completed studies evaluating the economics of 
   replacing the two steam generators at Kewaunee.  The studies resulted 
   in the conclusion that the most prudent course of action is to continue 
   operation of the existing steam generators.  WPL and the other joint-
   owners continue to evaluate appropriate strategies, including
   replacement, as well as continued operation of the steam generators
   without replacement.  WPL and the joint owners also continue to fund the
   development of welded repair technology for steam generator tubes.  The
   plant is expected to be operated until at least 2013.  WPL and the joint-
   owners are also continuing to evaluate and implement initiatives to
   improve the performance of Kewaunee, which already performs at above-
   average levels for the industry.  These initiatives include conversion
   from a 12-month to an 18-month fuel cycle and numerous other cost
   reduction measures.  These initiatives have resulted in reductions in
   Kewaunee operating and maintenance costs since 1991.

   HDC has expanded its energy related products and services business and its
   environmental services through investment in existing businesses during
   1994.  In addition to its investment in affordable housing,  HPI continues
   to market its affordable housing expertise by expanding its business to
   provide assistance to other corporate/public investors in their
   development, operation and financing of affordable housing projects.

   HDC has begun an assessment of the strategic fit of its utility service
   business and is considering various alternatives, including the possible
   sale of part or all of this business.  

   In 1994, A&C Enercom sold its EcoGroup operations.  EcoGroup, a Phoenix,
   Arizona based company initially acquired by A&C Enercom in 1993, provided
   energy and environmental programs primarily for the electric and gas
   utility industry.

   Capital Resources

   One of the Company's objectives is to finance construction expenditures
   through internally generated funds supplemented, when required, by outside
   financing.  With this objective in place, the Company has financed an
   average of 85 percent of its construction expenditures during the last
   five years from internal sources.  However, during the next five years,
   the Company expects this percentage to be reduced primarily due to the
   continuation of major construction expenditures and the maturity of $64
   million of WPL first mortgage bonds.  External financing sources such as
   the issuance of long-term debt, common stock and short-term borrowings
   will be used by the Company to finance the remaining construction
   expenditure requirements for this period.  Current forecasts are that
   $40.5 million of additional equity and $65 million of long-term debt will
   be issued over the next three years. 

   In 1994, the Company increased its dividends by 1.1 percent and issued
   337,980 new shares of common stock through its Dividend Reinvestment and
   Stock Purchase Plan and 401(k) Savings Plan, generating proceeds of $9.7
   million.

   INFLATION

   Under current rate-making methodologies prescribed by the various
   commissions that regulate WPL, projected or forecasted operating costs,
   including the impacts of inflation, are incorporated into WPL revenue
   requirements.  Accordingly, the impacts of inflation on WPL are currently
   mitigated.  Although rates will be held flat until at least 1997,
   management expects that any impact of inflation will be mitigated by
   customer growth and productivity improvements.  Inflationary impacts on
   the non-regulated businesses are not anticipated to be material to the
   Company.

   OTHER EVENTS

   Coal Contract Penalty

   In November 1989, the PSCW concluded that WPL did not properly administer
   a coal contract, resulting in an assessment to compensate ratepayers for
   excess fuel costs having been incurred.  As a result, WPL recorded a
   reserve in 1989 that had an after-tax affect of reducing 1989 net income
   by $4.9 million.  The PSCW decision was found to represent unlawful
   retroactive rate-making by both the Dane County Circuit Court and the
   Wisconsin Court of Appeals.  The case was then appealed to the Wisconsin
   Supreme Court.

   In January, 1994, the Wisconsin Supreme Court affirmed the decisions of
   the Dane County Circuit Court and Wisconsin Court of Appeals.  In
   management's opinion, all avenues for appeal have been exhausted.  As a
   result, WPL reversed the entire reserve and was also allowed to collect
   interest on amounts of the penalty previously refunded to ratepayers.  The
   reversal of the reserve plus interest had an after-tax affect of
   increasing net income in 1994 by $5.3 million.

   Early Retirement and Severance Programs

   Given the expectation of increasing competition, WPL has continued to
   reengineer its processes to implement cost efficiencies in its operations. 
   In connection with these efforts, WPL offered voluntary early retirement
   programs and voluntary severance programs to affected employees in 1994
   and 1993.  These programs primarily closed late in the fourth quarter of
   1994 and 1993.

   In terms of pre-tax costs, the early retirement programs totalled $9.8
   million and the severance programs totalled $3.9 million for a grand total
   of $13.7 million in 1994.  For 1993, program costs totalled $1.8 million.

   Coal Transporter's Strike

   One of WPL's major coal transporters experienced a labor strike during the
   third quarter of 1994.  During the term of the strike (55 days), WPL's
   ability to receive coal from its suppliers was impaired, which required
   WPL to use some of its existing coal reserves and to purchase additional
   power.  On August 29, 1994, President Clinton, acting under the Railway
   Labor Act, forced a temporary end (the "cooling off period") to the strike
   by ordering the railroad union employees back to work and establishing a
   three member Presidential Emergency Board to draft a recommended
   settlement.  Railroad management and the United Transportation Union have
   subsequently settled on a contract.  As of December 31, 1994, the existing
   and anticipated financial impact on WPL's operating results was not
   material.

   Environmental

   WPL cannot precisely forecast the effect of future environmental
   regulations by federal, state and local authorities upon its generating,
   transmission and other facilities, or its operations, but has taken steps
   to anticipate the future while meeting the requirements of current
   environmental regulations.  The Clean Air Act Amendments of 1977 and
   subsequent amendments to the Clean Air Act, as well as the new laws
   affecting the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes, along
   with the clean air legislation passed in 1990 by Congress, could affect
   the siting, construction and operating costs of both present and future
   generating units.

   Under the Federal Clean Water Act, National Pollutant Discharge
   Elimination System permits for generating station discharge into water
   ways are required to be obtained from the Wisconsin Department of Natural
   Resources (DNR).  WPL has obtained such permits for all of its generating
   stations or has filed timely applications for renewals.

   Air quality regulations promulgated by the DNR in accordance with federal
   standards impose statewide restrictions on the emission of particulates,
   sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and other air pollutants and require
   permits from the DNR for the operation of emission sources.  WPL currently
   has the necessary permits to operate its fossil-fueled generating
   facilities.  However, beginning in 1994, new permits were required for all
   major facilities in Wisconsin.  WPL's Columbia Generating facility
   submitted a permit application on May 1, 1994.  The remaining facilities
   will be addressed in early 1995.

   WPL's compliance strategy for Wisconsin's 1993 sulfur dioxide law and the
   Federal Clean Air Act Amendments required plant upgrades at its generating
   facilities.  The majority of these projects were completed in 1993 and
   1994.  WPL has installed continuous emissions monitoring systems at all of
   its coal fired boilers.  No additional costs for compliance with these
   acid-rain-prevention requirements are anticipated at this time.

   Also see Note 11c in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
   for a discussion of WPL's manufactured gas plant sites.

   ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA


   
   REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

   To WPL Holdings, Inc.:

   We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and
   statements of capitalization of WPL HOLDINGS, INC. (a Wisconsin
   corporation) and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1994 and 1993, and the
   related consolidated statements of income, common shareowners' investment
   and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December
   31, 1994.  These financial statements are the responsibility of the
   company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
   these financial statements based on our audits.

      We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
   standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
   obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
   free of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test
   basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
   statements.  An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles
   used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating
   the overall financial statement presentation.  We believe that our audits
   provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

      In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present
   fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of WPL Holdings,
   Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1994 and 1993, and the results of
   their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the
   period ended December 31, 1994, in conformity with generally accepted
   accounting principles.




   Milwaukee, Wisconsin,                           ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP
   February 1, 1995 

   

   
   The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
   statements.

   

   
   The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
   statements.

   

   
   The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
   statements.

   
   
   The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
   statements.

   

   
   The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
   statements.

   
   WPL HOLDINGS, INC.

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (dollars in thousands except as
   otherwise indicated)

   NOTE 1.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING AND REPORTING
                   POLICIES:

   a.  Business and Consolidation:

   WPL Holdings, Inc. (the "Company" or "WPLH") is the parent holding company
   of Wisconsin Power and Light Company ("WPL") and Heartland Development
   Corporation ("HDC").  The consolidated financial statements include the
   Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, WPL and HDC, along with their
   respective subsidiaries.  Certain amounts from prior years have been
   reclassified to conform with the current year presentation.

   WPL is a public utility predominantly engaged in the transmission and
   distribution of electric energy and the generation and bulk purchase of
   electric energy for sale.  WPL also transports, distributes and sells
   natural gas purchased from gas suppliers.  Nearly all of WPL's retail
   customers are located in south and central Wisconsin.  WPL's principal
   consolidated subsidiary is South Beloit Water, Gas and Electric Company.

   HDC and its principal subsidiaries are engaged in business development in
   three major areas: 1) environmental services through the Environmental
   Holding Company ("EHC"), the parent company of RMT, Inc. ("RMT"), Jones
   and Neuse, Inc., and QES, Inc., 2) affordable housing and historic
   rehabilitation through Heartland Properties, Inc. ("HPI") and 3) energy
   services, which includes ENSERV, Inc., A&C Enercom Consultants, Inc. and
   Entec Consulting, Inc.

   b.  Regulation:

   WPL's financial records are maintained in accordance with the uniform
   system of accounts prescribed by its regulators.  The Public Service
   Commission of Wisconsin ("PSCW") and the Illinois Commerce Commission have
   jurisdiction over retail rates, which represent approximately 83 percent
   of electric revenues plus all gas revenues.  The Federal Energy Regulatory
   Commission ("FERC") has jurisdiction over wholesale electric rates
   representing the balance of electric revenues.  Statement of Financial
   Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 71, "Accounting for the Effects of
   Certain Types of Regulation" provides that rate-regulated public utilities
   such as WPL record certain costs and credits allowed in the ratemaking
   process in different periods than for unregulated entities.  These are
   deferred as regulatory assets or regulatory liabilities and are recognized
   in the Consolidated Statements of Income at the time they are reflected in
   rates.

   c.  Utility Plant and Other Property and Equipment:

   Utility plant and other property and equipment are recorded at original
   cost and cost, respectively.  Utility plant costs include financing costs
   that are capitalized through the PSCW-approved allowance for funds used
   during construction ("AFUDC").  The AFUDC capitalization rates approximate
   WPL's cost of capital.  These capitalized costs are recovered in rates as
   the cost of the utility plant is depreciated.

   Normal repairs, maintenance and minor items of utility plant and other
   property and equipment are expensed.  Ordinary utility plant retirements,
   including removal costs less salvage value, are charged to accumulated
   depreciation upon removal from utility plant accounts, and no gain or loss
   is recognized.  Upon retirement or sale of other property and equipment,
   the cost and related accumulated depreciation are removed from the
   accounts and any gain or loss is included in other income and deductions. 
         
   d.  Nuclear Fuel:

   Nuclear fuel is recorded at its original cost and is amortized to expense
   based upon the quantity of heat produced for the generation of
   electricity.  This accumulated amortization assumes spent nuclear fuel
   will have no residual value.  Estimated future disposal costs of such fuel
   are expensed based on kilowatthours generated.

   e.  Revenue:

   WPL accrues utility revenues for services provided but not yet billed. 
   HDC records revenues earned but not billed and revenues from professional
   services rendered as incurred using a time-and-materials basis.

   f.  Electric Production Fuels and Purchased Gas:

       (1)Electric Production Fuels:

          Through 1994, the PSCW retail electric rates provided a range from
          which actual fuel costs could vary in relation to costs forecasted
          and used in rates.  If actual fuel costs fell outside this range, a
          hearing could be held to determine if a rate change was necessary,
          and a rate increase or decrease could result.

          Beginning with WPL's latest rate order UR-109, effective January 1,
          1995, the automatic fuel adjustment clause was eliminated.  In its
          absence, WPL will benefit from reductions in fuel cost. 
          Conversely, WPL will be exposed to increases in fuel costs.

          An automatic fuel adjustment clause for the FERC wholesale portion
          of WPL's electric business operates to increase or decrease monthly
          rates based on changes in fuel costs.

       (2)Purchased Gas:

          Through 1994, WPL's base gas cost recovery rates permitted the
          recovery of or refund to all customers for any increases or
          decreases in the cost of gas purchased from WPL's suppliers through
          a monthly purchased gas adjustment clause.

          Beginning with UR-109, the monthly purchased gas adjustment clause
          was also eliminated.  In the future, the fluctuations in the
          commodity cost of gas above or below a prescribed commodity price
          index will serve to increase or decrease WPL's margin on gas sales. 
          Fixed demand costs are excluded from the incentive program.  Both
          benefits and/or exposures are subject to ratepayer sharing
          provisions, which are capped at $1.1 million.

   g.  Cash and Equivalents:

   The Company considers all highly liquid debt instruments purchased with a
   maturity of three months or less to be cash equivalents.  The carrying
   amount approximates fair value because of the short maturity of these
   items.

   h.     Income Taxes:

   The Company files a consolidated federal income tax return.  Under the
   terms of an agreement between WPLH and its subsidiaries, WPL and HDC
   calculate their respective federal tax provisions and make payments to
   WPLH as if they were separate taxable entities.  Beginning in 1993, the
   Company fully provides deferred income taxes in accordance with SFAS
   No.109, "Accounting for Income Taxes," to reflect tax effects of reporting
   book and tax items in different periods.

   As part of HPI's investments in affordable housing, HPI is eligible to
   claim affordable housing and historic rehabilitation credits.  These tax
   credits can be recognized to the extent the Company has consolidated taxes
   payable.

   i.  Goodwill:

   The excess of the purchase cost over the fair value of net assets acquired
   is amortized over 20 to 30 years on a straight-line basis based on its
   estimated useful benefit.  Subsequent to its acquisitions, the Company
   continually evaluates whether later events and circumstances have occurred
   that indicate the remaining estimated useful life of goodwill may warrant
   revision or that the remaining balance of goodwill may not be recoverable. 
   To evaluate goodwill for possible impairment, the Company uses a forecast
   of the related business's discounted earnings over the remaining life of
   the goodwill.  Goodwill (net of accumulated amortization) was $20,135 and
   $20,920 at December 31, 1994 and 1993, respectively.

   NOTE 2. PROPERTY:
    
   a.  Jointly-Owned Utility Plants:

   WPL participates with other Wisconsin utilities in the construction and
   operation of several jointly-owned utility generating plants.  The chart
   below represents WPL's proportionate share of such plants as reflected in
   the Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 1994 and 1993: 

   

   Each of the respective joint owners finances its portion of construction
   costs.  WPL's share of operation and maintenance expenses is included in
   the Consolidated Statements of Income.

   b.   Capital Expenditures:

   The Company's capital expenditures for 1995 are estimated to total $102
   million.  Substantial commitments have been incurred for such
   expenditures.

   NOTE 3.  DEPRECIATION:

   The Company uses the straight-line method of depreciation.  For utility
   plant, straight-line depreciation is computed on the average balance of
   depreciable property at individual straight-line PSCW approved rates that
   consider the estimated useful life and removal cost or salvage value as
   follows:

                Electric     Gas          Water     Common
      1994        3.2%       3.7%          2.5%      7.2%
      1993        3.2%       3.7%          2.5%      7.3%
      1992        3.2%       3.7%          2.6%      7.1%

   Estimated useful lives related to other property and equipment are from 3
   to 12 years for equipment and 31.5 to 40 years for buildings.

   NOTE 4.  NUCLEAR OPERATIONS:

   Depreciation expense related to the Kewaunee Nuclear Power Plant
   ("Kewaunee") includes a provision to accrue for the cost of
   decommissioning over the life of the plant, which totalled $13.4 million,
   $6.1 million and $3.9 million in 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively. 
   Wisconsin utilities with ownership of nuclear generating plants are
   required by the PSCW to establish and make annual contributions to
   external trust funds to provide for plant decommissioning.  Additionally,
   in July 1994, the PSCW issued a generic order covering utilities that have
   nuclear generation.  This order standardizes the escalation assumptions to
   be used in determining nuclear decommissioning liabilities.

   WPL's share of the decommissioning costs is estimated to be $159 million
   (in 1994 dollars, assuming the plant is operating through 2013) based on a
   1992 study, using the immediate dismantlement method of decommissioning. 
   The undiscounted amount of decommissioning costs estimated to be expended
   between the years 2014 and 2050 is $1.016 billion.  After-tax earnings on
   the tax-qualified and nontax-qualified decommissioning funds are assumed
   to be 6.1 percent and 5.1 percent, respectively.  The future escalation
   rate is assumed to be 6.5 percent.

   Decommissioning costs and a charge to offset earnings on the external
   trusts are recorded as portions of depreciation expense and accumulated
   provision for depreciation on the Statements of Consolidated Income and
   the Consolidated Balance Sheets, respectively.  As of December 31, 1994,
   the total decommissioning costs included in the accumulated provision for
   depreciation were approximately $62.8 million.

   WPL has established external trusts to hold decommissioning funds, and the
   PSCW has approved WPL's funding plan which provides for annual
   contributions of current accruals over the remaining service lives of the
   nuclear plants.  The earnings on the external trusts accumulate in the
   fund balance and in the accumulated provision for depreciation.  Such
   earnings on the external trust funds, which have been offset by a charge
   to depreciation expense on the Statements of Consolidated Income, were
   $2.7, $1.1 and $1.2 million for the years ended December 31, 1994, 1993
   and 1992, respectively.

   Under the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982, the U.S. Department of Energy
   ("DOE") is responsible for the ultimate storage and disposal of spent
   nuclear fuel removed from nuclear reactors.  

   Interim storage space for spent nuclear fuel is currently provided at
   Kewaunee.  Currently there is on-site storage capacity for spent fuel
   through the year 1999.  Nuclear fuel, net, at December 31, consists of:

                                          1994                 1993
     Original cost of nuclear fuel      $155,190             $147,325
     Less--Accumulated amortization      135,794              129,325
                                        --------             --------
     Nuclear fuel, net                  $ 19,396             $ 18,000
                                        ========             ========
          
   The Price Anderson Act provides for the payment of funds for public
   liability claims arising from a nuclear incident.  Accordingly, in the
   event of a nuclear incident, WPL, as a 41-percent owner of Kewaunee, is
   subject to an overall assessment of approximately $32.5 million per
   incident for its ownership share of this reactor, not to exceed $4.1
   million payable in any given year.

   Through its membership in Nuclear Electric Insurance Limited, WPL has
   obtained property damage and decontamination insurance totalling $1.5
   billion for loss from damage at Kewaunee.  In addition, WPL maintains
   outage and replacement power insurance coverage totalling $101.4 million
   in the event an outage exceeds 21 weeks.

   NOTE 5.  NET ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE:

   WPL has a contract with a financial organization to sell, with limited
   recourse, certain accounts receivable and unbilled revenues.  These
   receivables include customer receivables resulting from sales to other
   public utilities as well as from billings to the co-owners of the jointly-
   owned electric generating plants that WPL operates.  The contract allows
   WPL to sell up to $150 million of receivables at any time.  Expenses
   related to the sale of receivables are paid to the financial organization
   under this contract and include, along with various other fees, a monthly
   discount charge on the outstanding balance of receivables sold that
   approximated a 4.86 percent annual rate during 1994.  These costs are
   recovered in retail utility rates as an operating expense.  All billing
   and collection functions remain the responsibility of WPL.  The contract
   expires August 19, 1995, unless extended by mutual agreement.

   As of December 31, 1994 and 1993, proceeds from the sale of accounts
   receivable totalled $76.5  million and $74 million, respectively.  During
   1994, WPL sold an average of $82.3 million of accounts receivable per
   month, compared with $75.9 million in 1993.

   As a result of its diversified customer base and WPL's sale of
   receivables, the Company does not have any significant concentrations of
   credit risk in the December 31, 1994, net accounts receivable balance.

   NOTE 6.  REGULATORY ASSETS AND REGULATORY LIABILITIES:

   Certain costs and credits are deferred and amortized in accordance with
   authorized or expected rate-making treatment.  As of December 31, 1994 and
   1993, regulatory created assets include the following:

                                                     1994         1993
      Environmental remediation costs              $ 82,179     $ 82,380
      Tax related (see Note 8)                       43,736       47,787
      Jurisdictional plant differences                7,173        6,533
      Decontamination and decommissioning
        costs of federal enrichment facilities        7,100        6,181
      Other                                           4,288        5,924
                                                   --------     --------
                                                   $144,476     $148,805
                                                   ========     ========

   As of December 31, 1994 and 1993, regulatory created liabilities included
   $6,738 and $6,618 respectively, for amounts due to customers related to
   the sale of air emissions credits.

   NOTE 7.  EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS:

   a.  Pension Plans:

   WPL has non-contributory, defined benefit retirement plans covering
   substantially all employees.  The benefits are based upon years of service
   and levels of compensation.  WPL's funding policy is to contribute at
   least the statutory minimum to a trust.

   The projected unit credit actuarial cost method was used to compute net
   pension costs and the accumulated and projected benefit obligations.  The
   discount rate used in determining those benefit obligations was 8.25, 7.25
   and 8.00 percent for 1994, 1993 and 1992 respectively.  The long-term rate
   of return on assets used in determining those benefit obligations was
   9.00, 9.75 and 10.00 percent for 1994, 1993, and 1992, respectively.

   The following table sets forth the funded status of the WPL plans and
   amounts recognized in the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets at
   December 31, 1994 and 1993:

                                                  1994           1993
     Accumulated benefit obligation--
       Vested benefits                         $(134,829)      $(135,303)
       Non-vested benefits                        (3,295)         (2,962)
                                               ---------       ----------
                                               $(138,124)      $(138,265)
                                               ---------       ----------
     Projected benefit obligation              $(154,283)      $(164,271)
     Plan assets at fair value, primarily
       common stocks and fixed income
       securities                                178,095         183,881
                                               ---------       ---------
     Plan assets in excess of projected
      benefit obligation                          23,812          19,610
     Unrecognized net transition asset           (19,376)        (21,823)
     Unrecognized prior service cost               5,679           7,691
     Unrecognized net loss                        14,737          20,650
                                               ---------       ---------
     Pre-paid pension costs, included in
       deferred charges and other              $  24,852       $  26,128
                                               =========       =========

     The net pension (benefit) recognized in the Consolidated Statements of
     Income for 1994, 1993 and 1992 included the following components:

                                             1994        1993        1992

     Service cost                         $  5,123    $  4,263    $  3,912
     Interest cost on projected benefit

       obligation                           12,051      11,614      10,615
     Actual return on assets                 1,016     (24,759)    (12,143)
     Amortization and deferral             (17,795)      8,430      (5,317)
                                          --------    --------    --------
     Net pension cost (benefit)           $    395    $   (452)   $ (2,933)
                                          ========    ========    ========

   b.         Postretirement Health Care and Life Insurance:

   Effective January 1, 1993, the Company prospectively adopted SFAS No. 106,
   "Employers' Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions". 
   SFAS No. 106 establishes standards of financial accounting and reporting
   for the Company's postretirement health care and life insurance benefits. 
   SFAS No. 106 requires the accrual of the expected cost of such benefits
   during the employees' years of service based on actuarial methodologies
   that closely parallel pension accounting requirements.  WPL has elected
   delayed recognition of the transition obligation and is amortizing the
   discounted present value of the transition obligation to expense over 20
   years.  For WPL, the cost of providing postretirement benefits, including
   the transition obligation, is being recovered in retail rates under
   current regulatory practices.

   The following table sets forth the plans' funded status:

                                                        1994        1993
      Accumulated postretirement benefit
        obligation-- 
         Retirees                                     $(29,273)   $(27,358) 
         Fully eligible active plan participants        (5,998)     (5,429)
         Other active plan participants                 (7,675)     (9,980)
                                                      --------    --------
      Accumulated benefit obligation                   (42,946)    (42,767)
      Plan assets at fair value                          9,767       7,073 
                                                      --------    --------
      Accumulated benefit obligation
        in excess of plan assets                      $(33,179)   $(35,694)
      Unrecognized transition obligation                26,474      29,638
      Unrecognized loss                                 (2,570)      2,025 
                                                      --------    --------
      Accrued postretirement benefits liability       $ (9,275)   $ (4,031)
                                                      ========    ========

   For 1994 and 1993, the annual net postretirement benefits costs recognized
   in the Consolidated Statements of Income consist of the following
   components:

                                                        1994        1993

         Service cost                                 $ 1,739     $ 1,463
         Interest cost on projected benefit
           obligation                                   3,135       3,151
         Actual return on plan assets                    (253)       (696)
         Amortization of transition obligation          1,527       1,560
         Amortization and deferral                       (381)        (27)
                                                      -------     -------
         Net postretirement benefits cost             $ 5,767     $ 5,451
                                                       ======      ======

   The postretirement benefits cost components for 1994 were calculated
   assuming health care cost trend rates ranging from 11.5 percent for 1994
   and decreasing to 5 percent by the year 2002.  The health care cost trend
   rate considers estimates of health care inflation, changes in utilization
   or delivery, technological advances, and changes in the health status of
   the plan participants.  Increasing the health care cost trend rate by one
   percentage point in each year would increase the accumulated
   postretirement benefit obligation as of December 31, 1994 by $2.5  million
   and the aggregate of the service and interest cost components of the net
   periodic postretirement benefit cost for the year by $.4 million.

   The assumed discount rate used in determining the accumulated
   postretirement obligation was 8.25  and 7.25 percent in 1994 and 1993,
   respectively.  The long-term rate of return on assets was 9.00 and 9.50
   percent in 1994 and 1993, respectively.  Plan assets are primarily
   invested in common stock, bonds and fixed income securities.  The
   Company's funding policy is to contribute the tax-advantaged maximum to a
   trust.

   The costs for the postretirement health care and life insurance benefits,
   based on an actuarial determination were $1.3 million in 1992.

   c. Other Postemployment Benefits:

   In November 1992, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS 
   No. 112, "Employers' Accounting for Postemployment Benefits".  SFAS No.
   112, which was effective January 1, 1994, establishes standards of
   financial accounting and reporting for the estimated cost of benefits
   provided by an employer to former or inactive employees after employment
   but before retirement.  The effect of adopting SFAS No. 112 was not
   material.

   NOTE 8.  INCOME TAXES:

   The following table reconciles the statutory federal income tax rate to
   the effective income tax rate:

                                                   1994    1993     1992
     Statutory federal income tax rate             35.0%   35.0%    34.0%
     State income taxes, net of federal
       benefit                                      5.3     5.1      7.0
     Investment tax credits restored               (1.9)   (2.1)    (2.7)
     Amortization of excess deferred taxes         (1.6)   (1.7)    (1.8)
     Affordable housing and historical tax
        credits                                    (4.6)   (5.7)    (7.5)
     Other differences, net                         1.9    (3.2)     (.6)
                                                   ----    ----     ----
     Effective income tax rate                     34.1%   27.4%    28.4%
                                                   ====    ====     ====

   The breakdown of income tax expense as reflected in the Consolidated
   Statements of Income is as follows:

                                                 1994       1993       1992
       Current Federal                         $26,161    $20,725    $19,703
       Current state                             5,673      6,500      5,343
       Deferred                                 10,321      5,015      8,124
       Investment tax credit restored           (1,926)    (1,967)    (2,125)
       Affordable housing and historical 
         tax credits                            (4,818)    (5,217)    (7,788)
                                               -------    -------    -------
                                               $35,411    $25,056    $23,257 
                                               =======    =======    =======

   In 1992, deferred taxes arising from utility plant timing differences, the
   qualified nuclear decommissioning trust contribution, employee benefits
   and other totalled $4,104, $709, $2,081, and $1,230, respectively.

   The temporary differences that resulted in accumulated deferred income tax
   (assets) and liabilities as of December 31 are as follows:

                                                    1994           1993
        Accelerated depreciation and other
         plant related                           $186,565        $171,993
        Excess deferred taxes                      21,215          22,744
        Unamortized investment tax credits        (21,784)        (22,812)
        Allowance for equity funds used during
         construction                              14,384          13,518
        Regulatory liability                       17,553          19,179

        Other                                       6,116           8,222
                                                 --------        --------
                                                 $224,049        $212,844
                                                 ========        ========

   Changes in WPL's deferred income taxes arising from the adoption of SFAS
   No. 109 represent amounts recoverable or refundable through future rates
   and have been recorded as net regulatory assets totalling approximately
   $26 million and $29 million in 1994 and 1993, respectively, on the
   Consolidated Balance Sheets.  These net regulatory assets are being
   recovered in rates over the estimated remaining useful lives of the assets
   to which they pertain. 


   NOTE 9. SHORT-TERM DEBT AND LINES OF CREDIT:

   The Company and its subsidiaries maintain bank lines of credit, most of
   which are at the bank prime rates, to obtain short-term borrowing
   flexibility, including pledging lines of credit as security for any
   commercial paper outstanding.  Amounts available under these lines of
   credit totalled $97.5 million, $100 million and $70 million as of December
   31, 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively. Information regarding short-term
   debt and lines of credit is as follows:

                                          1994        1993          1992
   As of end of year--
    Lines of credit borrowings         $    -       $ 2,000       $  -
    Commercial paper outstanding       $ 50,500     $49,000       $26,000
    Notes payable outstanding          $ 14,001     $40,954       $44,095
    Discount rates on commercial
       paper                           5.64%-6.12%  3.24%-3.40%   3.15%-3.90%
    Interest rates on notes payable    6.04%-6.07%  3.34%-3.35%   3.46%-3.62%

   For the year ended--
    Maximum month-end amount of
       short-term debt                 $ 81,000     $92,000       $70,155
    Average amount of short-term
       debt (based on daily
       outstanding balances)           $ 61,835     $56,250       $41,882
    Average interest rate on
       short-term debt                    4.49%       3.33%         3.78%

   NOTE 10. CAPITALIZATION:

   a. Common Shareowners' Investment:

   During 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively, the Company issued 337,980,
   451,233 and 528,142 new shares of common stock through its Dividend
   Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan and 401(k) Savings Plan, generating
   proceeds of $9.6 million, $15.3 million and $17.5 million, respectively.
     
   On April 27, 1993, a public offering of 1.65 million newly issued shares
   of the Company's common stock, priced at $35.50 per share, raised net
   proceeds of $56.7 million.  The proceeds were used by the Company to
   refinance short-term debt and for general corporate purposes including
   construction.

   In February 1989, the Board of Directors of the Company declared a
   dividend distribution of one common stock purchase right ("right") on each
   outstanding share of the Company's common stock.  Each right would
   initially entitle shareowners to buy one-half of one share of the
   Company's common stock at an exercise price of $60.00 per share, subject
   to adjustment.  The rights are not currently exercisable, but would become
   exercisable if certain events occurred related to a person or group
   acquiring or attempting to acquire 20 percent or more of the outstanding
   shares of common stock.  The rights expire on February 22, 1999, unless
   the rights are earlier redeemed or exchanged by the Company.

   Authorized shares of common stock total 100,000,000 as of December 31,
   1994, and can be categorized as follows:

          No. Of Shares
     Issued and outstanding  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   30,773,588  
     Reserved for issuance for Dividend
       Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan  . . . . . .      645,973
     Reserved for issuance for WPLH Long-Term
       Equity Incentive Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1,000,000
     Common Stock Rights Agreement . . . . . . . . . . .   15,709,781
     Unreserved  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   51,870,658
                                                         ------------
         Total authorized  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  100,000,000
                                                         ------------

   A retail rate order effective January 1, 1995, requires WPL to maintain a
   utility common equity level of 51.93 percent of total utility
   capitalization during the test year January 1, 1995 to December 31, 1996. 
   In addition, the PSCW ordered that it must approve the payment of
   dividends by WPL to the Company that are in excess of the level forecasted
   in the rate order  ($58.1 million), if such dividends would reduce WPL's
   average common equity ratio below 51.93 percent.

   b.    Preferred Stock:

   On October 27, 1993, WPL issued two new series of preferred stock through
   two separate public offerings.  The 6.2 percent Series is non-redeemable
   for ten years and the 6.5 percent Series is non-redeemable for five years. 
   The proceeds from the sale were used to retire 150,000 shares of 7.56
   percent Series and 149,865 shares of 8.48 percent Series preferred stock.

   c.    Long-term Debt:

   Substantially all of WPL's utility plant is secured by its first mortgage
   bonds.  Current maturities of long-term debt are as follows: $2.8 million
   in 1995, $3.3 million in 1996, $67.6 million in 1997, $11.6 million in
   1998 and $2.1 million in 1999.

   The Company has $150 million of notional principal under interest rate
   swap contracts.  The fair value of these contracts was not material as of
   December 31, 1994.

   The fair value of the Company's long-term debt based on quoted market
   prices for similar issues at December 31, 1994 and 1993 was $501,530 and
   $518,251, respectively.

   NOTE 11. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES:

   a.  Coal Contract Commitments:

   To ensure an adequate supply of coal, WPL has entered into certain
   long-term coal contracts.  These contracts include a demand or take-or-pay
   clause under which payments are required if contracted quantities are not
   purchased.  Purchase obligations on these coal and related rail contracts
   total approximately $149 million through December 31, 2003.  WPL's
   management believes it will meet minimum coal and rail purchase
   obligations under the contracts.  Minimum purchase obligations on these
   contracts over the next five years are estimated to be $25 million in 1995
   and $26 million in 1996, 1997, 1998 and 1999, respectively.

   b.  Purchased Power and Gas:

   Under firm purchase power and gas contracts, WPL is obligated as follows
   (dollars in millions):

                              Purchased Power         Purchased Gas 
                             Purchase               Purchase  Decatherms
                            Obligation     MW's    Obligation (in millions)

        1995                 $  8.3        1,920     $ 67         89
        1996                    8.1        1,830       67         90
        1997                   10.9        1,944       55         78
        1998                   15.6        2,505       45         66
        1999                   18.8        2,910       41         53
        Thereafter            106.5       12,720       77        101
                             ------       ------     ----        ---
                             $168.2       23,829     $352        477
                             ======       ======     ====        ===

   c.  Manufactured Gas Plant Sites:

   Historically, WPL has owned 11 properties that have been associated with
   the production of manufactured gas.  Currently, WPL owns five of these
   sites, three are owned by municipalities, and the remaining three are
   owned by private companies.  In 1989, WPL initiated investigation of these
   manufactured gas plant sites.  The Wisconsin Department of Natural
   Resources ("DNR") has been involved in reviewing investigation plans and
   has received ongoing reports regarding these investigations.

   In 1992, and into the beginning of 1993, WPL continued its investigations
   and studies.  WPL confirmed that there was no contamination at two of the
   sites.  WPL received a close-out letter from the DNR related to one of
   those sites and requested a close-out letter for the other site. 
   Additionally, the investigation of historical records at a third site
   indicated a minimal likelihood of any significant environmental impacts. 
   In February 1993, WPL completed cost estimates for the environmental
   remediation of the eight remaining sites.  The results of this analysis
   indicate that during the next 35 years, WPL will expend approximately $81
   million for feasibility studies, data collection, soil remediation
   activities, groundwater research and groundwater remediation activities,
   including construction of slurry containment walls and the installation of
   groundwater pump and treatment facilities.  This estimate was based on
   various assumptions, and is subject to continuous review and revision by
   management.

   The cost estimate set forth above assumes 4 percent average inflation over
   a 35 year period.  The cost estimate also contemplates that primarily
   groundwater pump and treatment activities will take place after 1998
   through and including 2027.  During this time, WPL estimates that it will
   incur average annual costs of $2.0 million to complete the planned
   groundwater remediation activities.

   With respect to rate recovery of these costs, the PSCW has approved a five
   year amortization of the unamortized balance of environmental costs
   expended to date.

   In addition, WPL is pursuing insurance recovery for the costs of
   remediating these sites and is investigating to determine whether there
   are other parties who may be responsible for some of the clean-up costs.

   Through 1994, management has continued its oversight of the issues related
   to the above manufactured gas plant sites without significant revision to
   the above estimates and assumptions.

   Based on the present regulatory record at the PSCW, management believes
   that future costs of remediating these manufactured gas plant sites will
   be recovered in rates.

   NOTE 12. SEGMENT INFORMATION:

   The following table sets forth certain information relating to the
   Company's consolidated operations:

                                             Year Ended December 31,          
    
                                         1994          1993        1992
     Operation information:
       Customer revenues--
         Electric                    $  531,747    $  503,187   $  477,735
         Gas                            139,646       137,270      119,362
         Environmental services          87,673        81,396       67,533
         Other                           57,093        50,090        8,643
                                     ----------    ----------   ----------
         Total operating revenues    $  816,159    $  771,943   $  673,273
                                     ==========    ==========   ==========
       Operating income (loss)--
         Electric                    $  120,218    $  118,785   $  109,459
         Gas                             13,344        10,431        8,724
         Environmental services           6,038         4,219        3,542
         Other (a)                       (9,591)       (7,252)      (3,766)
       Other income and (deductions),
           net                           10,619         2,344        4,741
       Interest expense, net            (36,657)      (37,020)     (37,625)
       Income taxes                     (35,411)      (25,056)     (23,257)
       Preferred stock dividends
           of subsidiary                 (3,310)       (3,928)      (3,811)
                                     ----------    ----------   ----------
         Net income                  $   65,250    $   62,523   $   58,007 
                                     ==========    ==========   ==========

     Investment information:
       Identifiable assets, 
        including allocated common
        plant at December 31--
         Electric                    $1,197,060    $1,170,010   $1,064,418
         Gas                            235,862       228,257      210,965
         Environmental services          41,187        40,124       31,400
         Other                          331,792       323,508      259,115
                                     ----------    ----------   ----------
         Total assets                $1,805,901    $1,761,899   $1,565,898
                                     ==========    ==========   ==========
     Other information:
       Construction and nuclear fuel
        expenditures--
         Electric                    $  113,836    $  139,805   $  113,252
         Gas                             19,683        18,876       13,974
         Other                            6,169        18,538       45,606
                                     ----------    ----------   ----------
         Total construction and
          nuclear fuel
          expenditures               $  139,688    $  177,219   $  172,832
                                     ==========    ==========   ==========

       Provision for depreciation
        and amortization--
         Electric                    $   65,195    $   53,398   $   49,554
         Gas                              8,082         7,329        6,578
         Other                            8,203         8,385        3,817
                                     ----------    ----------   ----------
         Total provision for
          depreciation               $   81,480    $   69,112   $   59,949
                                     ==========    ==========   ==========


     (a) Excludes the effects of affordable housing and historical tax
         credits of $4.8 million, $5.2 million and $7.8 million in 1994, 1993
         and 1992, respectively.


   NOTE 13.  ACQUISITIONS:

   On August 31, 1993, the Company issued 515,993 shares of Company common
   stock in exchange for the outstanding common and preferred stock of Jones
   and Neuse, Inc. ("JN"), a 250-employee environmental consulting and
   engineering service firm based in Austin, Texas.  This transaction was
   accounted for as a pooling of interests.  The Company positioned JN as a
   service region of its own 550-employee environmental consulting and
   engineering company, RMT, a subsidiary of HDC.

   In February 1993, HDC acquired A&C Enercom Consultants, Inc., a Georgia
   corporation, for cash and new shares of the Company's common stock.  A&C
   Enercom provides demand-side management and energy-related consulting
   services, primarily to public electric and gas utility companies.

   NOTE 14.  CONSOLIDATED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (Unaudited):

   Seasonal factors significantly affect WPL and, therefore, the data
   presented below should not be expected to be comparable between quarters
   nor necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for an annual
   period.

   The amounts below were not audited by independent public accountants, but
   reflect all adjustments necessary, in the opinion of the Company, for a
   fair presentation of the data.

                             Operating    Operating                 Earnings
   Quarter Ended             Revenues       Income     Net Income   Per Share
   1994:                          (in thousands except for per-share data)

   March 31                  $234,178      $47,245      $26,369       $.87 
   June 30                    181,285       20,864       10,303        .33 
   September 30               193,706       33,515       15,309        .50 
   December 31                209,555       28,385       13,269        .43 

   1993:
   March 31                  $209,250      $36,490      $19,766       $.70
   June 30                    173,631       19,872        7,190        .24
   September 30               173,869       29,358       13,258        .44
   December 31                216,307       40,463       22,309        .73



   
   ITEM 9.    CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
                  ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

                  None.

                                    PART III


   ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

            The information required by Item 10 relating to directors and
   nominees for election as directors at the Company's 1995 Annual Meeting of
   Shareowners is incorporated herein by reference to the information under
   the caption "Election of Directors" in the Company's Proxy Statement for
   its 1995 Annual Meeting of Shareowners (the "1995 Proxy Statement").  The
   1995 Proxy Statement will be filed with the Securities and Exchange 
   Commission within 120 days after the end of the Company's fiscal year.  
   The information required by Item 10 relating to executive officers is 
   set forth in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  The information 
   required by Item 10 relating to delinquent filers is incorporated herein 
   by reference to the information under the caption "Compliance with Section 
   16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934" in the 1995 Proxy Statement.

   ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

            The information required by Item 11 is incorporated herein by
   reference to the information under the captions "Compensation of Executive
   Officers" and "Compensation of Directors" (but not including the Report of
   the Compensation and Personnel Committee on Executive Compensation) in the 
   1995 Proxy Statement.  The 1995 Proxy Statement will be filed with the 
   Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of the 
   Company's fiscal year.

   ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

            The information required by Item 12 is incorporated herein by
   reference to the information under the caption "Ownership of Voting
   Securities" in the 1995 Proxy Statement.  The 1995 Proxy Statement will be
   filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after
   the end of the Company's fiscal year.


   ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

            The information required by Item 13 is incorporated by reference
   to the information under the caption "Compensation of Executive Officers"
   (but not including the Report of the Compensation and Personnel Committee
   on Executive Compensation) in the 1995 Proxy Statement.  The 1995 Proxy
   Statement will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within
   120 days after the end of the Company's fiscal year.


                                     PART IV


   ITEM 14.    EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM
               8-K

   (a) (1)  Consolidated Financial Statements

            Included in Part II of this report:

                 Report of Independent Public Accountants 

                 Consolidated Statements of Income for the Years Ended
                 December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992

                 Consolidated Balance Sheets, December 31, 1994 and 1993

                 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended
                 December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992

                 Consolidated Statements of Capitalization, December 31,
                 1994 and 1993

                 Consolidated Statements of Common Shareowners' Investment

                 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


   (a) (2)  Financial Statement Schedules

            For each of the years ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992

            Schedule I.         Parent Company Financial Statements
            Schedule II.        Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and
                                Reserves

            All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable
            or not required, or because that required information is shown
            either in the consolidated financial statements or in the notes
            thereto.

   (a) (3)  Exhibits

            The following Exhibits are filed herewith or incorporated herein
            by reference.  Documents indicated by an asterisk (*) are
            incorporated herein by reference.
               
            3A*    Restated Articles of Incorporation (incorporated by
                   reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Form S-3
                   Registration Statement No. 33-59972)

            3B     By-Laws of the Company as revised to February 23, 1994

            4A*      Indenture of Mortgage or Deed of Trust dated August 1,
                     1941, between WPL and First Wisconsin Trust Company and
                     George B. Luhman, as Trustees, incorporated by reference
                     to Exhibit 7(a) in File No. 2-6409, and the indentures
                     supplemental thereto dated, respectively, January 1,
                     1948, September 1, 1948, June 1, 1950, April 1, 1951,
                     April 1, 1952, September 1, 1953, October 1, 1954,
                     March 1, 1959, May 1, 1962, August 1, 1968, June 1,
                     1969, October 1, 1970, July 1, 1971, April 1, 1974,
                     December 1, 1975, May 1, 1976, May 15, 1978, August 1,
                     1980, January 15, 1981, August 1, 1984, January 15,
                     1986, June 1, 1986, August 1, 1988, December 1, 1990,
                     September 1, 1991, October 1, 1991, March 1, 1992, May
                     1, 1992, June 1, 1992 and July 1, 1992 (incorporated by 
                     reference to Second Amended Exhibit 7(b) in File No. 
                     2-7361; Amended Exhibit 7(c) incorporated by reference 
                     to File No. 2-7628; Amended Exhibit 7.02 in File No. 
                     2-8462; Amended Exhibit 7.02 in File No. 2-8882; Second 
                     Amendment Exhibit 4.03 in File No. 2-9526; Amended 
                     Exhibit 4.03 in File No. 2-10406; Amended Exhibit 2.02 
                     in File No. 2-11130; Amended Exhibit 2.02 in File No. 
                     2-14816; Amended Exhibit 2.02 in File No. 2-20372; 
                     Amended Exhibit 2.02 in File No. 2-29738; Amended 
                     Exhibit 2.02 in File No. 2-32947; Amended Exhibit 2.02 
                     in File No. 2-38304; Amended Exhibit 2.02 in File No. 
                     2-40802; Amended Exhibit 2.02 in File No. 2-50308; 
                     Exhibit 2.01(a) in File No. 2-57775; Amended Exhibit 
                     2.02 in File No. 2-56036; Amended Exhibit 2.02 in File 
                     No. 2-61439; Exhibit 4.02 in File No. 2-70534; Amended 
                     Exhibit 4.03 File No. 2-70534; Exhibit 4.02 in File No.
                     33-2579; Amended incorporated by reference to Exhibit 
                     4.03 in File No. 33-2579; Amended Exhibit 4.02 in File 
                     No. 33-4961; Exhibit 4B to WPL's Form 10-K for the year 
                     ended December 31, 1988, Exhibit 4.1 to WPL's Form 8-K 
                     dated December 10, 1990, Amended Exhibit 4.26 in File
                     No. 33-45726, Amended Exhibit 4.27 in File No.33-45726,
                     Exhibit 4.1 to WPL's Form 8-K dated March 9, 1992,
                     Exhibit 4.1 to WPL's Form 8-K dated May 12, 1992,
                     Exhibit 4.1 to WPL's Form 8-K dated June 29, 1992 and
                     Exhibit 4.1 to WPL's Form 8-K dated July 20, 1992)

            4B*      Rights Agreement, dated as of February 22, 1989, between
                     the Company  and Morgan Shareholder Services Trust
                     Company (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 to the
                     Company's current report on Form 8-K dated February 27,
                     1989)

            10A*#    Executive Tenure Compensation Plan, as revised November
                     1992 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10A to the
                     Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                     1992)

            10B*#    Form of Supplemental Retirement Plan, as revised
                     November 1992 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10B
                     to the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December
                     31, 1992)

            10C*#    Forms of Deferred Compensation Plans, as amended June,
                     1990 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10C to the
                     Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                     1990)

            10C.1*#  Officer's Deferred Compensation Plan II, as adopted
                     September 1992  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                     10C.1 to the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended
                     December 31, 1992)

            10C.2*#  Officer's Deferred Compensation Plan III, as adopted
                     January 1993 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10C.2
                     to the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December
                     31, 1993)

            10D*#    Pre-Retirement Survivor's Income Supplemental Plan, as
                     revised November 1992 (incorporated by reference to
                     Exhibit 10F to the Company's Form 10-K for the year
                     ended December 31, 1992)

            10E*#    Wisconsin Power and Light Company Management Incentive
                     Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10H to the
                     Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                     1992)

            10F#     Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors, as amended
                     January 17, 1995

            10G*#    WPL Holdings, Inc. Long-Term Equity Incentive Plan
                     (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the
                     Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
                     ended June 30, 1994)

            10H*#    Key Executive Employment and Severance Agreement by and
                     between WPL Holdings, Inc., and E.B. Davis, Jr.
                     (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the
                     Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
                     ended June 30, 1994)

            10I*#    Form of Key Executive Employment and Severance Agreement
                     by and between WPL Holdings, Inc. and each of L.W.
                     Ahearn, W.D. Harvey, E.G. Protsch and A.J. Amato
                     (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the
                     Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
                     ended June 30, 1994)

            10J*#    Form of Key Executive Employment and Severance Agreement
                     by and between WPL Holdings, Inc. and each of E.M.
                     Gleason, B.J. Swan, D.A. Doyle, N.E. Boys, D.E.
                     Ellestad, P.J. Wegner and K.K. Zuhlke (incorporated by
                     reference to Exhibit 4.4 to the Company's Quarterly
                     Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1994)

            10K*#    Restricted Stock Agreement -- Lance Ahearn (incorporated
                     by reference to Exhibit 10J to the Company's Form 10-K
                     for the year ended December 31, 1992)

            10L#     Restricted Stock Agreement -- Erroll B. Davis

            10M#     Summary of Heartland Development Corporation Short-
                     Term Incentive Plan

            21       Subsidiaries of the Company

            23       Consent of Independent Public Accountants

            27       Financial Data Schedule

            99*      1995 Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of
                     Shareowners to be held May 17, 1995 [The Proxy Statement
                     for the 1995 Annual Meeting of Shareowners will be filed
                     with the Securities and Exchange Commission under
                     Regulation 14A within 120 days after the end of the
                     Company's fiscal year; except to the extent incorporated
                     by reference, the Proxy Statement for the 1995 Annual
                     Meeting of Shareowners shall not be deemed to be filed
                     with the Securities and Exchange Commission as part of
                     this Annual Report on Form 10-K]

            Pursuant to Item 601(b)(4)(iii) of Regulation S-K, the Company
            hereby agrees to furnish to the Securities and Exchange
            Commission, upon request, any instrument defining the rights of
            holders of unregistered long-term debt not filed as an exhibit

            to this Form 10-K.  No such instrument authorizes securities in
            excess of 10 percent of the total assets of the Company.

            # - A management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

   (b)         Reports on Form 8-K.

               None

   
                                   SIGNATURES

               Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
   Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this
   report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
   authorized on the 22nd day of February, 1995.

                              WPL HOLDINGS, INC.

                              By:/s/ Erroll B. Davis, Jr.        
                                  Erroll B. Davis, Jr.
                                  President and Chief Executive Officer

               Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
   1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf
   of the registrant and in the capacities indicated on the 22nd day of
   February 1995.


   /s/ Erroll B. Davis, Jr.           President, Chief Executive Officer
   Erroll B. Davis, Jr.               and Director (principal executive
                                      officer)

   /s/ Edward M. Gleason              Vice President, Treasurer and Corporate
   Edward M. Gleason                  Secretary (principal financial officer)


   /s/ Daniel A. Doyle                Vice President - Finance, Controller
   Daniel A. Doyle                    and Treasurer - Wisconsin Power and
                                      Light Company  (principal accounting
                                      officer)

   /s/ Les Aspin            Director  /s/ Milton E. Neshek          Director
   Les Aspin                          Milton E. Neshek

   /s/ L. David Carley      Director  /s/ Henry C. Prange           Director
   L. David Carley                    Henry C. Prange 


   /s/ Rockne G. Flowers    Director  /s/ Judith D. Pyle            Director
   Rockne G. Flowers                  Judith D. Pyle 


   /s/ Donald R. Haldeman   Director  /s/ Henry F. Scheig           Director
   Donald R. Haldeman                 Henry F. Scheig   


   /s/ Katharine C. Lyall   Director  /s/ Carol T. Toussaint        Director
   Katharine C. Lyall                 Carol T. Toussaint


   /s/ Arnold M. Nemirow    Director
   Arnold M. Nemirow

   
              REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS ON SCHEDULES


   To WPL Holdings, Inc.:


   We have audited in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards,
   the consolidated financial statements included in the 1994 Form 10-K of
   WPL Holdings, Inc. and have issued our report thereon dated February 1,
   1995.  Our audit was made for the purpose of forming an opinion on those
   statements taken as a whole.  Supplemental Schedules I and II are the
   responsibility of the Company's management and are presented for purposes
   of complying with the Securities and Exchange Commission's rules and are
   not part of the basic consolidated financial statements.  These schedules
   have been subjected to the auditing procedures applied in the audit of the
   basic consolidated financial statements and, in our opinion, fairly state
   in all material respects the financial data required to be set forth
   therein in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken
   as a whole.



   Milwaukee, Wisconsin,                               ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP
   February 1, 1995

   
                               WPL HOLDINGS, INC.
                     INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1994, 1993 AND 1992


   FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES:

      I.       Parent Company Financial Statements                    
     II.       Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves
    


   NOTE:       All other schedules are omitted because they are not
               applicable or not required, or because that required
               information is shown either in the financial statements or in
               the notes thereto.

   
                                              SCHEDULE I  -  CONDENSED
                                        PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
   
   The accompanying notes are an integral part of these state

   
                             SCHEDULE I - CONDENSED
                       PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                               WPL HOLDINGS, INC.
                              (Parent Company Only)

                                  BALANCE SHEET

                                                      As of December 31, 
                                                      1994          1993
                                                        (In Thousands)
                  ASSETS
   Current assets:
       Cash and equivalents........................    $1,061       $8,642
       Accounts receivable - affiliates (Note B)...       187          109
       Notes receivable - affiliates  (Note B).....    28,471       24,948
                                                     --------     --------
                                                       29,719       33,699
                                                     --------     --------
   Accounts receivable from WPL Holding DRIP.......       250          150
                                                     --------      -------
   Tax benefit receivable..........................     1,219        2,156
                                                     --------      -------
   Property and equipment..........................     1,009        1,023
                                                     --------      -------
   Investments and other...........................       267          677
                                                     --------      -------
   Investments in Subsidiaries, at equity:
       Heartland Development Corporation...........    66,834       71,439
       Wisconsin Power and Light Company...........   544,506      522,667
                                                     --------      -------
                                                      611,340      594,106
   Deferred income taxes...........................       372          372
                                                     --------     --------
   Total Assets....................................  $644,176     $632,183
                                                     ========     ========
         LIABILITIES AND CAPITALIZATION

   Current liabilities:
       Short term debt  (Note C)...................   $11,500      $32,958
       Accounts payable - affiliates  (Note B).....      (149)       4,727
       Accounts payable............................         3            3
       Accrued taxes...............................      (912)         (94)
       Accrued interest and other..................       220          739
       Dividends payable...........................       228          148
                                                      -------      -------
                                                       10,890       38,481
   Long-term debt..................................    34,000       10,463
   Deferred taxes..................................       274
   Deferred credit.................................     1,214          273
                                                      -------      -------
                                                       35,488       10,736
                                                      -------      -------
   Capitalization:
       Common shareowners' investment:
         Common stock, $.01 par value, authorized
           100,000,000 shares; issued and
           outstanding -- 30,773,588 shares and
           30,438,654 shares at December 31,
           1994 and 1993, respectively.............       308          305
         Additional paid-in-capital................   304,442      297,916
         Reinvested earnings.......................   293,048      284,745
                                                     --------     --------
             Total Capitalization..................   597,798      582,966
                                                     --------     --------
   Total Capitalization and Liabilities............  $644,176     $632,183
                                                     ========     ========

   The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

   
                                             SCHEDULE I  -  CONDENSED
                                      PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                          WPL HOLDINGS, INC.
                                                         (Parent Company Only)
   
   The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

   
                        SCHEDULE I - CONDENSED
                      PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                              WPL HOLDINGS, INC.
         Supplemental Notes to Parent Company Only Financial Statements


   The following are supplemental notes to the WPL Holdings, Inc. (the
   "Company") Parent Company Financial Statements and should be read in
   conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto
   included in the WPL Holdings, Inc. 1994 Annual Report, which are hereby
   incorporated herein by reference.

   Note A.  The parent company files a consolidated federal income tax return
            with its subsidiaries.

   Note B.  Net amounts due to (due from) affiliates result from intercompany
            transactions including loans, federal income tax liabilities and  
            an administrative allowance.

   Note C.  Information regarding short-term debt is as follows:

                                                     1994          1993
                                                        (In Thousands)
    As of end of year:
        Notes payable outstanding................   $11,500       $32,958
        Interest rates on notes payable..........     6.06%         3.58%
    For the year ended:
        Maximum month-end amount of short-term
          debt...................................   $52,500       $36,000
        Average amount of short-term debt........   $36,462       $25,827
        Average interest rate on short-term debt.     4.56%         3.37%



   Note D.  During 1994, 1993 and 1992, Wisconsin Power and Light Company
   allocated and billed certain administrative and general expenses to the
   Company using an allocation method approved by the Public Service
   Commission of Wisconsin.  These expenses totalled $759,000, $777,000 and
   $867,000 during 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively.

   

                                                SCHEDULE    II

                                   WPL HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

   

   
                                  EXHIBIT INDEX


   Exhibit
     No.          Description

     3B           By-Laws of as revised to February 23, 1994

     10F          Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors, as amended
                  January 17, 1995

     10L          Restricted Stock Agreement -- Erroll B. Davis

     10M          Summary of Heartland Development Corporation Short-
                  Term Incentive Plan

     21           Subsidiaries of the Company

     23           Consent of Independent Public Accountants

     27           Financial Data Schedule



