
10-K405



                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

   [X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF THE SECURITIES 
        EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
        For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997
                                       or
   [  ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF THE SECURITIES
        EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
        For the transition period from ______ to _______

                 Name of Registrant, State of                   IRS Employer
    Commission   Incorporation, Address of Principal          Identification
    File Number  Executive Offices and Telephone Number               Number

    1-9894       WPL HOLDINGS, INC.                               39-1380265
                 (a Wisconsin corporation)
                 222 West Washington Avenue
                 Madison, Wisconsin 53703
                 Telephone (608)252-3311

   Securities registered pursuant to Section 12 (b) of the Act:

                                      Name of Each Exchange on
    Title of Class                    Which Registered
    Common Stock, $.01 Par Value      New York Stock Exchange
    Common Stock Purchase Rights      New York Stock Exchange

   Securities registered pursuant to Section 12 (g) of the Act:  None

   Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
   required to be filed by Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange
   Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
   that the registrant was required to file such reports) and (2) has been
   subject to such filing requirements for the past (90) days.  Yes X       
   No _____

   Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
   405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
   to the best of the registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or
   information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of the Form
   10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. [ X]

   The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by nonaffiliates as of
   February 28, 1998: $976.1 million

   Number of shares outstanding of each class of common stock as of February
   28, 1998:

    Common Stock, $.01 par value, 30,788,593 shares outstanding

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

   Portions of the Proxy Statement relating to the registrant's 1998 Annual
   Meeting of Shareowners will, upon filing with the Securities and Exchange
   Commission, be incorporated by reference into Part III hereof.

                                
                                                                     Page
    Part I                                                          Number
              Item 1.   Business                                       3
              Item 2.   Properties                                    19
              Item 3.   Legal Proceedings                             22
              Item 4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of            24
                        Security Holders
    Part II
              Item 5.   Market for Registrant's Common Equity and
                        Related Stockholder Matters                   25
              Item 6.   Selected Financial Data                       26
              Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of
                        Financial Condition and Results of            
                        Operations                                    27
              Item  7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures      52
                        About Market Risk
              Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary        
                        Data                                          52
              Item 9.   Changes in and Disagreements with
                        Accountants on Accounting and Financial      
                        Disclosures                                   74
    Part III
              Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the       
                        Registrant                                    74
              Item 11.  Executive Compensation                        74
              Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial     
                        Owners and Management                         74
              Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related             
                        Transactions                                  74

    Part IV
              Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules       
                        and Reports on Form 8-K                       75
                        Signatures                                    89
                        Report of Independent Public Accountants
                          on Schedules                                90


   FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

   Refer to the "Forward-Looking Statements" section in Item 7. "Management's
   Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations"
   (MD&A) for information and disclaimers regarding forward-looking
   statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

                                     PART I

   As described below, WPL Holdings, Inc. (WPLH) is a party to a proposed
   three-way merger (Merger) involving IES Industries Inc. (IES) and
   Interstate Power Company (IPC).  Management of WPLH currently expects the
   Merger to be consummated in the second quarter of 1998.  As a result, and
   to enhance the reader's understanding of the combined company following
   the Merger, certain information relating to IES and IPC and their
   respective operations, as well as to the combined company, has been
   included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Information relating to IES
   and IPC was supplied by the respective companies for inclusion herein. 
   This information has been provided for reference only and is not intended
   to imply that the operations of WPLH included the operations of IES or IPC
   prior to the effective time of the Merger.  The portions of Items 1
   through 3 of Part I which are prospective in nature, generally reflect a
   discussion of operations on a post-merger basis.  The portions of Items 1
   through 3 of Part I that are historical in nature focus primarily on WPLH.

   ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

   A.   MERGER 

   WPLH, IES and IPC are in the process of completing a Merger forming
   Interstate Energy Corporation (Merged Company).  In connection with the
   Merger, IES will be merged with and into WPLH forming the Merged Company
   and IPC will become a subsidiary of the Merged Company.  In addition,
   following the Merger, the holding companies for the nonregulated
   businesses of the former WPLH and IES (Heartland Development Corporation
   (HDC) and IES Diversified Inc. (Diversified), respectively) will be merged
   into each other.  The resulting company from this merger is referred to as
   New Diversified.  As a result of the Merger, the first tier subsidiaries
   of the Merged Company will include: Wisconsin Power and Light Company
   (WP&L), IES Utilities Inc. (IESU), IPC, New Diversified and Alliant
   Services Company.  Among various other regulatory constraints, the Merged
   Company will operate as a registered public utility holding company
   subject to the limitations imposed by the Public Utility Holding Company
   Act of 1935.  For additional information regarding the terms of the
   Merger, see Note 2 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements." 

   The merger partners currently anticipate cost savings resulting from the
   Merger of approximately $749 million over a ten-year period, net of
   transaction costs and costs to achieve the savings of approximately $78
   million.  Approximately $22 million of these costs had been incurred
   through December 31, 1997.  Upon consummation of the Merger, the merger
   partners estimate the Merged Company will expense approximately $40
   million of additional merger-related costs (e.g., required payments to or
   for financial advisors, employee retirements and separations, attorneys,
   accountants, etc.).   The estimate of potential cost savings constitutes a
   forward-looking statement and actual results may differ materially from
   this estimate.  The estimate is necessarily based upon various assumptions
   that involve judgments with respect to, among other things, future
   national and regional economic and competitive conditions, technological
   developments, inflation rates, regulatory treatments, weather conditions,
   financial market conditions, future business decisions and other
   uncertainties.  No assurance can be given that the entire amount of
   estimated costs savings will actually be realized.  In addition, the
   allocation between WPLH, IES and IPC and their customers of the estimated
   cost savings of approximately $749 million over ten years resulting from
   the Merger, net of costs incurred to achieve such savings, will be subject
   to regulatory review and approval. 

   As part of the approval process for the Merger, the Merged Company has
   agreed to various rate freezes and rate caps to be implemented in certain
   jurisdictions for periods not to exceed four years commencing on the
   effective date of the Merger (see "Liquidity and Capital Resources - Rates
   and Regulatory Matters" in Item 7. MD&A for a further discussion). 

   Assuming capture of the anticipated merger-related synergies and no
   significant legislative or regulatory changes affecting the Merged
   Company, the Merged Company does not expect the merger-related electric
   and natural gas price freezes to have a material adverse effect on its
   financial position or results of operations.

   A brief description of the three merger partners is as follows:

   WPLH

   WPLH was incorporated under the laws of the State of Wisconsin in 1981,
   and operates as a holding company with both utility and nonutility
   businesses.  It is the parent company of a public utility, WP&L and its
   related subsidiaries and of HDC, the parent corporation for the nonutility
   businesses.  Refer to Note 13 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial
   Statements" for financial information related to WPLH's business segments.

   IES 

   IES is a holding company which was incorporated as IE Industries in 1986
   under the laws of the State of Iowa.  IES's wholly-owned subsidiaries are
   IESU and Diversified.  IESU is primarily an electric and natural gas
   utility company operating in the State of Iowa.  Diversified is a holding
   company for nonutility subsidiaries which are primarily engaged in the
   energy-related, transportation and real estate development businesses. 
   Diversified also has an investment in an Iowa-based telecommunications
   company, among other miscellaneous investments.

   IPC

   IPC is a public utility incorporated in 1925 under the laws of the State
   of Delaware.  IPC is primarily an electric and natural gas utility company
   operating in the States of Iowa, Minnesota and Illinois.  At December 31,
   1997, IPC provided electric and gas service to approximately 166,000 and
   50,000 customers,  respectively.  In 1997, 1996 and 1995, IPC had no
   single customer for which electric and/or gas sales accounted for 10% or
   more of IPC's consolidated revenues.  IPC's largest gas transportation
   customer, which represents 36% of IPC's total gas throughput, is committed
   by contract for the next four years.  The revenue associated with this
   customer is immaterial.

   WP&L and HDC are currently the primary first-tier subsidiaries of WPLH. 
   Assuming that the Merger is consummated, the first-tier subsidiaries of
   the Merged Company would be as follows:

   1) WP&L

   WP&L, incorporated in Wisconsin in 1917 as the Eastern Wisconsin Electric
   Company, is a public utility predominately engaged in the transmission and
   distribution of electric energy and the generation and bulk purchase of
   electric energy for sale.  WP&L also transports, distributes and sells
   natural gas purchased from gas suppliers.  Nearly all of WP&L's customers
   are located in south and central Wisconsin.  WP&L operates in municipal-
   ities pursuant to permits of indefinite duration which are regulated by
   Wisconsin law.  At December 31, 1997, WP&L supplied electric and gas
   service to approximately 393,000 and 155,000 customers, respectively. 
   WP&L also has approximately 32,000 water customers.  The water operations
   are immaterial to WP&L overall.  In 1997, 1996 and 1995, WP&L had no
   single customer for which electric and/or gas sales accounted for 10% or
   more of WP&L's consolidated revenues.

   WP&L owns all of the outstanding capital stock of South Beloit Water, Gas
   and Electric Company (South Beloit), a public utility supplying electric,
   gas and water service, principally in Winnebago County, Illinois, which
   was incorporated in 1908.

   WP&L also owns varying interests in several other subsidiaries and
   investments which are not material to WP&L's operations.

   2) IESU

   IESU was incorporated in Iowa in 1925 as Iowa Railway and Light
   Corporation and is currently a first-tier subsidiary of IES.  IESU is
   primarily a public utility operating company engaged in providing electric
   energy, natural gas and, to a limited extent, steam used for industrial
   and heating purposes, in the State of Iowa. At December 31, 1997, IESU
   supplied electric and gas service to approximately 339,000 and 178,000
   customers, respectively.   In 1997, 1996 and 1995, IESU had no single
   customer for which electric and/or gas sales accounted for 10% or more of
   IESU's consolidated revenues.

   IESU also owns varying interests in several other subsidiaries and
   investments which are not material to IESU's operations. 

   3) IPC

   See above.

   4) HDC

   Incorporated in 1988, HDC is the parent company of all nonutility
   businesses for WPLH.  HDC and its principal subsidiaries are engaged in
   business development in three major areas: (1) environmental and
   engineering services;  (2) affordable housing;  and (3) energy services. 
   Following the consummation of the Merger, it is anticipated that HDC
   and Diversified will be merged to form New Diversified.

   5) DIVERSIFIED

   Other than IESU's nonregulated investments, the non-utility operations of
   IES are organized under Diversified.  Diversified is a holding company
   whose wholly-owned subsidiaries include IES Transportation Inc. (IES
   Transportation), IES Energy Inc. (IES Energy), IES Investments Inc. (IES
   Investments) and IES International Inc. (IES International).

   6) ALLIANT SERVICES COMPANY

   Upon consummation of the Merger, Alliant Services Company will be the
   subsidiary formed to provide administrative services as required under 
   the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935.

   B.   INFORMATION RELATING TO THE MERGED COMPANY AS A WHOLE

   EMPLOYEES

   As of December 31, 1997, the parties to the Merger and their affiliates
   had the following full-time employees:

                                         Number of         Number of
                         Number of       Bargaining        Bargaining
                         Employees        Employees        Agreements
    WP&L                    2,175             1,490                 1
    IESU                    2,045             1,089                 6
    IPC                       872               559                 3
    HDC                       642                 -                 -
    Diversified               255                84                 5
    IES                       148                 -                 -
                            -----             -----             -----
      Total                 6,137             3,222                15
                            =====             =====             =====

   There are several bargaining agreements at IESU expiring in 1998 but the
   number of employees covered under these agreements is relatively small.

   CAPITAL EXPENDITURE AND INVESTMENT AND FINANCING PLANS

   Refer to the "Liquidity and Capital Resources" section in Item 7. MD&A for
   a discussion of anticipated construction and acquisition expenditures for
   1998-2002 and the assumptions in financing future capital requirements.

   REGULATION

   Assuming the Merger is consummated, the Merged Company will operate as a
   registered public utility holding company subject to the limitations
   imposed by the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935.

   WP&L is subject to regulation by the Public Service Commission of
   Wisconsin (PSCW) as to retail utility rates and service, accounts,
   issuance and use of proceeds of securities, certain additions and
   extensions to facilities and in other respects.  The PSCW is comprised of
   three commissioners appointed by the Governor of Wisconsin and ratified by
   the State Senate.  WP&L is generally required to file a rate case with the
   PSCW every two years with requests for rate relief based on a forward-
   looking test year period.  However, as one of the conditions of the
   Merger, the PSCW has required WP&L to freeze on a post-merger basis retail
   electric, natural gas, and water rates for a period of four years.  The
   PSCW also regulates the type and amount of investments in non-utility
   businesses. 

   IESU and IPC operate pursuant to the laws of the State of Iowa and are
   thereby subject to the jurisdiction of the Iowa Utilities Board (IUB). 
   The IUB has authority to regulate rates and standards of service, to
   prescribe accounting requirements and to approve the location and
   construction of electric generating facilities having a capacity in excess
   of 25,000 Kw.  The IUB is comprised of three commissioners appointed by
   the Governor of Iowa and ratified by the State Senate.  Requests for price
   relief are based on historical test periods, adjusted for certain known
   and measurable changes.  The IUB must decide on requests for price relief
   within 10 months of the date of the application for which relief is filed
   or the interim prices granted become permanent.  Interim prices, if
   allowed, are permitted to become effective, subject to refund, no later
   than 90 days after the price increase application is filed.  IESU and IPC
   have agreed to a four-year price cap effective with the Merger as part of
   the Merger approval process.

   In Iowa, non-exclusive franchises, which cover the use of streets and
   alleys for public utility facilities in incorporated communities, are
   granted for a maximum of twenty-five years by a majority vote of local
   qualified residents.  In addition, the IUB defines the boundaries of
   mutually exclusive service territories for all electric utilities.  The
   IUB has jurisdiction and grants franchises for the use of public highway
   rights-of-way for electric and gas facilities outside corporate limits.

   IPC is also subject to regulation by the Minnesota Public Utilities
   Commission (MPUC).  The MPUC is comprised of five commissioners appointed
   by the Governor of Minnesota and confirmed by the Senate.  Requests for
   price relief can be based on either historical or projected data.  The
   MPUC must reach a final decision within 10 months.  Interim rates are
   permitted.  The MPUC also has jurisdiction to approve IPC's capital
   structure on an annual basis.  

   South Beloit and IPC are subject to regulation by the Illinois Commerce
   Commission (ICC) for retail utility rates and service, accounts, issuance
   and use of proceeds of securities, certain additions and extensions to
   facilities and in other respects.  The ICC is comprised of five
   commissioners appointed by the Governor of Illinois.  Requests for rate
   relief must be decided within 11 months. 

   The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) has jurisdiction under the
   Federal Power Act over certain of the electric utility facilities and
   operations, wholesale rates and accounting practices of WP&L, IESU and
   IPC, and in certain other respects.  In addition, certain natural gas
   facilities and operations of the companies are subject to the jurisdiction
   of the FERC under the Natural Gas Act. 

   With respect to environmental matters, the United States Environmental
   Protection Agency administers certain federal statutes and has delegated
   the administration of other environmental initiatives to the applicable
   state environmental agencies.  In addition, the state agencies have
   jurisdiction over air and water quality standards associated with fossil
   fuel fired electric generation and the level and flow of water, safety and
   other matters pertaining to hydroelectric generation.

   WP&L and IESU are subject to the jurisdiction of the Nuclear Regulatory
   Commission (NRC), with respect to the Kewaunee Nuclear Power Plant
   (Kewaunee) in the case of WP&L and the Duane Arnold Energy Center (DAEC)
   in the case of IESU, and to the jurisdiction of the United States
   Department of Energy (DOE) with respect to the disposal of nuclear fuel
   and other radioactive wastes from Kewaunee and the DAEC.

   Effective with the consummation of the Merger,  the Merged Company will be
   subject to regulation by the PSCW, as WP&L is currently.  The PSCW
   regulates, among other things, the type and amount of investments in non-
   utility businesses. 

   Refer to Item 7. MD&A for additional information regarding regulation.

   YEAR 2000

   Refer to the "Other Matters - Year 2000" section in Item 7. MD&A for a
   discussion of Year 2000 system conversion initiatives.

   C.   INFORMATION RELATING TO UTILITY OPERATIONS

   On a combined basis, the merger partners realized 54%, 41%, 3% and 2% of
   their electric utility revenues in 1997 in Iowa, Wisconsin, Minnesota and
   Illinois, respectively.  Approximately 87% of the electric revenues were
   regulated by the respective state commissions while the other 13% were
   regulated by the FERC.  On a combined basis, the parties realized 56%,
   38%, 3% and 3% of their gas utility revenues in Iowa, Wisconsin, Minnesota
   and Illinois, respectively.

   UTILITY INDUSTRY OUTLOOK

   Refer to the "Utility Industry Outlook" section in Item 7. MD&A for a
   discussion of various competitive issues impacting utility operations. 

   ELECTRIC OPERATIONS

   WP&L 

   WP&L provides electricity in a service territory of approximately 16,000
   square miles in 35 counties in southern and central Wisconsin and four
   counties in northern Illinois.  As of December 31, 1997, WP&L provided
   retail electric service to approximately 393,000 customers in 615 cities,
   villages and towns, and wholesale service to 25 municipal utilities, one
   privately owned utility, three rural electric cooperatives, one Native
   American nation and to the Wisconsin Public Power, Inc. system for the
   provision of retail service to 14 communities.

   Electric operations represented 79.8% of WP&L's total operating revenues
   and 90.5% of WP&L's total operating income for the year ended December 31,
   1997. 

   Electric sales are seasonal to some extent with the yearly peak normally
   occurring in the summer months.  WP&L also experiences a smaller winter
   peak in December or January.  The maximum net hourly peak load on the
   electric system was 2,253 megawatts and occurred on July 16, 1997.  

   Refer to Item 2. "Properties" for additional information regarding
   electric facilities.  

   Fuel

   In 1997, approximately 86% of WP&L's net kilowatthour generation of
   electricity by company-owned and jointly-owned facilities was fueled by
   coal and 10% by nuclear fuel (provided by WP&L's 41% ownership interest in
   Kewaunee).  The remaining electricity generated was produced by hydro-
   electric, oil-fired and natural gas generation.  The 1997 WP&L coal
   percentage was higher than anticipated due to the outage at the Kewaunee
   plant as discussed in Item 7. MD&A.  As a result, the coal portion of
   generation is expected to be slightly lower in future years.

   In 1997, approximately 64% of IESU's net kilowatthour generation of
   electricity by company-owned and jointly-owned facilities was fueled by
   fossil fuel (primarily coal) and 34% by nuclear fuel through ownership in
   the DAEC.  The 1997 IESU fossil percentage was lower than anticipated
   because of several maintenance outages at various fossil-fueled generating
   facilities and attempts to conserve coal due to rail transportation
   problems.  As a result, the fossil fuel portion of generation is expected
   to be slightly higher in future years.   

   In 1997, approximately 94% of IPC's electricity was fueled by coal and the
   remainder was primarily from natural gas.  Future sources of generation
   are expected to be in similar proportions.

   Coal

   WP&L's primary fuel source is coal.  To ensure an adequate supply of coal,
   WP&L has entered into certain long-term coal contracts.  These contracts
   include a demand or take-or-pay clause under which payments are required
   if contracted quantities are not purchased.  Refer to Note 11a in "Notes
   to Consolidated Financial Statements" for details relating to these long-
   term coal purchase commitments.  WP&L anticipates that its average fuel
   costs will likely increase in the future, due to cost escalation
   provisions in existing coal and transportation contracts. 

   Present coal supply contracts and transportation contracts (excluding
   extension options) cover approximately 34% and 42%, respectively, of
   WP&L's estimated coal requirements for the years 1998 through 2002.  WP&L
   will seek renewals of existing contracts or additional sources of supply
   and negotiate new or additional transportation contracts to satisfy these
   requirements and to comply with environmental regulations.

   IESU estimates that it has the capability to purchase approximately half
   of its 1998 through 2002 coal requirements under its current coal
   contracts and will meet the remainder of its requirements from either
   future contracts or purchases in the spot market.  Many of the current
   contracts have provisions allowing IESU to purchase additional tons of
   coal.  IESU believes that an ample supply of coal is available in the spot
   market to meet its needs.

   Approximately 75% to 80% of IPC's 1998 coal requirements will be met from
   long-term contracts.  These contracts have expiration dates ranging
   through August 31, 1999.  Future coal requirements will be met from either
   future contracts or purchases in the spot market. 

   Purchased Power

   During the year ended December 31, 1997, about 36.7% of WP&L's total
   kilowatthour requirements were met through purchased power.  Refer to Note
   11b in "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for details relating
   to long-term purchase power commitments.

   Approximately 24.6% and 38.6% of IESU's and IPC's total kilowatthour
   requirements, respectively, were met through purchased power during the
   year ended December 31, 1997.

   General

   Assuming consummation of the Merger, WP&L, IESU and IPC expect to realize
   reduced electric production costs through the joint dispatch of systems
   and increased marketing opportunities in the wholesale and interchange
   markets through electric interconnections with other utilities.

   The facilities of the merger partners are interconnected with certain
   neighboring utilities and WP&L, IESU and IPC participate as members of the
   Mid-Continent Area Power Pool (MAPP).  This pool is comprised of 20
   utilities which are Transmission Owning Members (TOMs) and 51 energy-
   related companies providing services in the upper midwest region of the
   United States, and operates pursuant to an agreement which provides for
   the interchange of electric energy, the sharing of responsibilities for
   production capacity and reserve and the supply of electric energy.

   Nuclear

   General

   Assuming the Merger is consummated, the Merged Company will own interests
   in two nuclear facilities, Kewaunee and the DAEC.  Kewaunee, a 535-
   megawatt (nameplate capacity) pressurized water reactor plant, is operated
   by Wisconsin Public Service Corporation (WPSC) and is jointly owned by
   WPSC (41.2%), WP&L (41.0%), and Madison Gas & Electric Company (MG&E)
   (17.8%).  The Kewaunee operating license expires in 2013.  DAEC, a 520-
   megawatt boiling water reactor plant, is operated by IESU and IESU has a
   70% ownership interest in the plant.  The DAEC operating license expires
   in 2014.

   As co-owners of nuclear generating units, IESU and WP&L are subject to the
   jurisdiction of the NRC.  The NRC has broad supervisory and regulatory
   jurisdiction over the construction and operation of nuclear reactors,
   particularly with regard to public health, safety and environmental
   considerations.  

   The operation and design of nuclear power plants is under constant review
   by the NRC.  IESU and WP&L have complied with and are currently complying
   with all NRC requests for data relating to these reviews.  As a result of
   such reviews, further changes in operations or modifications of equipment
   may be required, the cost of which cannot currently be estimated.  IESU's
   and WP&L's anticipated nuclear-related construction expenditures for 1998-
   2002 are approximately $46 million and $43 million, respectively.  Refer
   to "Liquidity and Capital Resources - Capital Requirements" in Item 7.
   MD&A for a further discussion.

   The DAEC received the highest score possible (1 on a 3-point scale) in the
   areas of plant operations, engineering and plant support and a "good"
   rating (2) in the area of maintenance during the NRC's last Systematic
   Assessment of Licensee Performance (SALP) report in 1997.  Kewaunee
   received the highest score possible (1) in the area of maintenance and a
   "good" rating (2) in the areas of plant operations, engineering and plant
   support during the NRC's last SALP report which was also received in 1997.

   Under the Price-Anderson Amendments Act of 1988 (1988 Act), IESU and WP&L
   currently have the benefit of public liability coverage which would
   compensate the public in the event of an accident at a commercial nuclear
   power plant.  The 1988 Act permits such coverage to rise with increased
   availability of nuclear insurance and the changing number of operating
   nuclear plants subject to retroactive premium assessments.  The 1988 Act
   provides for inflation indexing (Consumer Price Index every fifth year) of
   the retroactive premium assessments.

   As an outgrowth of the Three Mile Island Nuclear Power Plant (TMI)
   experience, nuclear plant owners have initiated a cooperative insurance
   program designed to help cover business interruption expenses for
   participating utilities arising from a possible nuclear plant event.  IESU
   and WP&L are participants in this program.  This type of insurance is an
   industry response intended to lessen the cost burden on customers in the
   event of a lengthy plant shutdown.

   In the unlikely event of a catastrophic loss at Kewaunee or the DAEC, the
   amount of insurance available may not be adequate to cover property
   damage, decontamination and premature decommissioning.  Uninsured losses,
   to the extent not recovered through rates, would be borne by WP&L or IESU
   and could have a material adverse effect on their financial position and
   results of operations.  Refer to Note 11f of the "Notes to Consolidated
   Financial Statements" for a further discussion of insurance matters
   relating to Kewaunee.

   Kewaunee

   WPSC purchases uranium concentrates, conversion services, enrichment
   services, and fabrication services for nuclear fuel assemblies at
   Kewaunee.  New fuel assemblies replace used assemblies that are removed
   from the reactor every 18 months and placed in storage at the plant site
   pending removal by the DOE.  Uranium concentrates, conversion services,
   and enrichment services are purchased at spot market prices, through a bid
   process, or using existing contracts.

   A uranium inventory policy requires that sufficient inventory exist for up
   to two reactor reloads of fuel.  As of December 31, 1997,  960,000 pounds
   of yellowcake or its equivalent were held in inventory for Kewaunee.  

   Two contracts are in place to provide conversion services for Kewaunee
   nuclear fuel for reloads in 1998 and 2000.  A contract with Cogema, Inc.
   provides a fixed quantity of enrichment services through the year 2001. 
   Additional enrichment services will be acquired under a contract with the
   United States Enrichment Corporation which is in effect for the life of
   Kewaunee or by purchases on the spot market.  A contract with Siemens
   Power Corporation provides fuel fabrication services through March 15,
   2001, for Kewaunee.  This contract contains force majeure and termination
   provisions.

   If, for any reason, Kewaunee was forced to suspend operations permanently,
   fuel-related obligations are as follows:  (1) there are no financial
   penalties associated with the present uranium supply, conversion service,
   and enrichment agreements, and (2) the fuel fabrication contract contains
   force majeure and termination provisions.  As of the end of 1997, the
   maximum exposure would not be expected to exceed $550,000.  Uranium
   inventories could be sold on the spot market.

   DAEC

   A contract for enrichment services and enriched uranium product was signed
   with the United States Enrichment Corporation (USEC) in 1995, which has
   reduced IESU's enrichment and uranium costs.  This contract will be
   effective through 2001 and may extend beyond 2001 if certain conditions
   occur.  Fabrication of the nuclear fuel is being performed by General
   Electric Company for fuel through the 2008 refueling of the DAEC.  IESU
   believes that an ample supply of uranium and enrichment services will be
   available in the future and intends to purchase such uranium and
   enrichment services as necessary on the spot market and/or via medium
   length (less than five years) contracts to supplement its current
   contracts and meet its generation requirements.

   Refer to "Other Matters - Environmental" and "Liquidity and Capital
   Resources - Capital Requirements" in Item 7. MD&A for a discussion of
   various other nuclear issues relating to Kewaunee and the DAEC.

   Power Supply

   Refer to "Other Matters - Power Supply" in Item 7. MD&A for a discussion
   of power supply concerns in the State of Wisconsin. 

   Electric Environmental Matters

   WPLH is regulated in environmental protection matters by a number of
   federal, state and local agencies.  Such regulations are the result of a
   number of environmental protection laws passed by the U.S. Congress, state
   legislatures and local governments and enforced by federal, state and
   county agencies.  The laws impacting WPLH's operations include the Clean
   Water Act; Clean Air Act, as amended by the Clean Air Act Amendments of
   1990; National Environmental Policy Act; Resource Conservation and
   Recovery Act; Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and
   Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA), as amended by the Superfund Amendments and
   Reauthorization Act of 1986; Occupational Safety and Health Act; National
   Energy Policy Act of 1992 and a number of others.  WPLH regularly secures
   and renews federal, state and local permits to comply with the
   environmental protection laws and regulations.  Costs associated with such
   compliance have increased in recent years and are expected to increase
   moderately in the future.

   Refer to "Other Matters - Environmental" in Item 7. MD&A for a further
   discussion of electric environmental matters.

   

   GAS OPERATIONS

   With the advent of Order 636 as promulgated by FERC, the nature of WP&L,
   IESU and IPC's gas supply portfolios have changed.  Order 636, among other
   things, eliminated the interstate pipelines' obligation to serve and now
   requires WP&L, IESU and IPC to purchase virtually 100% of their gas supply
   requirements from non-pipeline suppliers. In addition, Order 636 has
   enhanced access to competitively-priced gas supply and more flexible
   transportation services.

   WP&L General

   As of December 31, 1997, WP&L provided retail natural gas service to
   approximately 155,000 customers in 243 cities, villages and towns in 22
   counties in southern and central Wisconsin and one county in northern
   Illinois.  Gas operations represented 19.6% of WP&L's total operating
   revenues and 9.8% of WP&L's total operating income for the year ended
   December 31, 1997. 

   WP&L's gas sales follow a seasonal pattern.  There is an annual base load
   of gas used for heating, cooking, water heating and other purposes, with a
   large peak occurring during the heating season.  

   WP&L Gas Supplies

   Prior to 1995, WP&L passed on its costs incurred from natural gas
   suppliers and pipeline companies on a dollar-for-dollar basis to its
   customers.  In 1995, the PSCW approved implementation of a performance-
   based rate mechanism for Wisconsin gas customers.  Under this mechanism,
   fluctuations in the commodity cost of gas above or below a prescribed
   commodity price index will increase or decrease WP&L's margin on gas
   sales.  Both benefits and exposures are subject to customer sharing
   provisions.  Effective with the UR-110 rate order on April 29, 1997, to
   the extent WP&L purchases its gas supply below the index price, WP&L will
   retain 40% of the savings.  The balance of the savings is returned to
   customers.  The same sharing mechanism exists for gas that is purchased at
   a cost above the index price.

   In providing gas commodity service to retail gas customers, WP&L
   administers a diversified portfolio of transportation contracts with ANR
   Pipeline (ANR) and Northern Natural Gas Company (NNG) allowing access to
   gas supplies from the states of Oklahoma, Louisiana, Texas, and the
   province of Alberta, Canada.  WP&L's transportation contracts provide a
   maximum daily delivery capability of 242,580 dekatherms (Dth) per day of
   natural gas as follows:

         ANR                       NNG            Non-Traditional
      122,124  Dth              75,056 Dth          45,400 Dth

   Two non-traditional arrangements provide WP&L with gas delivered directly
   to its "city gate" using the vendors' transportation contract with ANR
   Pipeline. 

   WP&L's contracts also allow access to gas stored in underground storage
   fields in the states of Michigan, New Mexico and Oklahoma.  Gas purchased
   in the summer and delivered in the winter comprise approximately 24% of
   WP&L's annual gas requirements.  

   WP&L maintains purchase agreements with over 50 suppliers of natural gas
   from all gas producing regions of the U.S. and Canada.  These include six
   contracts providing for long-term gas deliveries (i.e., with terms ranging
   from six months to ten years).  These contracts provided 54% of WP&L's
   annual gas purchases in 1997.  In addition to its direct purchase and
   sales of natural gas, WP&L provided transportation service to 178
   customers who purchased their own gas, pursuant to WP&L's transportation
   tariffs.  These customers represent approximately 40% of total gas moved
   through WP&L's natural gas distribution pipe. 

   Refer to Note 11b of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for
   a discussion of WP&L's long-term purchase gas commitments.

   IESU Gas Supplies

   Contracts with the pipelines subsequent to Order 636 are comprised
   primarily of firm transportation, firm storage and no-notice service. 
   Firm transportation contracts grant IESU access to firm pipeline capacity
   which is used to transport gas supplies from non-pipeline suppliers on
   peak day.  Firm storage service allows IESU to purchase gas during off-
   peak periods and place this gas in an account with the pipelines.  When
   the gas is needed for peak day deliveries, IESU requests and the pipelines
   deliver the gas back on a firm basis.  No-notice service grants IESU the
   right to take more or less gas than is actually scheduled up to the level
   of no-notice service.  No-notice service takes the form of transportation
   balancing or storage service depending on the pipeline.

   IESU's portfolio of firm transportation, firm storage and no-notice
   service from pipelines is as follows:

                                   Firm            Firm
                              Transportation      Storage      No-Notice

    NNG:
      Volume (Dth/day)           143,996          60,706         10,000
      Expiration date            10/31/99        10/31/99       10/31/99

    Natural Gas Pipeline
    Co. of America (NGPL):
      Volume (Dth/day)            28,605          34,014          996
      Expiration date           11/30/2000       11/30/98       11/30/98

    ANR:
      Volume (Dth/day)            60,737          19,180         5,000
      Expiration date           10/31/2003      10/31/2003     10/31/2003

   Gas supply is purchased from a variety of non-pipeline suppliers located
   in the United States and Canada having access to virtually all major
   natural gas producing regions.

   IESU has firm gas supply agreements with various non-pipeline suppliers. 
   These gas supply agreements have maximum and minimum obligations and will
   be delivered through gas transmission pipelines as follows:

                       Maximum            Minimum
                    Daily Quantity     Daily Quantity
                      (Dth/day)          (Dth/day)

    NNG                 96,486             73,545
    NGPL                38,575             25,575
    ANR                 25,000             20,000

   These gas supply contracts have expiration dates ranging from a few months
   to almost four years.  Rates charged by IESU's suppliers are subject to
   regulation by the FERC.  IESU's tariffs provide for subsequent adjustments
   to its natural gas rates for changes in the cost of natural gas purchased
   for resale.

   IPC Gas Supplies

   IPC purchases pipeline transportation capacity from NNG, NGPL and Northern
   Border Pipeline Company (NBPL).  During 1997, IPC purchased gas from non-
   traditional suppliers, i.e. producers, brokers and marketers, at market
   responsive rates.  Order 636 unbundled pipeline supply from its capacity. 
   Subsequent to Order 636, FERC continues to approve the tariffs of NNG and
   NGPL, but only with regard to capacity and storage rates, subject to
   change as rate cases are filed.

   Gas for IPC's Mason City, Albert Lea and Savanna service areas is
   transported by NNG under capacity contracts for 36,338 Dth per day, and
   for an additional 15,657 Dth in the November to March time frame.  The
   majority, 26,999 Dth, of the above capacities is from the producing areas
   of Oklahoma and Texas, etc.  These contracts expire in October 1999.  Gas
   is supplied by producers, marketers and brokers, as well as from storage
   services, to meet the peak heating season requirements. 

   Gas for IPC's Clinton service area is transported by NGPL under capacity
   contracts for 17,750 Dth annually, with expiration dates of November 30,
   1998, February 28, 1999, and two as of November 30, 2001.  This gas is
   supplied by producers, marketers and brokers.  IPC supplements this
   capacity with storage gas, which has the pipeline capacity embedded in its
   FERC approved rate.  

   IPC owns propane-air mix gas plants in Albert Lea, Minnesota and Clinton
   and Mason City, Iowa.  The daily output capacities are:  5,000 Dth, 4,000
   Dth and 9,600 Dth, respectively.

   IPC's tariffs provide for subsequent adjustments to its natural gas rates
   for changes in the cost of natural gas purchased for resale.

   Gas Environmental Matters

   Refer to "Other Matters - Environmental" in Item 7. MD&A for a discussion
   of gas environmental matters as well as Item 3. "Legal Proceedings" for
   additional information related to manufactured gas plant (MGP) sites. 

   


   D. INFORMATION RELATING TO NONREGULATED OPERATIONS

   A description of HDC's businesses at December 31, 1997 is as follows:

   Environmental and Engineering Consulting

   Heartland Environmental Holding Company (HEHC), a wholly-owned subsidiary
   of HDC, is the holding company for HDC's environmental and engineering
   services activities.  HEHC's primary subsidiary is RMT, Inc. (RMT).  RMT
   is a Madison, Wisconsin based environmental and engineering consulting
   company that serves clients nationwide in a variety of industrial market
   segments.  The most significant of these markets are chemical companies,
   pulp and paper processors, oil and gas providers, foundries and other
   manufacturers.  RMT specializes in solid and hazardous waste management,
   ground water quality protection, industrial design and hygiene
   engineering, and air and water pollution control.

   Affordable Housing

   Formed by HDC in 1988, Heartland Properties, Inc. (HPI) is responsible for
   performing asset management, facilitating the development of and financing
   high quality, affordable housing in Wisconsin and the Midwest.  HPI has a
   majority ownership interest in 60 such properties.  As of December 31,
   1997, HPI's investment in affordable housing properties was $100 million,
   net of depreciation. 

   To facilitate HPI's development and financing efforts in the affordable
   housing market, HDC incorporated Capital Square Financial Corporation in
   1992 to provide mortgage banking services.  Heartland Capital Company LLC,
   which was formed in 1994 to provide construction financing services, was
   liquidated during 1997.

   Energy Services

   Heartland Energy Group, Inc (HEG) was formed in 1995 as the parent company
   for HDC's energy services businesses.  The two most significant components
   of HEG prior to 1997 were Heartland Energy Services, Inc. (HES) and
   ENSERV, Inc.

   HES, formed in 1993, provided energy supplies to industrial and wholesale
   customers.  Beginning in 1994, HES actively bought and sold natural gas. 
   In January 1997, HES's natural gas business was combined in a joint
   venture with Industrial Energy Applications, Inc. (IEA), the energy
   marketing subsidiary of IES.

   HES received federal marketing authority for electricity in September
   1994.  HES continued to buy and sell electricity through 1997.  In July
   1997, WPLH announced a joint venture with Cargill Incorporated to market
   electricity and risk management services to wholesale buyers.  This joint
   venture, in which the Merged Company has a 50% ownership interest, is
   named Cargill-Alliant.  HES's electricity business was part of WPLH's
   initial capital contribution to the joint venture.

   ENSERV offered turnkey project development and implementation for customer
   energy supply initiatives.    In January 1997, ENSERV was part of HDC's
   contribution to the joint venture with IEA.

   In the event the Merger is consummated, the nonregulated businesses of
   IES, for which Diversified is the parent corporation, will become part of
   the Merged Company.  A description of Diversified's businesses at December
   31, 1997 is as follows:

   IES Transportation is a holding company whose wholly-owned subsidiaries at
   December 31, 1997, included the Cedar Rapids and Iowa City Railway Company
   (CRANDIC) and IES Transfer Services Inc. (Transfer).  CRANDIC is a
   short-line railway which renders freight service between Cedar Rapids and
   Iowa City.  Transfer's operations include transloading and storage
   services.  IES Transportation also has a 75% equity investment in IEI
   Barge Services, Inc. (Barge) which provides barge terminal and hauling
   service on the Mississippi River.  In addition, IES Transportation has
   investments in two Iowa railroad companies.

   IES Energy is a holding company whose wholly-owned subsidiaries at
   December 31, 1997, included IEA and Whiting Petroleum Corporation
   (Whiting).  IEA offers commodities-based and facilities-based energy
   services for customers, including supplying natural gas and electricity,
   standby generation, cogeneration, steam production and propane air
   systems.  Whiting is organized to purchase, develop and produce crude oil
   and natural gas. 

   IES Investments is a holding company whose primary wholly-owned
   subsidiaries at December 31, 1997, included Iowa Land and Building Company
   (Iowa Land), IES Investco Inc. (Investco) and Village Lakeshares, Inc.
   (Lakeshares).  Iowa Land is organized to pursue real estate and economic
   development activities in Utilities' service territory.  Investco is a
   holding company for certain equity investments.  Lakeshares is a holding
   company for resort properties in Iowa.  IES Investments also has direct
   and indirect equity interests in various real estate ventures, primarily
   concentrated in Cedar Rapids, and holds other passive investments.

   At December 31, 1997, IES Investments held an investment in the stock of
   McLeodUSA Inc. (McLeod), a telecommunications company, valued at $327
   million (as compared to a cost basis of $29 million).  Pursuant to the
   applicable accounting rules, the carrying value of the investment is
   adjusted to the estimated fair value each quarter based on the closing
   price at the end of the quarter.  The adjustment does not impact earnings
   as the unrealized gain or loss, net of taxes, is recorded directly to the
   common equity section of the balance sheet.  In addition, any such gain or
   loss is reflected in current earnings only at the time it is realized
   through a sale.   IES Investments has entered into an agreement with
   McLeod which restricts the sale or disposal of its shares without the
   consent of the McLeod Board of Directors until September 1998. 

   IES International is a holding company whose wholly-owned subsidiaries are
   IES New Zealand Limited (IES New Zealand), Interstate Energy Corporation
   Pte Ltd. (IECP) and IES Brazil Inc.  IES New Zealand has equity
   investments in two New Zealand electric distribution entities.  IECP has a
   50% equity investment in two individual cogeneration facilities in China:
   JIES Heat and Power Ltd. and TIES Heat and Power Ltd.  None of the
   investments under IES International are consolidated, therefore IES
   International has no operating revenues.  IES Brazil Inc. has been formed
   for the purposes of potential future investments in Brazil.  IES
   Investments also has several investments in foreign entities, including a
   loan to a New Zealand company and an investment in an international
   venture capital fund.  These investments are considered international
   investments for management purposes.  

   Refer to "Other Matters - Environmental" in Item 7. MD&A for a discussion
   of an environmental matter at Whiting.

   ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

   WP&L

   WP&L's principal electric generating stations at December 31, 1997, were
   as follows:

   


   WP&L owns 2,701 miles of electric transmission lines and 362 substations
   located adjacent to the communities served.  Substantially all of WP&L's
   facilities are subject to the lien of its first mortgage bond indenture.

   IESU

   IESU's  principal electric generating stations at December 31, 1997, were
   as follows:

   

   At December 31, 1997, the transmission lines of IESU, operating from
   34,000 to 345,000 volts, approximated 4,440 circuit miles (substantially
   all located in Iowa).  IESU owned 579 substations (substantially all
   located in Iowa).

   IESU's principal properties are suitable for their intended use and are
   held subject to liens of indentures relating to its bonds.

   IPC

   IPC's principal electric generating stations at December 31, 1997, were as
   follows:

   

   IPC owns 2,545 miles of electric transmission lines and 224 substations
   located in Iowa, Illinois and Minnesota.  Substantially all of IPC's
   facilities are subject to the lien of its bond indenture securing IPC's
   outstanding first mortgage bonds.

   HDC

   The following table gives information as of December 31, 1997 with respect
   to rental properties associated with HDC's affordable housing project
   developments, through its HPI subsidiary.

                           
    Location               Housing Development         Resident Type
    Property:
       Antigo, WI          The Depot                   Families
       Appleton, WI        Lincoln Mills               Families/Elderly
       Appelton, WI        Ravine Mills                Families/Elderly
       Appelton, WI        The Mills II                Families/Elderly
       Beloit, WI          Beloit Water Tower Place    Families
       Chisholm, MN        Lincoln Square              Families
       DePere, WI          Lawton Foundry              Families
       Madison, WI         The Avenue                  Disabled/Families
       Marinett, WI        Dunlap Square               Families/Elderly
       Marshfield, WI      The Woodlands               Families/Elderly
       Mc Farland, WI      The Cottages                Families/Elderly
       Sheboygan Falls,WI  Brickner Woolen Mills       Families/Elderly
       Sheboygan, WI       Jung Apartments             Families
       Sheboygan, WI       Sunnyside Townhouses        Families
       Sun Prairie, WI     Vandenburg Heights          Families
       Verona, WI          Sugar Creek Senior
                             Housing                   Elderly
       Madison, WI         YWCA                        Women & Homeless
       Various             Other                       Families, Elderly,
                                                       Singles, Disabled &
                                                       Homeless

   Occupancy rates in the 60 properties/investments owned by HPI averaged 91%
   during 1997.  

   HPI also maintains a minor equity ownership in development properties
   where the majority interest was subsequently sold to outside investors. 
   This equity ownership is not considered material in relation to  WPLH's
   consolidated financial statements.  HPI remains contingently liable for
   minimum property financial performance guarantees for a period of time on
   many of the properties sold.  Those contingent obligations have been
   accrued for or are otherwise not considered likely to have a material
   effect on WPLH's consolidated financial statements.

   Diversified

   Diversified also owns property which primarily represents investments in
   transportation, energy-related, telecommunications and real estate
   properties.

   ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

   WP&L

   On July 20, 1995, the City of Beloit (Beloit) filed a suit against WP&L in
   the Circuit Court of Rock County, Wisconsin alleging that, based on
   negligence, nuisance and trespass, WP&L caused damage to Beloit through
   the contamination of property owned by Beloit as a result of the
   historical operation of manufactured gas plants on the property prior to
   Beloit's acquisition of the property.  The suit seeks damages equal to the
   cost of cleaning up the property, for decrease in the value of the
   property, and to compensate Beloit for lost development opportunities for
   the property as well as consequential damages and costs of the action.

   Beloit and WP&L entered into a settlement agreement whereby WP&L will pay
   $3.3 million of the expected $3.8 million cost of remediating the
   property.  Costs in excess of $3.8 million will be split between WP&L and
   Beloit on a 90%/10% basis with WP&L paying the 90%.  WP&L currently
   believes that these costs will be recoverable in rates.  In addition, WP&L
   intends to seek to recover the payment from insurers.  

   In management's judgment, the probability is remote that this action will
   have a material adverse impact on WPLH's financial condition. 

   IES 

   On April 30, 1996, IESU filed suit, IES Utilities Inc. v. Home Ins. Co.,
   et al., No. 4-96-CV-10343 (S.D. Iowa filed Apr. 30, 1996), against various
   insurers who had sold comprehensive general liability policies to Iowa
   Southern Utilities Company (ISU) and Iowa Electric Light and Power Company
   (IE) (IESU was formed as the result of a merger of ISU and IE).  The suit
   seeks judicial determination of the respective rights of the parties, a
   judgment that each defendant is obligated under its respective insurance
   policies to pay in full all sums that IESU has become or may become
   obligated to pay in connection with its defense against allegations of
   liability for property damage at and around MGP sites, and indemnification
   for all sums that it has or may become obligated to pay for the
   investigation, mitigation, prevention, remediation and monitoring of
   environmental impacts to property, including natural resources like
   groundwater, at and around the MGP sites. Settlement discussions are
   proceeding between IESU and its insurance carriers regarding the recovery
   of these MGP-related costs.  Settlement has been reached with sixteen
   carriers thus far.  Any amounts received from insurance carriers are being
   deferred pending a determination of the regulatory treatment of such
   recoveries.

   IES, Diversified, IES Energy, MicroFuel Corporation (the Corporation) now
   known as Ely, Inc. in which IES Energy has a 69.40% equity ownership, and
   other parties have been sued in Linn County District Court in Cedar
   Rapids, Iowa, by Allen C. Wiley.  Mr. Wiley claims money damages on
   various tort and contract theories arising out of the 1992 sale of the
   assets of the Corporation, of which Mr. Wiley was a director and
   shareholder.  All of the defendants in Mr. Wiley's suit answered the
   complaint and denied liability.  IES and Diversified were dismissed from
   the suit in a motion for summary judgment.  In addition, a grant of
   summary judgment has reduced Mr. Wiley's claims against the remaining
   parties to breach of fiduciary duty.  A separate motion for summary
   judgment, which was filed seeking dismissal of the remaining claims
   against the remaining parties, was overruled on September 20, 1996, and
   the trial has been set for May 1998.  All of the defendants are vigorously
   contesting the claims.

   The Corporation commenced a separate suit to determine the fair value of
   Mr. Wiley's shares under Iowa Code section 490.  A decision was issued on
   August 31, 1994, by the Linn County District Court ruling that the value
   of Mr. Wiley's shares was $377,600 based on a 40 cents per share
   valuation. The Corporation contended that the value of Mr. Wiley's shares
   was 2.5 cents per share.  The Decision was appealed to the Iowa Supreme
   Court by the Corporation on a number of issues, including the
   Corporation's position that the trial court erred as a matter of law in
   discounting the testimony of the Corporation's expert witness.  The Iowa
   Supreme Court assigned the case to the Iowa Court of Appeals.  On February
   2, 1996, the Iowa Court of Appeals reversed the District Court ruling
   after determining the District Court erred in discounting the expert
   testimony.  The case was remanded back to the District Court for
   consideration of the expert testimony, but with no additional evidence
   taken.  The District Court re-affirmed its original decision on August 28,
   1996, and the Corporation has again appealed to the Iowa Supreme Court. 
   The case has been reassigned to the Iowa Court of Appeals without oral
   argument.

   On October 3, 1996, Lambda Energy Marketing Company, L. C. (Lambda) filed
   a request with the IUB that the IUB initiate formal complaint proceedings
   against IESU.  Lambda alleged that IESU was discriminating against it by
   refusing to enter into contracts with it for remote displacement service
   and by favoring IEA, a subsidiary of IES, in such matters.  On October 17,
   1996, IESU filed a Response which denied the allegations, and alleged,
   inter alia, that Lambda was unlawfully attempting to provide retail
   electrical services in IESU's exclusive service territory.  On August 25,
   1997, the IUB issued its Final Decision and Order rejecting Lambda's
   complaint.  On October 10, 1997, the IUB issued its rehearing order which
   again rejected Lambda's complaint.

   On October 9, 1996, the IES filed a civil suit in the Iowa District Court
   in and for Linn County against Lambda, Robert Latham, Louie Ervin, and
   David Charles (three former employees of IES and/or its subsidiaries),
   collectively the "Defendants", alleging, inter alia, violations of Iowa's
   trade secret act and interference with existing and prospective business
   advantage.  On November 1, 1996, the Defendants filed their Answer and
   Counterclaims alleging, inter alia, violation of Iowa competition law,
   tortious interference and commercial disparagement.  The Defendants
   therewith also filed a Third-Party Petition against IESU, IEA and Lee Liu,
   Chairman of the Board & Chief Executive Officer of IES and IESU, alleging,
   inter alia, tortious interference and commercial disparagement. 

   IPC

   There are no material pending legal proceedings, or proceedings known to
   be contemplated by governmental authorities, other than ordinary routine
   litigation incidental to the business, to which IPC is a party or of which
   any of IPC's property is the subject.

   Environmental Matters

   The information required by Item 3 is included in this Annual Report on
   Form 10-K under Item 8. "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements," 
   Note 11c and "Other Matters - Environmental" in Item 7. MD&A.

   Rate Matters

   The information required by Item 3 is included in "Liquidity and Capital
   Resources - Rates and Regulatory Matters" in Item 7. MD&A.

   ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

   None. 

                                     PART II

   ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
   MATTERS

   WPLH's Common Stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange.  Quarterly
   Price Ranges and Dividends with respect to the Common Stock were as
   follows:

   

   Stock price at December 31, 1997:  $33 1/8

   At December 31, 1997, there were approximately 35,677 holders of record of
   WPLH's stock including underlying holders in WPLH's Shareowner Direct
   Plan.

   WPLH is the sole common shareowner of all 13,236,601 shares of WP&L Common
   Stock currently outstanding.  Cash dividends paid per share of WP&L's
   Common Stock during 1997 and 1996 to WPLH were $4.41 and $4.99,
   respectively.

   In the retail rate order effective April 29, 1997, the PSCW ordered that
   it must approve the payment of dividends by WP&L to its parent company
   that are in excess of the level forecasted in the rate order ($58.3
   million), if such dividends would reduce WP&L's average common equity
   ratio below 52.00% of total capitalization.  Based on a 13-month average
   for 1997, WP&L's common equity ratio was 52.56%.

   In accordance with the terms of the Merger (refer to Item 1. "Business -
   Merger" above), WPLH is not permitted to declare or pay any dividends on
   any of its capital stock other than the obligations that exist with
   respect to WP&L's Cumulative Preferred Stock, and regular quarterly
   dividends on WPLH's Common Stock may not exceed 105% of the common stock
   dividends from the prior year.

   


   ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
   RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (MD&A)


                                     MERGER

   WPL Holdings, Inc. (WPLH), IES Industries Inc. (IES) and Interstate Power
   Company (IPC) are in the process of completing a three-way merger (Merger)
   forming Interstate Energy Corporation (Merged Company).  In connection
   with the Merger, IES will be merged with and into WPLH forming the Merged
   Company and IPC will become a subsidiary of the Merged Company.  In
   addition, following the Merger, the holding companies for the nonregulated
   businesses of the former WPLH and IES (Heartland Development Corporation
   (HDC) and IES Diversified Inc. (Diversified), respectively) will be merged
   into each other.  The resulting company from this merger is referred to as
   New Diversified.  As a result of the Merger, the first tier subsidiaries
   of the Merged Company will include: Wisconsin Power & Light Company
   (WP&L), IES Utilities Inc. (IESU), IPC, New Diversified and Alliant
   Services Company (the subsidiary formed to provide administrative services
   as required under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935).  Among
   various other regulatory constraints, the Merged Company will operate as a
   registered public utility holding company subject to the limitations
   imposed by the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935.  For additional
   information regarding the terms of the Merger, see Note 2 of the "Notes to
   Consolidated Financial Statements" of WPLH included elsewhere in this
   Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

   The merger partners currently anticipate cost savings resulting from the
   Merger of approximately $749 million over a ten-year period, net of
   transaction costs and costs to achieve the savings of approximately $78
   million.  Approximately $22 million of these costs had been incurred
   through December 31, 1997.  Upon consummation of the Merger, the merger
   partners estimate the Merged Company will expense approximately $40
   million of additional merger-related costs (e.g., required payments to or
   for financial advisors, employee retirements and separations, attorneys,
   accountants, etc.).  The estimate of potential cost savings constitutes a
   forward-looking statement and actual results may differ materially from
   this estimate.  The estimate is necessarily based upon various assumptions
   that involve judgments with respect to, among other things, future
   national and regional economic and competitive conditions, technological
   developments, inflation rates, regulatory treatments, weather conditions,
   financial market conditions, future business decisions and other
   uncertainties.  No assurance can be given that the entire amount of
   estimated cost savings will actually be realized. In addition, the
   allocation between WPLH, IES and IPC and their customers of the estimated
   cost savings of approximately $749 million over ten years resulting from
   the Merger, net of costs incurred to achieve such savings, will be subject
   to regulatory review and approval. 

   As part of the approval process for the Merger, the Merged Company has
   agreed to various rate freezes and rate caps to be implemented in certain
   jurisdictions for periods not to exceed four years commencing on the
   effective date of the Merger (see "Liquidity and Capital Resources - Rates
   and Regulatory Matters" for a further discussion). 

   Assuming capture of the anticipated merger-related synergies and no
   significant legislative or regulatory changes affecting the Merged
   Company, the Merged Company does not expect the merger-related electric
   and natural gas price freezes to have a material adverse effect on its
   financial position or results of operations.

   Given that management believes the Merger will be consummated in the
   second quarter of 1998, additional information has been included below
   regarding WPLH's merger partners, IES and IPC.  The information regarding
   IES and IPC as well as the Merged Company is generally prospective in
   nature and has been included to enhance the reader's understanding of the
   Merged Company.  


                           FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

   Statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (including MD&A)
   that are not of historical fact are forward-looking statements intended to
   qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private
   Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  From time to time, WPLH may
   make other forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal
   securities laws that involve judgments, assumptions and other
   uncertainties beyond the control of WPLH.  These forward-looking
   statements may include, among others, statements concerning revenue and
   cost trends, cost recovery, cost reduction strategies and anticipated
   outcomes, pricing strategies, changes in the utility industry, planned
   capital expenditures, financing needs and availability, statements of
   WPLH's expectations, beliefs, future plans and strategies, anticipated
   events or trends and similar comments concerning matters that are not
   historical facts.  Investors and other users of the forward-looking
   statements are cautioned that such statements are not a guarantee of
   future performance of WPLH and that such forward-looking statements are
   subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to
   differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, such statements. 
   Some, but not all, of the risks and uncertainties include weather effects
   on sales and revenues, competitive factors, general economic conditions in
   WPLH's service territory, federal and state regulatory or government
   actions, the operations of WPLH's nuclear facilities, the potential that
   the Merger will not be consummated, the ability of the parties to
   successfully integrate the operations of WPLH, IES and IPC assuming the
   Merger is consummated and changes in the rate of inflation.


                            UTILITY INDUSTRY OUTLOOK

   The merger partners compete in an ever-changing utility industry.  Set forth
   below is an overview of this evolving marketplace.  

   Electric energy generation, transmission, and distribution are in a period
   of fundamental change in the manner in which customers obtain, and energy
   suppliers provide, energy services.  As legislative, regulatory, economic
   and technological changes occur, electric utilities are faced with
   increasing pressure to become more competitive. Such competitive pressures
   could result in loss of customers and an incurrence of stranded costs
   (i.e., assets and other costs rendered unrecoverable as the result of
   competitive pricing).  To the extent stranded costs cannot be recovered
   from customers, they would be borne by security holders.

   On a combined basis, the merger partners realized 54%, 41%, 3% and 2% of
   their electric utility revenues in 1997 in Iowa, Wisconsin, Minnesota and
   Illinois, respectively.  Approximately 87% of the electric revenues were
   regulated by the respective state commissions while the other 13% were
   regulated by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC).  On a
   combined basis, the merger partners realized 56%, 38%, 3% and 3% of their
   gas utility revenues in Iowa, Wisconsin, Minnesota and Illinois,
   respectively. 

   Federal Regulation

   IESU, IPC and WP&L are all subject to regulation by the FERC.  The
   National Energy Policy Act of 1992 addresses several matters designed to
   promote competition in the electric wholesale power generation market.  In
   1996, the FERC issued final rules (FERC Orders 888 and 889) requiring
   electric utilities to open their transmission lines to other wholesale
   buyers and sellers of electricity.   In March 1997, FERC issued orders on
   rehearing for Orders 888 and 889 (Orders 888-A and 889-A).   In response
   to FERC Orders 888 and 888-A, IESU, WP&L and IPC have on file with the
   FERC pro forma open access transmission tariffs.   In response to FERC
   Orders 889 and 889-A, each of the three utility subsidiaries is
   participating in a regional Open Access Same-Time Information System.  The
   utility subsidiaries cannot predict the long-term consequences of these
   rules on their results of operations or financial condition. 
    
   FERC Order 888 permits utilities to seek recovery of legitimate, prudent
   and verifiable stranded costs associated with providing open access and
   transmission services.  FERC does not have jurisdiction over retail
   distribution and, consequently, the final FERC rules do not provide for
   the recovery of stranded costs resulting from retail competition.  The
   various states retain jurisdiction over the question of whether to permit
   retail competition, the terms of such retail competition, and the recovery
   of any portion of stranded costs that are ultimately determined to have
   resulted from retail competition.

   State Regulation

   Iowa

   IESU and IPC are subject to regulation by the Iowa Utilities Board  (IUB). 
   The IUB initiated a Notice of Inquiry (Docket No. NOI-95-1) in early 1995
   on the subject of "Emerging Competition in the Electric Utility Industry"
   to address all forms of competition in the electric utility industry and
   to gather information and perspectives on electric competition from all
   persons or entities with an interest or stake in the issues.  The IUB
   staff's report in this docket was accepted by the IUB, finding, in part,
   that there is no compelling reason to move quickly into restructuring the
   electric utility industry in Iowa, based upon the existing level of
   relative prices.  However, the IUB is continuing the analysis and debate
   on restructuring and retail competition in Iowa.

   On August 18, 1997, the IUB issued an order that promulgated draft
   principles for an Independent System Operator (ISO) and invited public
   comment.  On September 10, 1997, the IUB issued an order adopting an
   "Action Plan to Develop a Competitive Model for the Electric Industry in
   Iowa."  The IUB states in this action plan that while "the IUB has not
   determined retail competition in the electric industry is in the best
   interests of Iowa's consumers...", the State of Iowa is likely to be
   affected by federal or neighboring states' actions so there is a need for
   the IUB to design a model that suits Iowa's needs.  The priority concerns
   in the plan are public interest issues (an Iowa-specific pilot project,
   customer information and assessment, environmental impacts, public
   benefits and transition costs/benefits) and transmission-related issues
   (transmission and distribution system reliability and transmission system
   operations).  There is no timetable in the action plan.  On October 2,
   1997, the IUB staff sent to the advisory group (of which IESU and IPC are
   members) for written comment a set of proposed guidelines for an Iowa-
   specific electric pilot project that would allow retail access to a
   "subset of all customer classes."  IESU has indicated to the IUB its
   interest in pursuing such a pilot program.  The IUB has also issued an
   order covering unbundling of natural gas rates for all Iowa customers to
   be effective in 1999.

   Wisconsin

   WP&L is subject to regulation by the Public Service Commission of
   Wisconsin (PSCW).  The PSCW's inquiries into the future structure of the
   natural gas and electric utility industries are ongoing.  The stated goal
   of the PSCW in the natural gas docket is "to accommodate competition but
   not create it."  The PSCW has followed a measured approach to
   restructuring the natural gas industry in Wisconsin.  The PSCW has
   determined that customer classes will be deregulated (i.e., the gas
   utility would no longer have an obligation to procure gas commodity for
   customers, but would still have a delivery obligation) in a step-wise
   manner, after each class has been demonstrated to have a sufficient number
   of gas suppliers available.  In 1997, a number of working groups were
   established by the PSCW and these working groups are addressing numerous
   subjects which need to be resolved before deregulation may proceed.

   The short-term goals of the electric restructuring process are to ensure
   reliability of the state's electric system and development of a robust
   wholesale electric market.  The longer-term goal is to establish
   prerequisite safeguards to protect customers prior to allowing retail
   customer choice.  The PSCW is following a timetable to make this latter
   determination on allowing customer choice in 1999-2000.

   On September 26, 1996, the PSCW issued an order which establishes the
   minimum standards for a Wisconsin ISO. The standards will be applied by
   the PSCW in Advance Plan proceedings, merger review cases, transmission
   construction cases and other proceedings as appropriate.  The order
   provides that the standards will be reviewed and revised as necessary in
   light of ongoing regional and national events, such as FERC requirements
   or policy, regional institutions, or relevant actions of neighboring
   states. In approving the Merger, the PSCW gave the merger partners a
   choice of either filing their own ISO proposal, giving notice of their
   intent to join a regional ISO or spinning off existing transmission assets
   and operations into a separate independent transmission company.  IESU,
   IPC and WP&L developed an ISO proposal of their own.  However, the PSCW
   did not believe it met the PSCW's ISO guidelines.  IESU, IPC and WP&L
   subsequently asked the PSCW to permit them to join the Midwest ISO, a
   regional ISO that has been filed with FERC.  The member companies of the
   ISO would retain ownership of the facilities, but the ISO would assume
   control of the facilities, set rates for access and assure fair treatment
   for all companies seeking access. Various other proposals for ISOs, which
   are being monitored by the merger partners, have been proposed by other
   entities.

   In addition to the ISO proceedings, the PSCW has issued an order outlining
   its policies and principles for Public Benefits (low-income assistance,
   energy efficiency, renewable generation and environmental research and
   development) including funding levels, administration of the funds and how
   funds should be collected from customers.  The PSCW has proposed
   increasing funding levels through utility rates by $50 to $75 million
   statewide. Legislation to implement this proposal is being developed and
   likely will be introduced in 1998.  

   The PSCW has also initiated a Service Quality administrative rulemaking
   process to establish measurement and reporting requirements for
   reliability of service, call center answering times, safety, tree
   trimming, generation, transmission and distribution inspection and
   maintenance plans, etc.  A hearing was held on these issues in March 1998.


   Minnesota

   IPC is subject to regulation by the Minnesota Public Utilities Commission
   (MPUC).  The MPUC established an Electric Competition Working Group in
   April 1995.  On October 28, 1997, the Working Group issued a report and
   recommendations on retail competition.  The MPUC reviewed the report and
   directed its staff to develop an electric utility restructuring plan and
   timeline.  The Minnesota legislature had established a joint legislative
   task force on electric utility restructuring in 1995.  This joint task
   force has generally been inactive the past year.  It appears the earliest
   restructuring legislation could be introduced is in 1999.  

   Illinois

   IPC and WP&L are subject to regulation by the Illinois Commerce
   Commission.  The State of Illinois has passed electric deregulation
   legislation requiring customer choice of electric supplier for all
   customers by May 1, 2002. 

   Summary

   Each of the utilities complies with the provisions of Statement of
   Financial Accounting Standards No. 71 (SFAS 71) "Accounting for the
   Effects of Certain Types of Regulation."  SFAS 71 provides that rate-
   regulated public utilities record certain costs and credits allowed in the
   ratemaking process in different periods than for nonregulated entities.
   These are deferred as regulatory assets or regulatory liabilities and are
   recognized in the consolidated statements of income at the time they are
   reflected in rates.  If a portion of the utility subsidiaries' operations
   becomes no longer subject to the provisions of SFAS 71 as a result of
   competitive restructurings or otherwise, a write-down of related
   regulatory assets and possibly other charges would be required, unless
   some form of transition cost recovery is established by the appropriate
   regulatory body that would meet the requirements under generally accepted
   accounting principles for continued accounting as regulatory assets during
   such recovery period. In addition, each utility subsidiary would be
   required to determine any impairment of other assets and write-down any
   impaired assets to their fair value.  The utility subsidiaries believe
   they meet the requirements of SFAS 71.

   IESU, IPC and WP&L cannot currently predict the long-term consequences of
   the competitive and restructuring issues described above on their results
   of operations or financial condition.  The major objective is to allow the
   utilities to better prepare for a competitive, deregulated utility
   industry.  The strategy for dealing with these emerging issues includes
   seeking growth opportunities, continuing to offer quality customer
   service, ongoing cost reductions and productivity enhancements. 


              WPLH RESULTS OF OPERATIONS - 1997 COMPARED WITH 1996

   Overview

   WPLH reported consolidated net income from continuing operations of $61.3
   million or $1.99 per share for 1997, as compared to $73.2 million or $2.38
   per share for 1996.  Earnings per share for 1997 and 1996 were $1.99 and
   $2.34, respectively, reflecting the impact of discontinued operations. 
   All references to earnings per share throughout MD&A refer to both basic
   and diluted earnings per share.
    
   The decrease in 1997 earnings versus 1996 was primarily the result of
   lower operating income at WP&L and the impact of non-recurring gains which
   contributed 5 cents per share to earnings in 1997 compared to 19 cents in
   1996.

   Gas and electric margins were down $4.2 and $2.0 million, respectively, in
   1997 as compared to 1996.  The decrease in gas margin was primarily due to
   lower weather-driven sales to residential customers as well as a 2.2%
   average retail gas rate decrease which went into effect on April 29, 1997. 
   The lower electric margin was the result of a 2.4% average retail electric
   rate decrease effective April 29, 1997, as well as higher purchased power
   expense due to an extended outage at the Kewaunee Nuclear Power Plant
   (Kewaunee).  Sales to other utilities and continued economic strength in
   WP&L's service territory partially offset the impact of the decline in
   margin.  In addition, income in 1997 was also lower than 1996 due to
   increased expenses for plant maintenance, depreciation and interest. 
    
   HDC, parent company of WPLH's nonregulated operations, reported a loss
   from continuing operations of $2.8 million for 1997 compared with a loss
   from continuing operations of $3.5 million for 1996.  HDC's 1997 results
   reflect improved performance of the energy marketing business. In 1997,
   HDC recognized an after-tax loss of $1.1 million as a result of a write-
   off of nonproductive assets in its environmental and engineering services
   business.  In 1996, HDC recognized an after-tax gain of $2.5 million
   related to the sale of HDC's investment in assisted living properties.

   WPLH also recognized a 1996 after-tax loss of $1.3 million resulting from
   additional fees and expenses related to discontinued operations which is
   discussed in Note 12 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements."

   


   Electric revenues increased $44.7 million, or 8%, in 1997 as compared with
   1996.  Continued customer growth, economic strength in the service area
   and increased sales to other utilities offset the impact of cooler summer
   weather and warmer weather during the winter months of 1997.  Revenues
   were also affected by an average retail rate decrease of 2.4% effective
   April 29, 1997.  Other revenues increased in 1997 compared with 1996 due
   to increases in conservation services. Refer to the "Liquidity and Capital
   Resources - Rates and Regulatory Matters" section below for further
   discussion of these rate modifications.

   Despite higher electric revenues, electric margin decreased $2.0 million,
   or 1%, as compared with 1996.  The decline in margin reflects the impact
   of the shutdown at Kewaunee throughout most of the first half of 1997 for
   steam generator tube repairs as well as several temporary, routine outages
   at WP&L's coal-fired plants through the first five months of 1997.  These 
   outages caused a greater reliance on more costly purchased power to meet
   customer requirements.  The PSCW ordered a temporary customer surcharge
   effective April 29, 1997 through July 1, 1997, to allow WP&L to recover a
   portion of the higher purchased power costs associated with the Kewaunee
   outage.  Refer to the "Liquidity and  Capital Resources - Capital
   Requirements" section below for further discussion of the Kewaunee plant
   outage.  The Kewaunee outage and increased sales to other utilities
   resulted in a 55% increase in the cost of purchased power. 

   For a discussion of electric capacity and reliability refer to "Other
   Matters - Power Supply" section below.

   

   Gas revenues decreased $9.7 million, or 6%, in 1997 as compared with 1996. 
   The decline in revenues and margin reflected an average retail rate
   decrease of 2.2%, effective April 29, 1997, and lower sales.  Therm sales
   declined by 8% due to warmer weather in the winter months of 1997.  This
   decrease was directly reflected in the decline in revenues and
   corresponding $4.2 million, or 7%, decrease in margin.  WP&L realized
   favorable contributions to gas margin of $0.6 million and $1.1 million for
   1997 and 1996, respectively, through its gas incentive program.  Refer to
   the "Liquidity and Capital Resources - Rates and Regulatory Matters"
   section below for further discussion of this adjustment mechanism.

   Fees, Rents, Non-Utility Energy Sales and Other Revenues 

   Fees, rents, non-utility energy sales and other revenues primarily reflect
   sales and revenues of WPLH's nonregulated subsidiaries, consolidated under
   HDC.  Revenues of the principal businesses of HDC were as follows:

                                      
                                   1997        1996
   Environmental and
    engineering services            $78.1     $84.8 
   Energy marketing                  30.8      73.8 
   Other                             15.6      14.9 
                                  -------   ------- 
                                   $124.5    $173.5 
                                  =======   ======= 

   Contributing to the decrease in these revenues for 1997 was the formation
   of a joint venture, effective January 1, 1997, between the gas marketing
   business of the energy marketing subsidiary and Industrial Energy
   Applications, Inc. (IEA), the energy marketing subsidiary of IES.  HDC
   owns 50% of this joint venture and for the year ended December 31, 1997,
   accounted for the investment under the equity method.  Therefore, HDC's
   share of revenues and expenses related to this joint venture have been
   included with "Interest Expense and Other."  Revenues for 1996 included
   $26.4 million related to gas marketing sales now associated with the joint
   venture.  In addition, the softening market for the environmental and
   engineering services business and the transfer of the power marketing
   business to a joint venture formed with Cargill Incorporated contributed
   to the decline in revenues for 1997.  See Note 14 of "Notes to
   Consolidated Financial Statements" for a further discussion of this joint
   venture.

   In addition to the revenues of the nonregulated businesses, other revenues
   also include the water operations of WP&L.  These revenues were $4.7
   million in 1997 and $4.2 million in 1996.

   Other Operation and Cost of Non-Utility Energy

   Other operation and cost of non-utility energy expense includes expenses
   related to WP&L, WPLH and the nonregulated businesses of HDC.  The
   distribution of other operations expense was as follows:


                                         1997          1996
   WP&L                                  $131.4        $140.3 
   Nonregulated businesses
     and parent company operations        123.4         177.3 
                                         ------        ------ 
                                         $254.8        $317.6 
                                         ======        ====== 

   Contributing to the decrease in other operation and cost of non-utility
   energy was the recording of HDC's share of the expenses associated with
   the gas marketing joint venture under "Interest Expense and Other," as
   discussed above. Operating expenses at the nonregulated businesses for the
   year ended December 31, 1996, included $30.8 million related to gas
   marketing sales now associated with the joint venture.  In 1997, these
   expenses were included with "Interest Expense and Other", as previously
   discussed under "Fees, Rents, Non-Utility Energy Sales and Other
   Revenues."  In addition, the softening market for the environmental and
   engineering services business and the reduced activity in the electric
   power area of the energy marketing subsidiary also contributed to the
   decline in other operations expense for 1997.

   Conservation expense at WP&L was reduced significantly under the retail
   rate order, effective April 29, 1997.  This reduction decreased WP&L's
   operating expenses by $8.8 million in 1997 compared with the same period
   in 1996. Partially offsetting this decrease was an additional $3.0 million
   of operating expense in the fourth quarter of 1997, associated with an
   early retirement program for eligible bargaining unit employees.   

   Maintenance Expense 

   Maintenance expense increased as a result of higher plant maintenance
   expenses at Kewaunee and several of WP&L's coal-fired plants, as discussed
   above under "WPLH Electric Operations."

   Depreciation and Amortization

   Depreciation expense increased due to higher depreciation rates at WP&L
   approved by the PSCW, effective January 1, 1997, and property additions. 
   The increases approved by the PSCW included higher depreciation expense
   for Kewaunee, based on the use of an accelerated plant end-of-life,
   increased contributions to the nuclear decommissioning trust fund and
   other items. (See "Liquidity and Capital Resources - Capital Requirements"
   for additional information).  In 1997, HDC recognized an after-tax loss of
   $1.1 million as a result of a write-off of nonproductive assets in its
   environmental and engineering services business.  
    
   Interest Expense and Other
    
   The increase in interest expense and other is primarily the result of non-
   recurring gains which contributed 5 cents per share in 1997 and 19 cents
   per share in 1996.  

   Income Taxes

   The decrease in income taxes between periods reflects lower taxable
   income, an adjustment of prior period taxes and increased affordable
   housing and historical tax credits.


              WPLH RESULTS OF OPERATIONS - 1996 COMPARED WITH 1995

   Overview

   WPLH reported consolidated net income from continuing operations of $73.2
   million or $2.38 per share  for 1996, as compared to $71.6 million or
   $2.33 per share for 1995.  Earnings per share for 1996 and 1995 were $2.34
   and $1.90, respectively, reflecting the impact of the discontinued
   operations. 

   The increase in earnings in 1996 primarily reflects the operations of
   WPLH's utility subsidiary, WP&L.  Continued customer growth in the service
   territory and increased power marketing activity contributed to a $9
   million increase in electric margin in 1996 as compared with 1995.  The
   1996 gas margin also increased due primarily to higher weather-driven
   sales.   (See "WPLH Electric Operations" and "WPLH Gas Operations" below). 
   In addition, a $3.4 million after-tax gain on the sale of a combustion
   turbine was recognized during 1996.   These events were partially offset
   by higher plant maintenance and depreciation expenses in 1996. 

   HDC, parent company of WPLH's nonregulated operations, reported a loss
   from continuing operations of $3.5 million for 1996 compared with a loss
   from continuing operations of $1.5 million for 1995.  HDC's 1996 results
   were adversely impacted by contract losses early in 1996 associated with
   the start-up of the energy marketing business as well as a softening
   market for the environmental and engineering services business.  
   Partially offsetting these losses was an after-tax  gain of $2.5 million
   in 1996, related to the sale of HDC's investment in assisted living
   properties.

   WPLH also recognized a 1996 after-tax loss of $1.3 million resulting from
   additional fees and expenses related to the discontinued operations which
   is discussed in Note 12 of  "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements."

   

   Electric margin increased $9.0 million, or 2%, during 1996 compared with
   1995 primarily due to higher sales to commercial and industrial customers
   as well as other utilities combined with reduced costs per kWh for
   electric production fuels and purchased power.  Although fuel and
   purchased power costs declined on a per kWh basis, purchased power expense
   increased by 80%.  This increase was due to WP&L's higher level of sales
   to other utilities as well as a $5.0 million increase in purchased power
   related to the purchase of replacement power during the extended 1996
   refueling outage at Kewaunee.  Partially offsetting increased purchased
   power costs were slightly lower delivered coal and nuclear fuel costs per
   kWh.

   

   Gas margins increased $5.6 million, or 10%, during 1996 compared with 1995
   primarily as a result of higher sales.  Therm sales increased 10% due to a
   combination of colder weather during the first five months of 1996 as
   compared to 1995, and customer growth of 3%.  The 19% increase in gas
   revenues reflects not only the higher therm sales but also the pass
   through of higher natural gas costs to WP&L's customers.  WP&L realized
   favorable contributions to gas margins of $1.1 million and $0.8 million
   for 1996 and 1995, respectively, due to favorable gas procurement
   activities.  Refer to the "Liquidity and Capital Resources - Rates and
   Regulatory Matters" section below for further discussion of this
   adjustment mechanism.

   Fees, Rents, Non-Utility Energy Sales and Other Revenues 

   Fees, rents, non-utility energy sales and other revenues primarily reflect
   sales and revenues of WPLH's nonregulated  subsidiaries, consolidated
   under HDC, as adjusted for discontinued operations.   Revenues of the
   principal businesses of HDC were as follows:

                                           1996           1995
   Environmental and engineering           $84.8         $88.6 
   Energy marketing                         73.8          12.6 
   Other                                    14.9          16.4 
                                          ------        ------ 
                                          $173.5        $117.6 
                                          ======        ====== 

   Energy marketing revenues were higher due to an increase in the volume of
   electric power and natural gas sales by the energy marketing subsidiary. 
   The subsidiary meets these sales commitments through spot market purchases
   and short-term purchase contracts.  (See "Other Operation and Cost of Non-
   Utility Energy").  Revenues at the environmental and engineering services
   business were lower in 1996 due to a softening market for environmental
   services. 

   In addition to the revenues of the nonregulated businesses, other revenues
   also include the water operations of WP&L.  These revenues were $4.2
   million in both 1996 and 1995.   

   Other Operation and Cost of Non-Utility Energy

   Other operation and cost of non-utility energy expense includes expenses
   related to WP&L, the parent company and the nonregulated  businesses of
   HDC.   The distribution of other operations expense was as follows:

                                          1996        1995
   WP&L                                   $140.3       $139.3
   Nonregulated businesses
     and parent company operations         177.3       113.4 
                                          ------      ------ 
                                          $317.6      $252.7 
                                          ======      ====== 

   The increase in operations expense associated with the nonregulated
   businesses is primarily a result of increased volume at the energy
   marketing subsidiary.   Several commitments made in early 1996 resulted in
   substantial losses.  On a comparative basis, the non-utility energy
   marketing business incurred net losses of 17 cents per share in 1996 and 3
   cents per share in 1995. 

   The environmental and engineering services business also incurred higher
   contract related costs which were partially offset by labor and benefit
   savings.  The environmental and engineering services business lost 4 cents
   per share in 1996 as compared to a 7 cent per share contribution in 1995.

   Operating expenses in the affordable housing business were significantly
   reduced in 1996 as operations support was outsourced and development
   activity was curtailed.  After adjusting for the tax benefits and credits
   associated with this business, the affordable housing business contributed
   approximately 8 cents per share in 1996 including 2 cents per share
   related to the sale of two properties.  In 1995, the affordable housing
   business contributed 4 cents per share. 

   Maintenance

   Maintenance expense increased due to higher plant maintenance and the
   extended 1996 refueling outage at Kewaunee (See "Liquidity and Capital
   Resources - Capital Requirements" below). 

   Depreciation and Amortization 

   Depreciation and amortization expense increased $4.4 million as a result
   of property additions and greater amortization of contributions in aid of
   construction (a reduction of expense) in 1995.

   Interest Expense and Other 

   The $9.1 million increase in other income is the result of two significant
   gains recognized in 1996.  The sale of a combustion turbine by WP&L
   resulted in other income of $5.7 million.   In addition, HDC recognized a
   gain of $4.2 million on the sale of its investment in assisted living
   properties.  Interest expense was lower in 1996 as compared to 1995 as a
   result of less short-term debt outstanding and a slight decrease in
   interest rates. 

   Income Taxes

   Income taxes increased for 1996 as a result of higher taxable income.  
   The effective tax rate on continuing operations was 35.4% and 32.5% for
   1996 and 1995, respectively.  The lower rate in 1995 was the result of
   prior years' tax contingencies resolved favorably in 1995 and increased
   non-deductible Merger expenses in 1996.

             PRO FORMA EARNINGS PER SHARE INFORMATION AND HISTORICAL
                                IES AND IPC DATA

   Set forth below is information regarding pro forma earnings per share
   (basic and diluted) of the Merged Company and certain historical financial
   information regarding IES and IPC for the years ended December 31, 1997,
   1996 and 1995.

   1997 versus 1996

   The earnings per average common share for the Merged Company on a pro
   forma basis and for each of WPLH, IES and IPC for the years ended December
   31, 1997 and 1996 were as follows: 

                                           1997       1996
    Merged Company pro forma combined *    $2.02      $2.10
    WPLH                                    1.99       2.34
    IES                                     2.18       2.04
    IPC                                     2.74       2.69

   The growth in IES's earnings per share in 1997 as compared with 1996 was
   primarily the result of: a 3.8% increase in electric sales (excluding off-
   system sales), a lower effective income tax rate, and increased operating
   income from IES's non-utility operations.  The increased earnings were
   partially offset by higher interest expense, higher utility operating
   expenses, and start-up expenses in international and domestic growth
   areas.  Expenses incurred defending an unsuccessful hostile takeover bid
   for IES reduced 1996 earnings per share by 15 cents.

   The growth in IPC's earnings per share in 1997 as compared with 1996 was
   primarily the result of: electric and gas rate increases, a favorable
   court ruling regarding the recovery of manufactured gas plant costs (see
   "Liquidity and Capital Resources - Rates and Regulatory Matters"), and the
   continued control of operation and maintenance costs.  Partially
   offsetting the increase in earnings were slightly depressed sales due to
   milder weather and the loss of eight municipal customers to other energy
   suppliers.

   1996 versus 1995

   The earnings per average common share for the Merged Company on a pro
   forma basis and for each of WPLH, IES and IPC for the years ended December
   31, 1996 and 1995 were as follows:

                                          1996        1995
    Merged Company pro forma combined *   $2.10       $1.98
    WPLH                                   2.34        1.90
    IES                                    2.04        2.20
    IPC                                    2.69        2.63

   The decrease in IES's earnings was primarily due to costs incurred in 1996
   defending an unsuccessful takeover bid for IES which decreased earnings
   per share by 15 cents.  Increased sales, electric and gas rate increases,
   and continuing efforts to control costs contributed to the increased
   earnings for IPC.

   * The pro forma earnings per share reflect the impact of the discontinued
   operations recorded by WPLH in 1996 and 1995.  For additional information
   regarding the derivation of the pro forma earnings per share data, see
   "Interstate Energy Corporation Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Financial
   Statements" included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.


                         LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

   Historical WPLH Analysis

   Cash flows from operating activities at WPLH decreased to $151 million in
   1997 compared with $191 million in 1996 primarily due to a reduction in
   net income and working capital.  Cash flows used for financing were $2.2
   million in 1997 as compared to $72.4 million in 1996 resulting from a net
   increase in the amount of debt outstanding.  Cash flows used for financing
   activities increased to $72.4 million in 1996 from $31.0 million in 1995
   due to the net change in short-term debt. Cash flows used for investing
   activities were significantly lower in 1996 as compared with 1997 and 1995
   due to the proceeds received in 1996 from both the sale of other property
   and equipment and the sale of a subsidiary and investments. Times interest
   earned before income taxes for WPLH for 1997, 1996 and 1995 was 3.19, 3.82
   and 3.55, respectively.

   Prospective Considerations

   Assuming the Merger is consummated, the capital requirements of the Merged
   Company will be primarily attributable to its utility subsidiaries'
   construction and acquisition programs, its debt maturities and business
   opportunities of New Diversified.  It is anticipated that future capital
   requirements of the Merged Company will be met by cash generated from
   operations and external financing.  The level of cash generated from
   operations is partially dependent upon economic conditions, legislative
   activities, environmental matters and timely regulatory recovery of
   utility costs.  The Merged Company's liquidity and capital resources will
   be affected by costs associated with environmental and regulatory issues. 
   Emerging competition in the utility industry could also impact the Merged
   Company's liquidity and capital resources, as discussed  previously in the
   "Utility Industry Outlook" section.  

   The Merged Company will have interests in the international arena.  At
   December 31, 1997, IES had approximately $57 million of investments in
   foreign entities.  At December 31, 1997, WPLH and IPC did not have
   material foreign investments.  It is expected that the Merged Company
   will continue to explore additional international investment
   opportunities.  Such investments may carry a higher level of risk than the
   Merged Company's traditional domestic utility investments or New
   Diversified's domestic investments. Such risks could include foreign
   government actions, foreign economic and currency risks and others.  

   The Merged Company is expected to pursue various potential business
   development opportunities, including international as well as domestic
   investments, and is devoting resources to such efforts.  It is anticipated
   that the Merged Company will strive to select investments where the
   international and other risks are both understood and manageable.

   At December 31, 1997, IES and IPC had investments in the stock of
   McLeodUSA Inc. (McLeod), a telecommunications company, valued at $327
   million and $1.4 million (as compared to a cost basis of $29 million and
   $0.1 million), respectively.  Pursuant to the applicable accounting rules,
   the carrying value of the investments are adjusted to the estimated fair
   value each quarter based on the closing price at the end of the quarter. 
   The adjustments do not impact earnings as the unrealized gains or losses,
   net of taxes, are recorded directly to the common equity section of the
   balance sheet.  In addition, any such gains or losses are reflected in
   current earnings only at the time they are realized through a sale.  IES
   and IPC have entered into agreements with McLeod which restricts the sale
   or disposal of its shares without the consent of the McLeod Board of
   Directors until September and June 1998, respectively.  

   The merger partners had certain financial guarantees and commitments
   outstanding at December 31, 1997 which are not reflected in the pro forma
   Consolidated Financial Statements.  They generally consist of third-party
   borrowing arrangements and lending commitments as well as guarantees of
   financial performance of syndicated affordable housing properties. 
   Management believes the possibility of the Merged Company having to make
   any material cash payments under these agreements is remote.

   Financing and Capital Structure 

   Access to the long-term and short-term capital and credit markets, and
   costs of external financing, are dependent on  creditworthiness.   The
   debt ratings of the Merged Company and certain subsidiaries are as
   follows:

                                                                 Standard
                                                    Moody's      & Poor's
                                                    (As of       (As of 
                                                    3/26/98)     3/2/98)

    IESU             - Secured long-term debt           A2          A+
                     - Corporate credit rating (a)     N/A          A+
                     - Unsecured long-term debt         A3          A

    WP&L             - Secured long-term debt          Aa2          AA
                     - Corporate credit rating (a)     N/A         AA-
                     - Unsecured long-term debt        Aa3          A+

    IPC              - Secured long-term debt           A1          A+
                     - Corporate credit rating         N/A          A+
                     - Unsecured long-term debt         A2          A

    New Diversified  - Commercial paper                 P2          A1

    Merged Company   - Corporate credit rating (a)     N/A          A+
                     - Commercial paper (b)             P1          A1

   (a)  The "Corporate credit rating" is the overall rating of the parent
        company and is used by Standard & Poor's but not by Moody's.

   (b)  Upon consummation of the Merger, IESU, WP&L and IPC expect to
        participate in a utility money pool which will be funded, as needed,
        by the Merged Company through the issuance of commercial paper.  This
        utility money pool is expected to replace the commercial paper
        programs previously in place at IESU, WP&L and IPC.

        The following material long-term debt financing activities involving
   the merger partners and their subsidiaries took place in 1997 -

   -  On April 28, 1997, WP&L entered into an interest rate forward contract
      to hedge interest rate risk related to the anticipated issuance of $105
      million of long-term debt securities.  The securities were issued on
      June 30, 1997 (7.00% interest rate, maturing in 2007) and the forward
      contract was settled which resulted in a cash payment of $3.8 million
      by WP&L.  This payment is being recognized as an adjustment to interest
      expense over the life of the new debt securities to approximate the
      interest rate implicit in the forward contract.

   -  WP&L utilized the net proceeds from the issuance of the $105 million of
      debt securities described above to repay maturing short-term debt,
      finance utility construction expenditures and to repay at maturity $55
      million of WP&L's First Mortgage Bonds, Series Z, 6.125%.

   -  In October 1997, Diversified entered into a 3-Year Credit Agreement
      with various banking institutions which replaced its variable rate
      credit facility.  The agreement extends through October 2000, with one-
      year extensions available upon agreement by the parties.  Unused
      borrowing availability under this agreement is also used to support
      Diversified's commercial paper program.  A combined maximum of $450
      million of borrowings under this agreement and the commercial paper
      program may be outstanding at any one time.  Interest rates and
      maturities are set at the time of borrowing.  The rates are based upon
      quoted market prices and the maturities are less than one year.  At
      December 31, 1997, Diversified had $182 million of borrowings
      outstanding under this facility with interest rates ranging from 6.05%-
      7.30%.  New Diversified intends to continue borrowing under the renewal
      options of this facility and no conditions exist at December 31, 1997
      that would prevent such borrowings.  Accordingly, this debt is
      classified as long-term.  In addition, Diversified also entered into a
      $150 million 364-Day Credit Agreement as discussed later. 
    
   -  In August 1997, IESU issued $135 million of 6.625% Senior Debentures,
      due 2009.  The proceeds from these debentures were used to reduce
      IESU's short-term borrowings.  

   -  IESU repaid at maturity $8 million of 6.125% First Mortgage Bonds
      during the second quarter of 1997.

   -  Also in the second quarter of 1997, IESU issued $55 million of
      Collateral Trust Bonds, 6.875%, due 2007.  Holders thereof may elect to
      have their Collateral Trust Bonds redeemed, in whole but not in part,
      on May 1, 2002, at 100% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued
      interest.  The proceeds from the Collateral Trust Bonds were used to
      refinance $15 million of Series L, 7.875% First Mortgage Bonds, $30
      million of Series M, 7.625% First Mortgage Bonds and $10 million of
      7.375% First Mortgage Bonds.

   -  IPC repaid at maturity $17 million of 6.125% First Mortgage Bonds in
      May 1997.  

   Other than periodic sinking fund requirements, which will not require
   additional cash expenditures, the following long-term debt (in millions)
   will mature prior to December 31, 2002:

        IESU                              $185.1
        IPC                                  8.1
        WP&L                                10.8
        New Diversified                    207.6
                                          ------
        Merged Company                    $411.6
                                          ======

   Depending upon market conditions, it is currently anticipated that a
   majority of the maturing debt will be refinanced with the issuance of
   long-term securities.

   IESU, IPC and WP&L currently have no authority from their applicable
   federal/state regulatory commissions or the Securities and Exchange
   Commission (SEC) to issue additional long-term debt.  The companies are
   evaluating their future financing needs and will make the necessary
   regulatory filings as needed.

   Under the most restrictive terms of their respective indentures, WP&L,
   IESU and IPC could have issued at least $276 million, $234 million and
   $200 million of long-term debt at December 31, 1997, respectively.

   The various charter provisions of the entities identified below authorize
   and limit the aggregate amount of additional shares of Cumulative
   Preferred Stock and Cumulative Preference Stock that may be issued.  At
   December 31, 1997, the companies could have issued the following
   additional shares of Cumulative Preferred or Preference Stock:

                              IESU       IPC        WP&L         IES
    Cumulative Preferred           -     1,238,619  2,700,775    5,000,000
    Cumulative Preference     700,000    2,000,000          -           -

   The capitalization ratios of WPLH, IES and IPC at year-end were as
   follows:

                    Pro Forma      
                     Combined       WPLH           IES            IPC
                       1997     1997   1996    1997   1996    1997   1996
    Common equity        51%     54%    59%    49%     47%    52%    50%
    Preferred stock       3       5      6      1       1      8      8
    Long-term debt       46      41     35     50      52     40     42
                       -----   ----   ----    ----   ----    ----   ----
                        100%   100%    100%   100%    100%   100%   100%

   For interim financing, WP&L, IESU and IPC are authorized by the applicable
   federal or state regulatory agency to issue short-term debt as follows (in
   millions) at December 31, 1997:

                                      WP&L    IESU     IPC
    Regulatory authorization          $138    $200     $75
    Short-term debt outstanding        $81       -     $34

   WPLH also had $42 million of short-term debt outstanding at December 31,
   1997.  In addition to providing for ongoing working capital needs, this
   availability of short-term financing provides the companies flexibility in
   the issuance of long-term securities.  The level of short-term borrowing
   fluctuates based on seasonal corporate needs, the timing of long-term
   financing, and capital market conditions.  To maintain flexibility in its
   capital structure and to take advantage of favorable short-term rates,
   WP&L and IESU also use proceeds from the sale of accounts receivable and
   unbilled revenues to finance a portion of their long-term cash needs.  The
   merger partners anticipate that short-term debt will continue to be
   available at reasonable costs due to current ratings by independent
   utility analysts and rating services. 

   WPLH, IES and IPC had the following bank lines of credit (in millions) at
   December 31, 1997 available to support its borrowings:

                               WPLH        IES        IPC
    Bank lines of credit       $170        $45        $53
    Amount utilized               -        $11        $34

   Commitment fees are paid to maintain these lines and there are no
   conditions which restrict the unused lines of credit.  From time to time,
   the Merged Company, assuming the Merger is consummated, may borrow from
   banks and other financial institutions in lieu of commercial paper, and
   has agreements with several financial institutions for such borrowings. 
   There are no commitment fees associated with these agreements and there
   were no borrowings outstanding under these agreements at December 31,
   1997.

   In October 1997, Diversified entered into a 364-Day Credit Agreement with
   various banking institutions. The agreement extends through October 20,
   1998, with 364 day extensions available upon agreement by the parties. The
   unborrowed portion of this agreement is also used to support Diversified's
   commercial paper program.  A  combined maximum of $150 million of
   borrowings under this agreement and the commercial paper program may be
   outstanding at any one time.  Interest rates and maturities are set at the
   time of borrowing.  The rates are based upon quoted market prices and the
   maturities are less than one year.  There were no borrowings under this
   facility at December 31, 1997.

   Given the above financing flexibility, management believes it has the
   necessary financing capabilities in place to adequately finance its
   capital requirements for the foreseeable future.

   Capital Requirements

   General

   Capital expenditure and investment and financing plans are subject to
   continual review and change.  The capital expenditure and investment
   programs may be revised significantly as a result of many considerations,
   including changes in economic conditions, variations in actual sales and
   load growth compared to forecasts, requirements of environmental, nuclear
   and other regulatory authorities, acquisition and business combination
   opportunities, the availability of alternate energy and purchased power
   sources, the ability to obtain adequate and timely rate relief,
   escalations in construction costs and conservation and energy efficiency
   programs.

   Assuming the Merger is consummated, the Merged Company's anticipated
   construction and acquisition expenditures for 1998 are estimated to be
   approximately $630 million, consisting of approximately $277 million in
   its utility operations, $190 million for energy-related international
   investments and $163 million for new business development initiatives at
   New Diversified.  The level of 1998 domestic and international investments
   could vary significantly from the estimates noted here dependent on actual
   investment opportunities as well as the timing of the opportunities. 
   Assuming the Merger is consummated, it is expected that the Merged Company
   will spend approximately $1.2 billion on utility construction and
   acquisition expenditures during 1999-2002.  The strategy related to the
   construction and acquisition program for New Diversified during 1999-2002
   is currently being finalized.  Assuming the Merger is consummated, it is
   expected that New Diversified will invest in energy products and services
   in domestic and international markets, industrial services initiatives and
   other strategic initiatives.  

   One of the post-merger objectives is to finance utility construction
   expenditures through internally generated funds supplemented, when
   required, by outside financing.  The Merged Company is expected to fund
   the large majority of its utility construction expenditures during 1998-
   2002 through internally generated funds, supplemented by external
   financings as needed.  Funding of a majority of the New Diversified
   construction and acquisition expenditures is expected to be completed with
   external financings.

   Nuclear Facilities

   Assuming the Merger is consummated, the Merged Company will own interests
   in two nuclear facilities, Kewaunee and the Duane Arnold Energy Center
   (DAEC).  Set forth below is a discussion of certain matters impacting
   these facilities.  

   Kewaunee, a 535-megawatt (nameplate capacity) pressurized water reactor
   plant, is operated by Wisconsin Public Service Corporation (WPSC) and is
   jointly owned by WPSC (41.2%), WP&L (41.0%), and Madison Gas & Electric
   Company (MG&E) (17.8%).  The Kewaunee operating license expires in 2013.

   Kewaunee returned to service on June 12, 1997 after having been out of
   service since September 21, 1996 for refueling, routine maintenance, and
   repair of the two steam generators.  The original Kewaunee steam generator
   tubes are susceptible to corrosion.  Tubes are repaired by inserting
   sleeves (tubes within tubes) in the original steam generator tubes.  The
   most recent repair was undertaken when previously repaired tubes failed. 
   The repair consisted of removing old sleeves and inserting new slightly
   longer sleeves which cover the areas of concern in the original steam
   generator tubes.  The new sleeves will be inspected during the next
   refueling and maintenance outage which is scheduled for the Fall of 1998. 
   As of this filing, Kewaunee had remained in continuous operation since the
   plant was returned to service with the exception of a one-week outage for
   replacement of a reactor coolant pump seal.  Kewaunee is operating at 97%
   of rated capacity because certain steam generator tubes have been removed
   from service rather than repaired.

   In accordance with the PSCW authorization, WP&L had deferred $3.1 million
   at December 31, 1997, associated with Kewaunee steam generator repair
   costs.  In March 1998, the PSCW approved recovery of these costs through a
   customer surcharge effective April 1, 1998 through May 31, 1998.

   The total cost of replacing the two steam generators would be
   approximately $89.0 million of which WP&L's share would be $36.5 million. 
   Because of work already completed, the elapsed time from placing a firm
   order for steam generators to receiving delivery has been shortened to
   approximately 22 months.

   The owners of Kewaunee have differing views on the desirability of
   proceeding with the steam generator replacement project.  Although the new
   resleeving repair technology may allow the plant to remain in service for
   an extended period of time, WPSC favors replacement at the earliest
   possible date because of reliability and cost concerns related to steam
   generator repairs.  WP&L and MG&E have been unwilling to support
   replacement.  In March 1996, WPSC filed an application with the PSCW for
   permission to replace the Kewaunee steam generators.  This application was
   approved in April 1998.  The issues related to the continued operation and
   future ownership still need to be resolved before steam generator
   replacement can proceed.  The joint owners continue to analyze and discuss
   other options related to the future of Kewaunee including various
   ownership transfer alternatives.  If it should become necessary to retire
   Kewaunee permanently, WP&L would replace the Kewaunee generation through a
   combination of purchased power, increased generation at existing WP&L
   generating units and new generating unit additions, if necessary.

   The PSCW has directed the owners of Kewaunee to develop depreciation and
   decommissioning cost levels based on an expected plant end-of-life of 2002
   versus a license end-of-life of 2013.  This was prompted by the
   uncertainty regarding the expected useful life of the plant without steam
   generator replacement.  At December 31, 1997, the net carrying amount of
   WP&L's investment in Kewaunee was approximately $45.7 million.  The
   current cost of WP&L's share of the estimated costs to decommission
   Kewaunee is $181.3 million and exceeds the trust assets at December 31,
   1997 by $68.9 million. The costs of decommissioning are assumed to
   escalate at an annual rate of 5.83%.  WP&L's retail customers in the
   Wisconsin jurisdiction are responsible for approximately 80% of WP&L's
   share of Kewaunee costs.

   As a result of accelerating the recovery of WP&L's share of Kewaunee
   related costs, depreciation expense and decommissioning funding will
   increase approximately $3.0 million (from $4.8 million to $7.8 million)
   and $5.4 million (from $10.7 million to $16.1 million), respectively, on
   an annualized basis.  During 1997, $6.5 million of depreciation expense
   related to unrecovered plant investment was recognized compared to $4.8
   million which was recognized in 1996.  During 1997, decommissioning
   expense associated with funding increased to $14.3 million from $10.7
   million in 1996.  The $14.3 million represents a combination of the annual
   funding levels in accordance with UR-109 through April 29, 1997 and UR-110
   post-April 29, 1997. Customer rates, which became effective in Wisconsin
   on April 29, 1997, are designed to recover the accelerated Kewaunee
   depreciation and decommissioning costs.

   DAEC, a 520-megawatt boiling water reactor plant, is operated by IESU and
   IESU has a 70% ownership interest in the plant.  The DAEC operating
   license expires in 2014.  Pursuant to the most recent electric rate case
   order, the IUB allows IESU to recover $6.0 million annually for the cost
   to decommission the DAEC.  The current recovery figures are based on an
   assumed  cost to decommission the DAEC of $252.8 million, which is IESU's
   70% portion in 1993 dollars, based on the Nuclear Regulatory Commission
   (NRC) minimum formula (which exceeds the amount in the current
   site-specific study completed in 1994).  At December 31, 1997, IESU had
   $77.9 million invested in external decommissioning trust funds and also
   had an internal decommissioning reserve of $21.7 million recorded as
   accumulated depreciation. 

   Refer to the "Other Matters - Environmental" section for a discussion of
   various issues impacting the Merged Company's future capital requirements.

   Rates and Regulatory Matters

   In November 1997, as part of its merger approval, FERC accepted a proposal
   by IESU, WP&L, and IPC, which provides for a four-year freeze on wholesale
   electric prices beginning with the effective date of the Merger.  

   WP&L  

   In connection with its approval of the Merger, the PSCW accepted a WP&L
   proposal to freeze rates for four years following the date of the Merger. 
   A re-opening of an investigation into WP&L's rates during the rate freeze
   period, for both cost increases and decreases, may occur only for single
   events that are not Merger-related and have a revenue requirement impact
   of $4.5 million or more. 

   In rate order UR-110, the PSCW approved new rates effective April 29, 1997
   through 1998. On average, WP&L's retail electric rates declined by 2.4%
   and retail gas rates declined by 2.2%.  Other items included in the rate
   order were: authorization of a surcharge to collect replacement power
   costs while Kewaunee remained out of service for the period effective
   April 29, 1997 through July 1, 1997; authorization of an increase in the
   return on equity to 11.7% from 11.5%; reinstatement of the electric fuel
   adjustment clause; continuation of a modified gas performance based
   ratemaking incentive mechanism; and a modified SO2 incentive.  In
   addition, the PSCW ordered that it must approve the payment of dividends
   by WP&L to its parent company that are in excess of the level forecasted
   in the rate order ($58.3 million), if such dividends would reduce WP&L's
   average common equity ratio below 52.00% of total capitalization.  Based
   on a 13-month average for 1997, WP&L's common equity ratio was 52.56%. 

   The retail electric rates are based in part on forecasted fuel and
   purchase power costs.  Under PSCW rules, Wisconsin utilities can seek
   emergency rate increases if these costs are more than three percent higher
   than the estimated costs used to establish rates.  In WP&L's case, actual
   fuel costs since May 1997 have been higher than estimated and are expected
   to remain well above the estimated levels in 1998. As a result, WP&L has
   asked the PSCW to approve a rate increase.  It is expected that the PSCW
   will issue a decision in the second quarter of 1998.  Any increase
   approved by the PSCW will be implemented on a prospective basis.  

   The gas performance incentive was modified to eliminate the maximum gain
   or loss to be recognized by WP&L.  Previously, this incentive was limited
   to $1.1 million to WP&L.  The incentive includes a sharing mechanism,
   whereby 40% of all gains and losses relative to current commodity prices
   as well as other benchmarks are recognized by WP&L rather than refunded to
   or recovered from customers. 

   IESU  

   In September 1997, IESU agreed with the IUB to provide Iowa customers a
   four-year retail electric and gas price freeze commencing on the effective
   date of the Merger.  The agreement excluded price changes due to
   government-mandated programs, such as energy efficiency cost recovery or
   unforeseen dramatic changes in operations.  In addition, the price freeze
   does not preclude a review by either the IUB or Office of Consumer
   Advocate (OCA) into whether IESU is exceeding a reasonable return on
   common equity.

   Under provisions of the IUB rules, IESU is currently recovering the costs
   it has incurred for its energy efficiency programs.   There have been
   several cost recovery filings made and approved by the IUB over the course
   of the last few years.  Generally, the costs incurred through July 1997
   are being recovered over various four-year periods. The IUB commenced a
   rulemaking in January 1997 to implement statutory changes allowing
   concurrent recovery and a final order in this proceeding was issued in
   April 1997.  The new rules allowed IESU to begin concurrent recovery of
   its prospective expenditures on August 1, 1997.  The implementation of
   these changes will gradually eliminate the regulatory asset that was
   created under the prior rate making mechanism as these costs are
   recovered.  

   IESU has the following amounts of energy efficiency costs included in
   regulatory assets on its Consolidated Balance Sheets (in thousands):

                                 Four-Year
                                 Recovery    December 31,    December 31,
                                 Beginning   1997            1996
    Costs incurred through
     1993                        6/95        $7,779           $12,834
    Costs incurred in
     1994 -1995                  8/97        30,924            33,161
    Costs incurred from
     1/96 - 7/97                 8/97        19,847            15,087
    Under collection of
     concurrent recovery         N/A             850              - 
                                             -------          -------
                                             $59,400          $61,082
                                             =======          ========

   IPC  

   In September 1997, IPC agreed with the IUB to provide Iowa customers a
   four-year retail electric and gas price freeze commencing on the effective
   date of the Merger.  The agreement excluded price changes due to
   government-mandated programs, such as energy efficiency cost recovery, or
   unforeseen dramatic changes in operations.  In addition, the price freeze
   does not preclude a review by either the IUB or OCA into whether IPC is
   exceeding a reasonable return on common equity.  IPC also agreed with the
   MPUC and Illinois Commerce Commission to four-year and three-year rate
   freezes, respectively, commencing on the effective date of the Merger. 

   On September 30, 1997, the IUB approved a settlement between IPC and the
   OCA which provided for an electric rate reduction of approximately $3.2
   million annually.  The reduction applied to all bills rendered on and
   after October 7, 1997.

   In May 1995, IPC filed an application with the MPUC for an increase in gas
   rates in an annual amount of $2.4 million. Increased interim rates in an
   annual amount of $1.5 million were placed in effect in June 1995. On
   February 29, 1996, MPUC issued an order allowing an increase in gas rates
   of $2.1 million. Rates reflecting the increase were implemented in
   September 1996. The Department of Public Service and the Office of
   Attorney General appealed the MPUC's decision. The appeal was denied by
   the Minnesota Court of Appeals on February 18, 1997. On March 21, 1997,
   the Department of Public Service and the Office of Attorney General
   appealed the decision of the Court of Appeals (and the MPUC) to the
   Minnesota Supreme Court. On January 8, 1998, the Minnesota Supreme Court
   upheld the MPUC's initial decision allowing IPC to recover $4.9 million of
   manufactured gas plant clean-up expenses over a 10 year period.

   IPC is also recovering its energy efficiency costs in Iowa in a similar
   manner as IESU and began its concurrent cost recovery in October 1997. 
   IPC has the following amounts of energy efficiency costs to be recovered
   in Iowa included in regulatory assets on its Balance Sheets (in
   thousands):

                             Four-Year
                             Recovery      December 31,     December 31,
                             Beginning     1997             1996
    Costs incurred through
     1992                      10/94           $912           $2,128
    Costs incurred in 1993
     - 1995                    5/97         16,576            19,193
    Costs incurred from
     1/96 - 9/97               10/97         9,796             6,042
                                           -------           -------
                                           $27,284           $27,363
                                           =======           =======


   In addition, IPC had $2.7 million and $2.5 million at December 31, 1997
   and December 31, 1996, respectively, included in regulatory assets for
   energy efficiency recoveries in Minnesota.

   Assuming consummation of the Merger and capture of the Merger-related
   synergies described under the caption "Merger" above and no significant
   legislative or regulatory changes affecting its utility subsidiaries, the
   merger partners do not expect the Merger-related electric and gas price
   freezes to have a material adverse effect on the financial position or
   results of operations of the Merged Company.


                                  OTHER MATTERS

   Year 2000

   Each of the merger partners utilize software, embedded systems and related
   technologies throughout its businesses that will be affected by the date
   change in the Year 2000.  An internal task force has been assembled to
   review and develop the full scope, work plan and cost estimates to ensure
   that the systems of the merger partners continue to meet their internal
   and customer needs.  

   Phase I of the project, which encompassed a review of the necessary
   software modifications that will need to be made to the merger partners'
   financial and customer systems, has been completed.  The merger partners
   currently estimate that the remaining costs to be incurred on this phase
   of the project will be approximately $4 million to $8 million in the
   aggregate.

   The task force has also begun Phase II of the project which is an
   extensive review of the embedded systems for Year 2000 conversion issues. 
   The task force has inventoried critical embedded operating systems and is
   working with the system vendors to ascertain Year 2000 compliance of these
   systems.  The task force is also developing detailed plans for testing and
   remediating critical systems (i.e., systems whose failure could affect
   employee safety or business operations).   

   As part of an awareness effort, the merger partners have also notified
   their utility customers of their Year 2000 project efforts.  Key suppliers
   are also being contacted to confirm their Year 2000 readiness plans. 
   Efforts are also underway to develop contingency plans for critical
   embedded operating systems.  Management is currently unable to estimate
   the costs to be incurred on this phase of the project but believes that
   the costs will be significant.  An estimate of the expenses to be incurred
   on this phase of the project is expected to be available by the third
   quarter of 1998.

   The goal of the merger partners is to have all the material Year 2000
   conversions made sufficiently in advance of December 31, 1999 to allow for
   unanticipated issues.  At this time, management is unable to determine if
   the Year 2000 issue will have a material adverse effect on the financial
   position or results of operations of the merger partners.   

   In April 1998, WP&L filed a request with the PSCW requesting deferral 
   treatment of Year 2000 costs in excess of $4 million.  Currently, 
   management cannot predict the action the PSCW may take regarding this
   request.

   Labor Issues

   The status of the collective bargaining agreements at each of the
   utilities is as follows:

                                 IESU          WP&L           IPC
   Number of collective
    bargaining agreements          6             1              3
   Percentage of workforce
    covered by agreements         53            69             64

   There are two agreements at IESU expiring in 1998 and the number of employees
   covered under these agreements is relatively small. 

   Financial Instruments

   WPLH has historically had only limited involvement with derivative
   financial instruments and has not used them for trading purposes.  They
   have been used to manage well-defined interest rate and commodity price
   risks.  WP&L historically has entered into interest rate swap agreements
   to reduce the impact of changes in interest rates on its floating-rate
   long-term debt, short-term debt and the sales of its accounts receivable. 
   The total notional amount of interest rate swaps outstanding was $40
   million at December 31, 1997.  WPLH has used swaps, futures and options to
   hedge the price risks associated with the purchase and sale of stored gas
   at WP&L and with the purchases and sales of gas and electric power at the
   energy marketing subsidiary.   On April 28, 1997, WP&L entered into an
   interest rate forward contract to hedge interest rate risk related to the
   anticipated issuance of $105 million of long-term debt securities.  See
   Note 8 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for additional
   information.  

   IES historically had a policy that derivative financial instruments were
   to be used only to mitigate business risks and not for speculative
   purposes.  Derivatives were used on a very limited basis.  At December 31,
   1997, IES did not have any material derivatives outstanding.  IPC had no
   derivatives outstanding at December 31, 1997.   The Merged Company is in
   the process of developing its policy for the use of derivative financial
   instruments.

   Accounting Pronouncements

   Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 130 (SFAS 130), Reporting
   Comprehensive Income, was issued by the Financial Accounting Standards
   Board (FASB) in the second quarter of 1997.  SFAS 130 establishes
   standards for reporting of comprehensive income and its components in a
   full set of general purpose financial statements.  SFAS 130 will require
   reporting a total for comprehensive income which includes:  (a) unrealized
   holding gains/losses on securities classified as available-for-sale under
   SFAS 115, (b) foreign currency translation adjustments accounted for under
   SFAS 52, and (c) minimum pension liability adjustments made pursuant to
   SFAS 87.  SFAS 130 is effective for periods beginning after December 15,
   1997.

   Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 131 (SFAS 131),
   Disclosures About Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information, was
   issued by the FASB in the second quarter of 1997.  SFAS 131 requires
   disclosures for each business segment in a manner consistent with how
   management disaggregates and evaluates the company, with the addition of
   quarterly disclosure requirements and a finer partitioning of geographic
   disclosures.  SFAS 131 is effective for periods beginning after December
   15, 1997.

   Accounting for Obligations Associated with the Retirement of Long-Lived
   Assets

   The staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission has questioned certain
   of the current accounting practices of the electric utility industry,
   including IESU and WP&L, regarding the recognition, measurement and
   classification of decommissioning costs for nuclear generating stations in
   financial statements of electric utilities.  In response to these
   questions, the FASB is reviewing the accounting for closure and removal
   costs, including decommissioning of nuclear power plants. If current
   electric utility industry accounting practices for nuclear power plant
   decommissioning are changed, the annual provision for decommissioning
   could increase relative to 1997, and the estimated cost for
   decommissioning could be recorded as a liability (rather than as
   accumulated depreciation), with recognition of an increase in the cost of
   the related nuclear power plant.   Assuming no significant regulatory
   shift, IESU and WP&L do not believe that such changes, if required, would
   have an adverse effect on its financial position or results of operations
   due to its ability to recover decommissioning costs through rates.
    
   Inflation

   The merger partners do not expect the effects of inflation at current
   levels to have a significant effect on their financial position or results
   of operations.

   Environmental

   The pollution abatement programs of IESU, IPC, WP&L, HDC and Diversified
   are subject to continuing review and are revised from time to time due to
   changes in environmental regulations, changes in construction plans and
   escalation of construction costs.  While management cannot precisely
   forecast the effect of future environmental regulations on its operations,
   it has taken steps to anticipate the future while also meeting the
   requirements of current environmental regulations.

   IESU, IPC and WP&L all have current or previous ownership interests in
   properties previously associated with the production of gas at
   manufactured gas plants (MGP) for which they may be liable for
   investigation, remediation and monitoring costs relating to the sites.  A
   summary of information relating to the sites is as follows:

                                                   IESU      IPC     WP&L
    Number of known sites for which liability
     may exist                                       34        9       14
    Liability recorded at December 31, 1997
     (millions)                                   $33.2     $5.8     $9.2
    Regulatory asset recorded at December 31,
     1997 (millions)                              $33.2     $6.2    $16.3

   The companies are working pursuant to the requirements of various federal
   and state agencies to investigate, mitigate, prevent and remediate, where
   necessary, the environmental impacts to property, including natural
   resources, at and around the sites in order to protect public health and
   the environment.  The companies each believe that they have completed the
   remediation at various sites, although they are still in the process of
   obtaining final approval from the applicable environmental agencies for
   some of these sites.

   Each company has recorded environmental liabilities related to the MGP
   sites; such amounts are based on the best current estimate of the amount
   to be incurred for investigation, remediation and monitoring costs for
   those sites where the investigation process has been or is substantially
   completed, and the minimum of the estimated cost range for those sites
   where the investigation is in its earlier stages.   Management currently
   estimates the range of costs to be incurred for the investigation,
   remediation and monitoring of the sites to be approximately $36 million to
   $83 million. It is possible that future cost estimates will be greater
   than the current estimates as the investigation process proceeds and as
   additional facts become known.   

   WP&L completed a comprehensive review of its MGP liability in the third
   quarter of 1997.  This review resulted in a $65 million reduction in the
   recorded MGP liability, largely due to the approval by the Wisconsin
   Department of Natural Resources (WDNR) of less costly containment and
   control strategies as an alternative to excavation processes at various
   sites.  See Note 11 c. of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements"
   for additional information.

   Under the current rate making treatment approved by the PSCW, the MGP
   expenditures, net of any insurance proceeds, are deferred and collected
   from gas customers over a five-year period after new rates are
   implemented.  The MPUC also allows the deferral of MGP-related costs
   applicable to the Minnesota sites and IPC has been successful in obtaining
   approval to recover such costs in rates in Minnesota.  While the IUB does
   not allow for the deferral of MGP-related costs, it has permitted
   utilities to recover its prudently incurred  costs.  As a result,
   regulatory assets have been recorded by each company which reflect the
   probable future rate recovery, where applicable.  Considering the current
   rate treatment, and assuming no material change therein, each of IESU, IPC
   and WP&L believes that the clean-up costs incurred for these MGP sites
   will not have a material adverse effect on their respective financial
   positions or results of operations.

   In April 1996, IESU filed a lawsuit against certain of its insurance
   carriers seeking reimbursement for its MGP-related costs.  Settlement
   discussions are proceeding with its insurance carriers regarding the
   recovery of these costs. Settlement has been reached with sixteen
   carriers.   In 1994, IPC filed a lawsuit against certain of its insurance
   carriers to recover its MGP-related costs.  Settlements have been reached
   with eight carriers.  Both companies are continuing their pursuit of
   additional recoveries.  Amounts received from insurance carriers are being
   deferred by IESU and IPC pending a determination of the regulatory
   treatment of such recoveries.  WP&L has settled with twelve carriers and
   is also continuing to pursue additional recoveries from other carriers. 
   The three companies are unable to predict the amount of any additional
   insurance recoveries they may realize.

   The Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 (Act) require emission reductions of
   sulfur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen oxides (NOx) and other air pollutants to
   achieve reductions of atmospheric chemicals believed to cause acid rain.
   IESU, IPC and WP&L have met the provisions of Phase I of the Act and are
   in the process of meeting the requirements of Phase II of the Act
   (effective in the year 2000).   The Act also governs SO2 allowances, which
   are defined as an authorization for an owner to emit one ton of SO2 into
   the atmosphere.  The companies are reviewing their options to ensure they
   will have sufficient allowances to offset their emissions in the future. 
   The companies believe that the potential costs of complying with these
   provisions of Title IV of the Act will not have a material adverse impact
   on their financial position or results of operations.  

   The Act and other federal laws also require the United States
   Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to study and regulate, if necessary,
   additional issues that potentially affect the electric utility industry,
   including emissions relating to ozone transport, mercury and particulate
   control as well as modifications to the Polychlorinated Biphenyl (PCB)
   rules.  In July 1997, the EPA issued final rules that would tighten the
   National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) for ozone and particulate
   matter emissions.  IESU, IPC and WP&L are currently reviewing the rules to
   determine what impact they may have on their operations.

   In October 1997, the EPA issued a proposed rule to require 22 states,
   including Wisconsin, to modify their State Implementation Plans (SIPs) to
   address the ozone transport issue.  The proposed rule would require WP&L
   to reduce its NOx emissions at all of its plants to .15 lbs/mmbtu.  WP&L
   cannot presently predict the final outcome of this proposal but believes
   that, under the terms of the proposed rule, it would be required to
   install controls at its plants and that the costs related thereto would be
   significant. 

   In 1995, the EPA published the Sulfur Dioxide Network Design Review for
   Cedar Rapids, Iowa, which, based on the EPA's assumptions and worst-case
   modeling method suggested that the Cedar Rapids area could be classified
   as "nonattainment" for the NAAQS standards established for SO2.  The
   worst-case modeling suggested that two of IESU's generating facilities
   contributed to the modeled exceedences. As a result of exceedences at a
   monitor near one of IESU's generating facilities, the EPA issued a letter
   to the Iowa Governor's office directing the state to develop a plan of
   action.  In this regard, IESU entered into a consent order with the Iowa
   Department of Natural Resources (IDNR) in the third quarter of 1997 on
   this issue.  IESU agreed to limit the SO2 emissions from the two noted
   generating facilities and to install a new stack (potential aggregate
   capital cost of up to $2.5 million over the next two years) at one of the
   facilities.  The IDNR approved the consent order in the fourth quarter of
   1997 and it is expected to be approved by the EPA in the second quarter of
   1998. 

   Pursuant to a routine internal review of documents, IESU determined that
   certain changes undertaken during previous years at one of its generating
   facilities may have required a federal Prevention of Significant
   Deterioration (PSD) permit.  IESU initiated discussions with its
   regulators on the matter, resulting in the submittal of a PSD permit
   application in February 1997.  IESU expects to receive the permit in the
   second quarter of 1998.  IESU may be subject to a penalty for not having
   obtained the permit previously; however, IESU believes that any likely
   actions resulting from this matter will not have a material adverse effect
   on its financial position or results of operation.

   Pursuant to a separate routine internal review of plant operations, IESU
   determined that certain permit limits were exceeded in 1997 at one of its
   generating facilities in Cedar Rapids.  IESU has initiated discussions
   with its regulators on the matter and has proposed a compliance plan which
   contemplates operational changes.  In addition, IESU will be submitting a
   PSD permit application in the second quarter of 1998.  IESU may be subject
   to a penalty for exceeding permit limits established for this facility;
   however, management believes that any likely actions resulting from this
   matter will not have a material adverse effect on IESU's financial
   position or results of operations.

   A global treaty has been negotiated that could require reductions of
   greenhouse gas emissions from utility plants.  Negotiators left
   significant implementation and compliance questions open to resolution at
   meetings to be held starting in November 1998.  At this time, management
   is unable to predict whether Congress will ratify the treaty.  Given the
   uncertainty of the treaty ratification and the ultimate terms of the final
   regulations, management cannot currently estimate the impact the
   implementation of the treaty would have on its operations.

   The Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 (NWPA) assigned responsibility to the
   U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) to establish a facility for the ultimate
   disposition of high level waste and spent nuclear fuel and authorized the
   DOE to enter into contracts with parties for the disposal of such material
   beginning in January 1998.  IESU and WP&L entered into such contracts and
   have made the agreed payments to the Nuclear Waste Fund (NWF) held by the
   U.S. Treasury.  The companies were subsequently notified by the DOE that
   it was not able to begin acceptance of spent nuclear fuel by January 31,
   1998.  Furthermore, DOE has experienced significant delays in its efforts
   and material acceptance is now expected to occur no earlier than 2010 with
   the possibility of further delay being likely.  IESU and WP&L are
   evaluating and pursuing multiple options, including litigation and
   legislation to protect its customers and its contractual and statutory
   rights that are diminished by delays in the DOE program.  

   The NWPA assigns responsibility for interim storage of spent nuclear fuel
   to generators of such spent nuclear fuel, such as IESU and WP&L.  In
   accordance with this responsibility, IESU and WP&L have been storing spent
   nuclear fuel on site at DAEC and Kewaunee, respectively, since plant
   operations began.  DAEC has current on-site capability to store spent fuel
   until 2001.  IESU is currently reviewing its options to expand on-site
   storage capability.  To provide assurance that both the operating and
   post-shutdown storage needs are satisfied, a combination of expanding the
   capacity of the existing fuel pool and construction of a dry cask modular
   facility are being contemplated.  With minor modifications, Kewaunee would
   have sufficient fuel storage capacity to the end of the license life in
   2013.  Legislation is being considered on the federal level to provide for
   the establishment of an interim storage facility as early as 2002.

   The Low-Level Radioactive Waste Policy Amendments Act of 1985 mandates
   that each state must take responsibility for the storage of low-level
   radioactive waste produced within its borders.  The States of Iowa and
   Wisconsin are members of the six-state Midwest Interstate Low-Level
   Radioactive Waste Compact (Compact) which is responsible for development
   of any new disposal capability within the Compact member states.  In June
   1997, the Compact commissioners voted to discontinue work on a proposed
   waste disposal facility in the State of Ohio because the expected cost of
   such a facility was comparably higher than other options currently
   available.  Dwindling waste volumes and continued access to existing
   disposal facilities were also reasons cited for the decision.  A disposal
   facility located near Barnwell, South Carolina continues to accept the
   low-level waste and IESU and WP&L currently ship the waste each produces
   to such site, thereby minimizing the amount of low-level waste stored on-
   site.  In addition, given technological advances, waste compaction and the
   reduction in the amount of waste generated, DAEC and Kewaunee each have
   on-site storage capability sufficient to store low-level waste expected to
   be generated over at least the next ten years, with continuing access to
   the Barnwell disposal facility extending that on-site storage capability
   indefinitely.

   The National Energy Policy Act of 1992 requires owners of nuclear power
   plants to pay a special assessment into a "Uranium Enrichment
   Decontamination and Decommissioning Fund."  The assessment is based upon
   prior nuclear fuel purchases.  IESU is recovering the costs associated
   with this assessment through its electric fuel adjustment clauses over the
   period the costs are assessed.  IESU's 70% share of the future assessment
   at December 31, 1997 was $8.9 million and has been recorded as a liability
   with a related regulatory asset for the unrecovered amount.  WP&L is also
   recovering these costs from its customers and at December 31, 1997 had a
   regulatory asset and a liability of $5.9 million and $5.1 million
   recorded, respectively.

   Whiting Petroleum Corporation (Whiting), a wholly-owned subsidiary of
   Diversified, is responsible for certain dismantlement and abandonment
   costs related to various off-shore oil and gas platforms (and related on-
   shore plants and equipment), the most significant of which is located off
   the coast of California.  Whiting estimates the total costs for these
   properties to be approximately $14 million and the expenditures are not
   expected to be incurred for approximately five years.  Whiting accrues
   these costs as reserves are extracted, resulting in a recorded liability
   of $8.6 million at December 31, 1997.

   Power Supply

   The power supply concerns of 1997 have raised awareness of the electric
   system reliability challenges facing Wisconsin and the Midwest region. 
   WP&L was among an 11-member group of Wisconsin energy suppliers that, on
   October 1, 1997, recommended to the Governor of Wisconsin a series of
   recommendations to improve electric reliability in the state. The
   recommendations included additional transmission system capacity to
   substantially increase Wisconsin's ability to import electricity from
   other states in the region and additional power plant capacity in eastern
   Wisconsin. As a result, WP&L and other Wisconsin-based utilities are
   advocating faster PSCW approval of needed transmission projects.

   On September 24, 1997, the PSCW ordered WP&L and two other Wisconsin
   utilities to arrange for additional electric capacity to help maintain
   reliable service for their customers. In response to this order, WP&L has
   issued a Request for Proposal (RFP) for contracts to provide WP&L with an
   additional 150 megawatts of electric capacity beginning as early as June
   1, 1999. WP&L anticipates its RFP will result in a purchased power
   arrangement with a contract period of three to eight years and contract
   extension or "rollover" options. WP&L expects to award the contract at the
   end of the second quarter of 1998.

   Utility officials noted that it will take time to get new transmission and
   power plant projects approved and built. While utility officials fully
   expect to meet customer demands in 1998 and 1999, problems still could
   arise if there are unexpected power plant outages, transmission system
   outages or extended periods of extremely hot weather. 


   WPLH SELECTED CONSOLIDATED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (Unaudited)

   The following unaudited consolidated quarterly data of WPLH, in the
   opinion of management, include adjustments which are normal and recurring
   in nature necessary for the fair presentation of the results of operations
   and financial position. WP&L's results of operations are a significant
   portion of the consolidated results.  The quarterly amounts were affected
   by, among other items, WP&L's rate activities, seasonal weather conditions
   and changes in sales and operating expenses. Refer to "Management's
   Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations"
   for a discussion of these items.  Net income in both the first and second
   quarter of 1997 was lower than the first and second quarter of 1996
   primarily due to lower electric and gas margins. The lower margins
   resulted from warmer weather and several temporary plant outages during
   the first five months of 1997.  In addition, a $3.4 million after-tax gain
   was recognized on the sale of a combustion turbine in the second quarter
   of 1996. 

                                                                 Earnings
                                                                 per Share 
                     Operating       Operating        Net        (basic and
                      Revenues        Income        Income        diluted)
   Quarter Ended            (in thousands except per share data)
       1997:
   March 31            $261,688       $40,637       $21,827         $0.71
   June 30              206,681        19,900         9,007          0.29
   September 30         214,412        31,877        13,953          0.45
   December 31          236,474        36,193        16,467          0.54

       1996:
   March 31            $260,877       $54,012       $31,680         $1.03
   June 30              208,293        30,361        16,539          0.54
   September 30         212,263        28,417        12,596          0.41
   December 31          251,411        30,260        11,093          0.36


   ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

   Not Applicable.

   ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

                          INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                    Page
                                                                   Number
    Report of Management                                              53
    Report of Independent Public Accountants                          54
    Consolidated Statements of Income for the Years Ended 
       December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995                               55
    Consolidated Balance Sheets, December 31, 1997 and 1996           56
    Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended 
       December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995                               57
    Consolidated Statements of Capitalization, December 31, 1997
       and 1996                                                       58
    Consolidated Statements of Common Shareowners' Investment for
       the Years Ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995               59
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                        60


   The supplementary data required by this Item are included in Item 7. under
   the heading "Selected Consolidated Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)."

   

                    WPLH REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL INFORMATION

   WPL Holdings, Inc. management is responsible for the information and
   representations contained in the financial statements and in certain other
   sections of this Annual Report.  The consolidated financial statements
   that follow have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted
   accounting principles.  In addition to selecting appropriate accounting
   principles, management is responsible for the manner of presentation and
   for the reliability of the financial information.  In fulfilling that
   responsibility, it is necessary for management to make estimates based on
   currently available information and judgments of current conditions and
   circumstances.

   Through a well-developed system of internal controls, management seeks to
   ensure the integrity and objectivity of the financial information
   presented in this report.  This system of internal control is designed to
   provide reasonable assurance that the assets of the company are
   safeguarded and that the transactions are executed according to
   management's authorizations and are recorded in accordance with the
   appropriate accounting principles.

   The Board of Directors participates in the financial information reporting
   process through its Audit Committee.




   Erroll B. Davis Jr.
   President and Chief Executive Officer
   WPL Holdings, Inc.




   Edward M. Gleason
   Vice President, Treasurer and Corporate Secretary
   Principal Financial Officer
   WPL Holdings, Inc.                 




   January 30, 1998

   

                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

   To the Shareowners of WPL Holdings, Inc.:

   We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and
   statements of capitalization of WPL Holdings, Inc. (a Wisconsin
   corporation) and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1997 and 1996, and the
   related consolidated statements of income, cash flows and common
   shareowners' investment for each of the three years in the period ended
   December 31, 1997.  These financial statements are the responsibility of
   the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
   these financial statements based on our audits.

   We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
   standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
   obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
   free of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test
   basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
   statements.  An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles
   used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating
   the overall financial statement presentation.  We believe that our audits
   provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

   In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
   in all material respects, the financial position of WPL Holdings, Inc. and
   subsidiaries as of December 31, 1997 and 1996, and the results of its
   operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period
   ended December 31, 1997, in conformity with generally accepted accounting
   principles.





   ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP


   Milwaukee, Wisconsin,                                   
   January 30, 1998 


   

                             WPL HOLDINGS, INC.
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

                                          Year Ended December 31,
                                        1997         1996        1995
                                   (in thousands except for per share data)
   Operating revenues:
     Electric                         $634,143     $589,482     $546,324 
     Gas                               155,883      165,627      139,165 
     Fees, rents, non-utility
      energy sales and other           129,229      177,735      121,766 
                                       -------      -------      ------- 
                                       919,255      932,844      807,255 
                                       -------      -------      ------- 
   Operating expenses:
     Electric production fuels         116,812      114,470      116,488 
     Purchased power                   125,438       81,108       44,940 
     Purchased gas                      99,267      104,830       84,002 
     Other operation and cost of
      non-utility energy               254,796      317,608      252,722 
     Maintenance                        48,058       46,492       42,043 
     Depreciation and amortization     111,289       90,683       86,319 
     Taxes other than income            34,988       34,603       34,188 
                                       -------      -------      ------- 
                                       790,648      789,794      660,702 
                                       -------      -------      ------- 
   Operating income                    128,607      143,050      146,553 
                                       -------      -------      ------- 
   Interest expense and other:
     Interest expense                   42,535       42,027       43,559 
     Allowance for funds used
     during construction                (2,775)      (3,208)      (2,088)
     Miscellaneous, net                 (4,432)     (14,098)      (5,954)
                                       -------      -------      ------- 
                                        35,328       24,721       35,517 
                                       -------      -------      ------- 
   Income before income taxes and
    preferred dividend
    requirement of subsidiary           93,279      118,329      111,036 
   Income taxes                         28,715       41,814       36,108 
   Preferred dividend requirement
    of subsidiary                        3,310        3,310        3,310 
                                       -------      -------      ------- 
   Income from continuing
    operations                          61,254       73,205       71,618 
                                       -------      -------      ------- 
   Discontinued operations:
     Loss from operation of
       discontinued subsidiary,
      net of applicable tax
      benefits of $1,451                    -            -        2,212 
     Loss on disposal of
      subsidiary, net of
      applicable tax
      benefit of $575 and tax
      expense of $3,271                     -         1,297      10,974 
                                      -------       -------     ------- 
                                            -         1,297      13,186 
                                      -------       -------     ------- 
   Net income                         $61,254       $71,908     $58,432 
                                      =======       =======     ======= 

   Earnings per common share
    (basic and diluted):
     Income from continuing
     operations                         $1.99        $2.38         $2.33 
     Discontinued operations              -          (0.04)        (0.43)
                                        -----        -----         ----- 
     Net income                         $1.99        $2.34         $1.90 
                                        =====        =====         ===== 

   Weighted average number of
   shares of common stock
   outstanding                         30,782       30,790         30,774
   Cash dividends paid per common
    share                               $2.00        $1.97         $1.94 
                                        =====        =====         ===== 



          The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated
          financial statements.

   

                               WPL HOLDINGS, INC. 
                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

                                                        December 31,
                                                    1997             1996
   ASSETS                                              (in thousands)
   Utility plant:
     Plant in service--
       Electric                                   $1,790,641      $1,729,311 
       Gas                                           237,856         227,809 
       Water                                          24,864          23,905 
       Common                                        195,815         152,093 
                                                   ---------       --------- 
                                                   2,249,176       2,133,118 
     Less-accumulated provision for
       depreciation                                1,065,726         967,436 
                                                   ---------       --------- 
                                                   1,183,450       1,165,682 
     Construction work in progress                    42,312          55,519 
     Nuclear fuel, net                                19,046          19,368 
                                                   ---------       --------- 
                                                   1,244,808       1,240,569 
                                                   ---------       --------- 
   Other property and equipment:
     Rental, net                                     101,835         112,913 
     Other, net                                        9,424          16,350 
                                                   ---------       --------- 
                                                     111,259         129,263 
                                                   ---------       --------- 
   Investments:
     Nuclear decommissioning trust funds             112,356          90,671 
     Other investments                                28,289          15,408 
                                                   ---------       --------- 
                                                     140,645         106,079 
                                                   ---------       --------- 
   Current assets:
     Cash and equivalents                             13,987          11,070 
      Net accounts receivable and unbilled
       revenue, less allowance for doubtful
       accounts of $1,104 and $1,524,
       respectively                                   78,082          88,798 
     Coal, at average cost                            18,857          15,841 
     Materials and supplies, at average cost          19,274          19,915 
     Gas in storage, at average cost                  12,504           9,992 
     Prepaid gross receipts tax                       22,153          19,389 
     Prepayments and other                             8,151           7,397 
                                                   ---------       --------- 
                                                     173,008         172,402 
                                                   ---------       --------- 
   Restricted cash                                     8,146           6,848 
                                                   ---------       --------- 
   Deferred charges:
     Regulatory assets                                91,314         160,877 
     Other                                            92,627          84,493 
                                                   ---------       --------- 
                                                     183,941         245,370 
                                                   ---------       --------- 
   TOTAL ASSETS                                   $1,861,807      $1,900,531 
                                                   =========       ========= 

    The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
    statements.

   

                               WPL HOLDINGS, INC. 
                     CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (Continued)

                                                    December 31,
                                                1997            1996
   CAPITALIZATION AND LIABILITIES                  (in thousands)

   Capitalization (See Consolidated
    Statements of Capitalization):
     Common shareowners' investment            $607,583        $607,355 
     Subsidiary preferred stock not
      mandatorily redeemable                     59,963          59,963 
     Long-term debt, net                        457,520         362,564 
                                              ---------       --------- 
                                              1,125,066       1,029,882 
                                              ---------       --------- 
   Current liabilities:
     Current maturities of long-term debt        11,528          67,626 
     Variable rate demand bonds                  56,975          56,975 
     Short-term debt                            123,095         102,779 
     Accounts payable and accruals               91,175         106,486 
     Accrued payroll and vacation                16,030          14,500 
     Accrued income taxes                           412           4,669 
     Accrued interest                             8,229           9,085 
     Other                                       31,728          45,218 
                                              ---------       --------- 
                                                339,172         407,338 
                                              ---------       --------- 
   Other credits:
     Accumulated deferred income taxes          253,519         245,686 
     Accumulated deferred investment tax
      credits                                    35,039          36,931 
     Accrued environmental remediation
      costs                                       9,238          74,075 
     Deferred credits and other                  99,773         106,619 
                                              ---------       --------- 
                                                397,569         463,311 
                                              ---------       --------- 
   Commitments and contingencies
    (Note 11)
                                       
   TOTAL CAPITALIZATION AND LIABILITIES      $1,861,807      $1,900,531 
                                              =========       ========= 

      The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated
      financial statements.


   

                                     WPL HOLDINGS, INC.
                           CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

                                                 Year Ended December 31,
                                              1997         1996       1995
   Cash flows generated from (used for)
    operating activities:                             (in thousands)

     Net income                              $61,254      $71,908    $58,432 
     Adjustments to reconcile net income to
       net cash generated from operating
       activities:
        Depreciation and amortization        111,289       90,683     86,319 
        Deferred income taxes                  4,957        7,078      9,908 
        Investment tax credit restored        (1,892)      (1,911)    (1,916)
        Amortization of nuclear fuel           4,444        6,057      7,787 
        Allowance for equity funds used
         during construction                  (2,033)      (2,270)    (1,425)
        (Gain) loss on sale of subsidiary
         and investment                           -        (4,149)    10,974 
        (Gain) loss on disposition of other
         property and equipment                  710       (5,676)        -  
       Changes in assets and liabilities:
        Restricted cash                       (1,298)      (3,582)       (49)
        Net accounts receivable and
         unbilled revenue                     10,716        5,850    (23,183)
        Inventories                           (4,887)      (4,081)     3,750 
        Prepayments and other                 (3,518)       1,201      2,292 
        Accounts payable and accruals        (14,637)      11,661     19,966 
        Accrued taxes                         (4,257)      (1,814)        88 
        Other, net                            (9,625)      19,764     12,974 
                                             -------      -------    ------- 
          Net cash from (used for)
           operating activities              151,223      190,719    185,917 
                                             -------      -------    ------- 
   Cash flows generated from (used for)
    financing activities:
        Common stock cash dividends          (61,562)     (60,656)   (59,701)
        Proceeds from issuance of long-term
         debt                                105,000        1,370        756 
        Reduction of long-term debt          (65,921)      (5,000)   (18,000)
        Net change in short-term debt         20,316       (6,746)    45,024 
        Other, net                                -        (1,367)       941 
                                             -------      -------    ------- 
          Net cash from (used for)
           financing activities               (2,167)     (72,399)   (30,980)
                                             -------      -------    ------- 
   Cash flows generated from (used for)
    investing activities:
        Proceeds from sale of other
         property and equipment                9,700       36,264          - 
        Additions to utility plant,
         excluding AFUDC                    (116,457)    (120,732)   (99,746)
        Additions to nuclear fuel             (4,123)      (6,558)    (7,258)
        Allowance for borrowed funds used
         during construction                    (742)        (938)      (663)
        Dedicated nuclear decommissioning
         trust funds                         (21,685)     (17,314)   (21,566)
        Proceeds from sale of subsidiary
         and investments                          -        24,930          - 
        Purchase of other property and
         equipment                            (2,855)     (20,824)   (26,696)
        Contribution to nonutility joint
         venture                              (5,000)         -           -  
        Other, net                            (4,977)     (13,464)     5,105 
                                             -------      -------    ------- 
          Net cash from (used for)
           investing activities             (146,139)    (118,636)  (150,824)
                                             -------      -------    ------- 
   Net increase (decrease) in cash and
    equivalents                                2,917         (316)     4,113 
   Cash and equivalents at beginning of
    year                                      11,070       11,386      7,273 
                                             -------      -------    ------- 
   Cash and equivalents at end of year       $13,987      $11,070    $11,386 
                                             =======      =======    ======= 
   Supplemental disclosures of cash flow
    information:
     Cash paid during the year:
        Interest on debt                     $42,706      $35,855    $39,984 
        Preferred stock dividends of
         subsidiary                           $3,310       $3,310     $3,310 
        Income taxes                         $23,662      $39,795    $29,499 


       The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated
       financial statements.


   

                                  WPL HOLDINGS, INC.
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CAPITALIZATION

                                                           December 31,
                                                       1997          1996
                                                    (in thousands except for
                                                           share data)
   Common shareowners' investment:
     Common stock $.01 par value, authorized 
      100,000,000 shares, issued and
      outstanding--30,788,593 and 30,773,735
      shares, respectively                               $308           $308 
     Additional paid-in capital                       304,392        303,856 
     Reinvested earnings                              302,883        303,191 
                                                      -------        ------- 
                                                      607,583        607,355 
                                                      -------        ------- 
   Preferred stock:
     Wisconsin Power and Light Company--
      Cumulative, without par value,
        authorized 3,750,000 shares, maximum
        aggregate stated value $150,000,000:
          Preferred stock without mandatory
          redemption, $100 stated value-- 
           4.50% series, 99,970 shares
           outstanding                                  9,997          9,997 
           4.80% series, 74,912 shares
           outstanding                                  7,491          7,491 
           4.96% series, 64,979 shares
           outstanding                                  6,498          6,498 
           4.40% series, 29,957 shares
           outstanding                                  2,996          2,996 
           4.76% series, 29,947 shares
           outstanding                                  2,995          2,995 
           6.20% series, 150,000 shares
           outstanding                                 15,000         15,000 
      Cumulative, without par value, $25
       stated value--
           6.50% series, 599,460 shares
           outstanding                                 14,986         14,986 
                                                      -------        ------- 
                                                       59,963         59,963 
                                                      -------        ------- 
   Long-term debt:
     Wisconsin Power and Light Company--
      First mortgage bonds:
           Series L, 6.25%, due 1998                    8,899          8,899 
           1984 Series A, variable rate, due
           2014 (3.80% at 12/31/97)                     8,500          8,500 
           1988 Series A, variable rate, due
           2015 (3.80% at 12/31/97)                    14,600         14,600 
           1990 Series V, 9.3%, due 2025               27,000         27,000 
           1991 Series A, variable rate, due
           2015 (5.05% at 12/31/97)                    16,000         16,000 
           1991 Series B, variable rate, due
           2005 (5.05% at 12/31/97)                    16,000         16,000 
           1991 Series C, variable rate, due
           2000 (5.05% at 12/31/97)                     1,000          1,000 
           1991 Series D, variable rate, due
           2000 (5.05% at 12/31/97)                       875            875 
           1992 Series W, 8.6%, due 2027               90,000         90,000 
           1992 Series X, 7.75%, due 2004              62,000         62,000 
           1992 Series Y, 7.6%, due 2005               72,000         72,000 
           1992 Series Z, 6.125%, repaid 1997             -           55,000 
      Debentures, 7%, due 2007                        105,000             -  
                                                      -------        ------- 
                                                      421,874        371,874 
                                                      -------        ------- 
     Heartland Development Corporation--
      Multifamily Housing Revenue Bonds issued
        by various housing and community
        development authorities, due 2004-2024,
        2.00% - 7.55%                                  36,503         37,445 
      Other mortgage notes payable, due 1998-
        2042, 0% - 10.75%                              45,106         45,086 
                                                      -------        ------- 
                                                       81,609         82,531 
                                                      -------        ------- 
     WPL Holdings, Inc.--
      8.96% Senior notes, repaid 1997                     -           10,000 
      8.59% Senior notes, due 2004                     24,000         24,000 
                                                      -------        ------- 
                                                       24,000         34,000 
                                                      -------        ------- 
     Less--
      Current maturities                              (11,528)       (67,626)
      Variable rate demand bonds                      (56,975)       (56,975)
      Unamortized discount and premium, net            (1,460)        (1,240)
                                                    ---------      --------- 
                                                      457,520        362,564 
                                                    ---------      --------- 
   TOTAL CAPITALIZATION                            $1,125,066     $1,029,882 
                                                    =========      ========= 


         The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated
         financial statements.

   

                                  WPL HOLDINGS, INC.
                          CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMMON 
                               SHAREOWNERS' INVESTMENT

                                                   Year Ended December 31,
                                                1997        1996       1995
                                               (in thousands except for per
                                                        share data)
   Common stock:
     Balance at beginning of year               $308        $308        $308 
                                             -------     -------     ------- 
     Balance at end of year                      308         308         308 
                                             -------     -------     ------- 
   Additional paid-in capital:
     Balance at beginning of year            303,856     305,223     304,442 
       Other                                     536      (1,367)        781 
                                             -------     -------     ------- 
     Balance at end of year                  304,392     303,856     305,223 
                                             -------     -------     ------- 
   Reinvested earnings:
     Balance at beginning of year            303,191     291,939     293,048 
       Net income                             61,254      71,908      58,432 
       Cash dividends ($2.00 per share,
         $1.97 per share and $1.94 per
         share, respectively)                (61,562)    (60,656)    (59,701)
       Expense of issuing stock and
        other                                     -          -           160 
                                            --------    --------    -------- 
     Balance at end of year                  302,883     303,191     291,939 
                                            --------    --------    -------- 
   TOTAL COMMON SHAREOWNERS' INVESTMENT     $607,583    $607,355    $597,470 
                                            ========    ========    ======== 


    The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
                                   statements.

  

                               WPL HOLDINGS, INC.
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
               (dollars in millions except as otherwise indicated)

   NOTE 1.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING  POLICIES

   a.   General

   The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of WPL
   Holdings, Inc. (WPLH) and its consolidated subsidiaries (collectively, the
   Company).  WPLH is an investor-owned holding company whose primary
   operating company, Wisconsin Power & Light Company (WP&L), is engaged
   principally in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of
   electric energy and the purchase, distribution, transportation and sale of
   natural gas primarily in the state of Wisconsin.  WP&L's principal
   consolidated subsidiary is South Beloit Water, Gas and Electric Co.  The
   Company also has various non-utility subsidiaries which are primarily
   engaged in the environmental and engineering service, affordable housing
   and energy marketing businesses.

   All subsidiaries for which the Company owns directly or indirectly more
   than 50% of the voting stock are included as consolidated subsidiaries. 
   All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been
   eliminated from the consolidated financial statements.

   Unconsolidated investments for which the Company has at least a 20%
   interest are generally accounted for under the equity method of
   accounting.  These investments are stated at acquisition cost, increased
   or decreased for the Company's equity in net income or loss, which is
   included in "Miscellaneous, net" in the consolidated statements of income
   and decreased for any dividends received.  Investments that do not meet
   the criteria for consolidation or the equity method of accounting are
   accounted for under the cost method.  

   Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior years financial
   statements to conform with the current year presentation.

   b.   Regulation

   WP&L's financial records are maintained in accordance with the uniform
   system of accounts prescribed by its regulators.  The Public Service
   Commission of Wisconsin (PSCW) and the Illinois Commerce Commission (ICC)
   have jurisdiction over retail electric and gas revenues.  The Federal
   Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) has jurisdiction over wholesale
   electric revenues.

   c.   Use of Estimates

   The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
   accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
   assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
   disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the
   financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses
   during the reporting period.  Actual results could differ from those
   estimates.

   d.   Cash and Equivalents

   The Company considers all short-term liquid investments with a maturity of
   three months or less to be cash equivalents.

   e.   Utility Plant and Other Property and Equipment

   Utility plant and other property and equipment are recorded at original
   cost.  Utility plant costs include financing costs that are capitalized
   using the FERC method for allowance for funds used during construction
   (AFUDC).  The AFUDC capitalization rates for 1997, 1996 and 1995 were
   6.22%, 10.23% and 6.68%, respectively.  These capitalized costs are
   recovered in rates as the cost of the utility plant is depreciated.

   Normal repairs, maintenance and minor items of utility plant and other
   property and equipment are expensed.  Ordinary utility plant retirements,
   including removal costs less salvage value, are charged to accumulated
   depreciation upon removal from utility plant accounts, and no gain or loss
   is recognized.  Upon retirement or sale of other property and equipment,
   the cost and related accumulated depreciation are removed from the
   accounts and any gain or loss is included in other income and deductions. 

   f.   Depreciation

   The Company uses the straight-line method of depreciation.  For utility
   plant, straight-line depreciation is computed on the average balance of
   depreciable property at individual straight-line regulatory-approved rates
   that consider the estimated useful life and removal cost or salvage value
   as follows:

                        1997           1996           1995
        Electric        3.6%           3.3%           3.3%
        Gas             3.8%           3.7%           3.7%
        Water           2.7%           2.6%           2.5%
        Common         11.9%           8.1%           7.9%

   Depreciation expense related to WP&L's share of the decommissioning of the
   Kewaunee Nuclear Power Plant (Kewaunee) is discussed in Note 11
   "Commitments and Contingencies."  WP&L implemented higher depreciation
   rates effective January 1, 1997.

   Estimated useful lives related to other property and equipment are from 4
   to 12 years for equipment and 31.5 to 40 years for buildings.

   g.   Nuclear Fuel

   Nuclear fuel is recorded at its original cost and is amortized to expense
   based upon the quantity of heat produced for the generation of
   electricity.  This accumulated amortization assumes spent nuclear fuel
   will have no residual value. Estimated future disposal costs of such fuel
   are expensed based on kilowatthours generated.

   h.   Regulatory Assets and Liabilities

   Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 71 (SFAS 71), "Accounting
   for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation," provides that rate-
   regulated public utilities, such as WP&L, record certain costs and credits
   allowed in the ratemaking process in different periods than for
   unregulated entities.  These are deferred as regulatory assets or
   regulatory liabilities and are recognized in the consolidated statements
   of income at the time they are reflected in rates.  If a portion of WP&L's
   operations becomes no longer subject to the provisions of SFAS 71 as a
   result of competitive restructuring or otherwise, a write-down of related
   regulatory assets would be required, unless some form of transition cost
   recovery is established by the appropriate regulatory body that would meet
   the requirements under generally accepted accounting principles for
   continued accounting as regulatory assets during such recovery period.  In
   addition, WP&L would be required to determine any impairment to other
   assets and write-down such assets to their fair value.  As of December 31,
   1997 and 1996, regulatory-created assets included the following:


                                                    1997      1996
    Environmental remediation costs (Note 11)      $16.3     $81.4
    Tax related                                     52.2      57.2
    Jurisdictional plant differences                 7.9       7.6
    Decontamination and decommissioning
      costs of federal enrichment facilities         5.9       6.1
    Other                                            9.0       8.6
                                                   -----     -----
                                                   $91.3    $160.9
                                                   =====     =====

   As of December 31, 1997 and 1996, WP&L had recorded regulatory-related
   liabilities of $39.6 and $33.9, respectively.  These liabilities are
   primarily tax related. 

   i.   Revenue

   The Company accrues revenues for services provided but not yet billed at
   month-end. 

   j.   Income Taxes

   The Company follows the liability method of accounting for deferred income
   taxes, which requires the establishment of deferred tax assets and
   liabilities, as appropriate, for all temporary differences between the tax
   basis of assets and liabilities and the amounts reported in the financial
   statements using currently enacted tax rates as shown in Note 6.

   Investment tax credits are accounted for on a deferred basis and reflected
   in income ratably over the life of the related utility plant.  As part of
   the affordable housing business, the Company is eligible to claim
   affordable housing and historic rehabilitation credits.  These tax credits
   reduce current federal taxes to the extent the Company has consolidated
   taxes payable. 

   k.   Common Shares Outstanding
    
   The weighted average common shares outstanding used in the calculation of
   basic earnings per share were 30,781,998; 30,789,813 and 30,773,588 for
   1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.  The common stock shares used for
   calculating diluted earnings per share were 30,784,136; 30,793,555 and
   30,775,965 for 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.

   NOTE 2.  PROPOSED MERGER OF THE COMPANY

   On November 10, 1995, WPLH, IES Industries Inc. (IES), and Interstate
   Power Company (IPC) entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, as
   amended (Merger Agreement), providing for: a) IPC becoming a subsidiary of
   WPLH, and b) the merger of IES with and into WPLH, which merger will
   result in the combination of IES and WPLH as a single holding company
   (collectively, the Proposed Merger).  The new holding company will be
   named Interstate Energy Corporation (Merged Company).  The Proposed
   Merger, which will be accounted for as a pooling of interests and is
   intended to be tax-free for federal income tax purposes, has been approved
   by the respective Boards of Directors, shareowners, state regulatory
   agencies and most of the federal agencies.  It is still subject to
   approval by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).  The companies
   expect to receive SEC approval in the second quarter of 1998.

   The summary below contains selected unaudited pro forma financial data for
   the year ended December 31, 1997.  The financial data should be read in
   conjunction with the historical consolidated financial statements and
   related notes thereto of WPLH and in conjunction with the unaudited pro
   forma combined financial statements and related notes of the Merged
   Company included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  The pro
   forma combined earnings per share reflect the issuance of shares
   associated with the exchange ratios discussed below.


   

   Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, the outstanding shares of WPLH's
   common stock will remain unchanged and outstanding as shares of the Merged
   Company's common stock, each outstanding share of IES common stock will be
   converted to 1.14 shares of the Merged Company's common stock and each
   share of IPC common stock will be converted to 1.11 shares of the Merged
   Company's common stock.  It is anticipated that the Merged Company will
   retain WPLH's common share dividend payment level as of the effective time
   of the Proposed Merger.  On January 16, 1998, the Board of Directors of
   WPLH declared a quarterly dividend of $0.50 per share.  This represents an
   annual rate of $2.00 per share.

   IES is a holding company headquartered in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, and is the
   parent company of IES Utilities Inc. (IESU) and IES Diversified Inc.
   (Diversified).  IESU supplies electric and gas service to approximately
   339,000 and 178,000 customers, respectively, in Iowa.  Diversified and its
   principal subsidiaries are primarily engaged in the energy-related,
   transportation and real estate development businesses.  IPC, an operating
   public utility headquartered in Dubuque, Iowa, supplies electric and gas
   service to approximately 166,000 and 50,000 customers, respectively, in
   northeast Iowa, northwest Illinois and southern Minnesota. 

   The Merged Company will be the parent company of  WP&L, IESU and IPC and
   will be registered under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935,
   as amended (1935 Act).  The Merger Agreement provides that these operating
   utility companies will continue to operate as separate entities for a
   minimum of three years after the effective date of the Proposed Merger. 
   In addition, the non-utility operations of WPLH and IES will be combined
   shortly after the effective date of the Proposed Merger under one entity
   to manage the diversified operations of the Merged Company.  The corporate
   headquarters of the Merged Company will be in Madison, Wisconsin.

   NOTE 3.  JOINTLY-OWNED UTILITY PLANTS

   WP&L participates with other Wisconsin utilities in the construction and
   operation of several jointly- owned utility generating plants.  Each of
   the respective owners is responsible for the financing of its portion of
   the construction costs.  Kilowatthour generation and operating expenses
   are divided on the same basis of ownership with each owner reflecting its
   respective costs in its consolidated statements of income.  The chart
   below represents WP&L's proportionate share of such plants as reflected in
   the consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 1997 and 1996. 

   

   NOTE 4.  UTILITY ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE

   WP&L has a contract with a financial organization to sell, with limited
   recourse, certain accounts receivable and unbilled revenues.  These
   receivables include customer receivables, sales to other public utilities
   and billings to the co-owners of the jointly-owned electric generating
   plants that WP&L operates.  The contract allows WP&L to sell up to $150.0
   of receivables at any time.  Expenses related to the sale of receivables
   are paid to the financial organization under this contract, and include,
   along with various other fees, a monthly discount charge on the
   outstanding balance of receivables sold that approximated a 5.83% annual
   rate during 1997.  These costs are recovered in retail utility rates as an
   operating expense.  All billing and collection functions remain the
   responsibility of WP&L.  The contract expires August 16, 1998, unless
   extended by mutual agreement.

   As of December 31, 1997 and 1996, the balance of sold accounts receivable
   that had not been collected totaled $91.0 and $86.5, respectively.  During
   1997, the monthly proceeds from the sale of accounts receivable averaged
   $92.1, compared with $86.6 in 1996.  As of December 31, 1997, the amount
   of sold receivables subject to recourse was $8.2.

   The Company does not have any significant concentrations of credit risk in
   the December 31, 1997 and 1996 utility accounts receivable balances.  

   In June 1996, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS
   No.  125, "Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and
   Extinguishments of Liabilities," which establishes standards for asset and
   liability recognition when transfers occur.   This statement, effective
   January 1, 1997, specifies conditions when control has been surrendered
   which determines if sale treatment of the receivables would be allowed. 
   This standard has not had any impact on the Company's financial position
   or results of operations.

   NOTE 5.  EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

   a.  Pension Plans

   WP&L has noncontributory, defined benefit retirement plans covering
   substantially all employees.  The benefits are based upon years of service
   and levels of compensation. The projected unit credit actuarial cost
   method was used to compute net pension costs and the accumulated and
   projected benefit obligations.  WP&L's policy is to fund the pension cost
   in an amount that is at least equal to the minimum funding requirements
   mandated by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as
   amended (ERISA), and that does not exceed the maximum tax deductible
   amount for the year.

   The following table sets forth the funded status of the plans and amounts
   recognized in the Company's consolidated balance sheets at December 31,
   1997 and 1996:


                                                 1997         1996
   Accumulated benefit obligation
     Vested benefits                          ($173.4)     ($161.0)
     Non-vested benefits                         (6.1)        (3.3)
                                               ------       ------
     Total                                     (179.5)      (164.3)

   Projected benefit obligation                (205.1)      (189.6)
   Plan assets at fair value                    244.4        218.9
                                               ------       ------
     Plan assets in excess of
    projected benefit obligation                 39.3         29.3
   Unrecognized net transition asset            (12.0)       (14.5)
   Unrecognized prior service cost                7.8          3.7
   Unrecognized net loss                          0.8         15.0
                                                -----        -----
     Prepaid pension costs                      $35.9        $33.5
                                                =====        =====
   Assumed rate of return on plan
    assets                                      9.00%        9.00%
                                                =====        =====
   Discount rate of projected
    benefit obligation                          7.25%        7.50%
                                                =====        =====
   Range of assumed rate increases
    for future compensation levels         3.50-4.50%   3.50-4.50%
                                           ==========   ==========

   The net pension cost (benefit) recognized in the consolidated statements
   of income for 1997, 1996 and 1995 included the following components:


                                                  1997       1996       1995

   Service cost                                   $4.8       $5.1       $3.9
   Interest cost on projected benefit
    obligation                                    13.8       13.6       12.9
   Actual return on assets                       (36.2)     (25.0)     (31.6)
   Amortization and deferrals                     15.1        5.5       15.1
                                                 -----      -----      -----
      Net pension cost (benefit)                 ($2.5)     ($0.8)      $0.3
                                                 =====      =====      =====

   During 1997, WP&L expensed $1.3 for an early retirement program for
   eligible bargaining unit employees.

   b.  Other Postretirement Benefits

   WP&L accrues for the expected cost of postretirement health-care and life
   insurance benefits during the employees' years of service based on
   actuarial methodologies that closely parallel pension accounting
   requirements.  WP&L elected delayed recognition of the transition
   obligation in accordance with current accounting principles and is
   amortizing the discounted present value of the transition obligation to
   expense over 20 years.  For WP&L, the cost of providing postretirement
   benefits, including the transition obligation, is being recovered in
   retail rates under current regulatory practices. WP&L's policy is to fund
   the postretirement cost in an amount that is at least equal to the minimum
   funding requirements mandated by ERISA and that does not exceed the
   maximum tax deductible amount for the year.

   The following table sets forth the funded status of the plans and amounts
   recognized in the Company's  consolidated balance sheets at December 31,
   1997 and 1996:


                                                                            
                                                       1997         1996
   Accumulated benefit obligation
      Retirees                                       ($31.4)        ($32.2)
     Fully eligible active plan participants           (4.4)          (5.0)
     Other active plan participants                   (11.3)          (9.4)
                                                      -----          -----
        Total                                         (47.1)         (46.6)
   Plan assets at fair value                           16.1           13.8
                                                      -----          -----
   Accumulated benefit obligation in excess
    of plan assets                                    (31.0)         (32.8)
   Unrecognized transition obligation                  21.0           23.5
   Unrecognized prior service cost                     (0.3)          (0.3)
   Unrecognized net gain                               (8.3)          (5.0)
                                                      -----          -----
     Accrued postretirement benefits
      liability                                      ($18.6)        ($14.6)
                                                      =====          =====
   Assumed rate of return on plan assets              9.00%          9.00%
                                                      =====          =====
   Discount rate of projected benefit
    obligation                                        7.25%          7.50%
                                                      =====          =====
   Medical cost trend on paid charges:
     Initial trend rate                               8.00%          9.00%
                                                      =====          =====
     Ultimate trend rate                              5.00%          5.00%
                                                      =====          =====


   The net postretirement benefits cost recognized in the consolidated
   statements of income for 1997, 1996 and 1995 included the following
   components:

                                           1997        1996        1995
   Service cost                            $1.8         $1.8       $1.5 
   Interest cost on projected benefit
    obligation                              3.3          3.4         3.6
   Actual return on assets                 (1.9)        (1.3)       (2.1)
   Amortization of transition
    obligation                              1.5          1.5         1.5
   Amortization and deferrals               0.5          0.3         1.3
                                           ----         ----        ----
     Net postretirement benefits cost      $5.2         $5.7        $5.8
                                           ====         ====        ====

   Increasing the assumed health-care cost trend rate by one percentage point
   in each year would increase the accumulated postretirement benefit
   obligation as of December 31, 1997 by $2.7 and the aggregate of the
   service and interest cost components of the net periodic postretirement
   benefit cost for the year by $0.4.

   During 1997, WP&L expensed $1.7 for an early retirement program for
   eligible bargaining unit employees. 

   c.  Long-Term Equity Incentive Plan

   WPLH has a long-term equity incentive plan which permits the grant of non-
   qualified stock options, incentive stock options, restricted stock,
   performance shares and performance units to key employees.  As of December
   31, 1997, only non-qualified stock options and equivalent performance
   units had been granted to key employees.  The maximum number of shares of
   common stock that may be issued under the plan may not exceed one million. 
   Options granted to date become exercisable after three years.  Options
   outstanding will expire no later than 10 years after the grant date. The
   first options were granted in 1995 and will become exercisable in January
   1998.  No options have been canceled or exercised to date.  The options
   granted and the value of those options using the Black-Scholes model is as
   follows:


                                        1997          1996        1995
   Options granted                     77,650        72,250       41,900
   Weighted average Black-
   Scholes value of options             $2.15         $2.23        $2.71
   Volatility                            0.15          0.16         0.16
   Risk free interest rate              6.13%         5.26%        7.84%
   Expected life                      3 years       3 years      3 years
   Annual dividend rate                  7.0%          7.0%         7.0%

   WPLH follows APB Opinion 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees," 
   to account for stock options.  No compensation cost is recognized because
   the option exercise price is equal to the market price of the underlying
   stock on the date of grant.  Had compensation cost for the plan been
   determined based on the Black-Scholes value at the grant dates for awards
   as prescribed by SFAS No. 123 "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,"
   pro forma net income and earnings per share would have been:

                                        1997        1996       1995
   Pro forma net income                $61.1       $71.7      $58.3
   Pro forma earnings per share
    (basic and diluted)                $1.98       $2.33      $1.90

   The performance units granted under the plan to date are expensed over the
   three-year vesting period based on the current dividend rate.  In 1997,
   1996 and 1995, WPLH recognized expense of $0.4, $0.2 and $0.1,
   respectively.

   NOTE 6.  INCOME TAXES 

   The following table reconciles the statutory federal income tax rate to
   the effective income tax rate on continuing operations:

                                            1997         1996         1995
                                                        35.0%        35.0%
   Statutory federal income tax rate        35.0%
   State income taxes, net of federal
    benefit                                  7.0         6.8          6.0
   Investment tax credits restored          (2.0)       (1.6)        (1.7)
   Amortization of excess deferred
    taxes                                   (1.6)       (1.4)        (1.5)
   Affordable housing and historical
    tax credits                             (6.7)       (5.0)        (4.5)
   Adjustment of prior period taxes         (2.6)        -            -
   Other differences, net                    1.7         1.6         (0.8)
                                           -----       -----        -----
      Effective income tax                  30.8%       35.4%        32.5%
                                           =====       =====        =====

   The breakdown of income tax expense as reflected in the consolidated
   statements of income is as follows:


                                           1997        1996        1995
   Current federal                          $25.2     $32.8      $25.9 
   Current state                              6.6       9.7        7.2
   Deferred                                   5.0       7.1        9.9
   Investment tax credit restored            (1.9)     (1.9)      (1.9)
   Affordable housing and historical
    tax credits                              (6.2)     (5.9)      (5.0)
                                             ----      ----       ----
                                            $28.7     $41.8      $36.1
                                             ====      ====       ====

   The temporary differences that resulted in accumulated deferred income tax
   (assets) and liabilities as of December 31, 1997 and 1996, are as follows:

                                             1997        1996
   Property related                        $295.4      $282.0 
   Investment tax credit related            (23.5)      (19.9)
   Decommissioning related                  (16.0)      (14.5)
   Other                                     (2.4)       (1.9)
                                             ----        ----
                                           $253.5      $245.7
                                             ====        ====

   NOTE 7.  SHORT-TERM DEBT AND LINES OF CREDIT

   WPLH and its subsidiaries maintain committed bank lines of credit, most of
   which are at the bank prime rates, to obtain short-term borrowing
   flexibility, including pledging lines of credit as security for any
   commercial paper outstanding.  Amounts available under these lines of
   credit totaled $170.0 as of December 31, 1997.  Information regarding
   short-term debt and lines of credit is as follows:

                                          1997          1996          1995
    As of year end--
       Lines of credit borrowings              -             -             -
       Commercial paper outstanding        $81.0         $59.5         $56.5
       Notes payable outstanding           $42.1         $43.3         $53.0
       Discount rates on commercial
         paper                        5.48-5.90%    5.35-5.65%    5.73-5.77%
       Interest rates on notes
         payable                      5.00-5.90%    5.28-6.31%    5.80-6.42%

    For the year ended--
       Maximum month-end amount of
         short-term debt                  $140.0        $103.5        $117.0
       Average amount of short-term
         debt (based on daily
         outstanding balances)             $94.5         $60.8         $68.7
       Average interest rate on
         short-term debt                   5.65%         5.72%         5.95%


   NOTE  8.  DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

   The Company has only limited involvement with derivative financial
   instruments and does not use them for trading purposes.  They are used to
   manage well-defined interest rate and commodity price risks.

   Interest rate swaps and forward contracts:  WP&L enters into interest rate
   swap agreements to reduce the impact of changes in interest rates on its
   floating-rate debt and fees associated with the sale of its accounts
   receivable.  The notional principal amount of interest rate swaps
   outstanding as of December 31, 1997, was $40.0.  Average variable rates
   are based on rates implied in the forward yield curve at the reporting
   date.  The average pay and receive rates associated with these agreements
   are 4.11% and 3.61%, respectively.  The swap agreements have contract
   maturities from three months to two years.  It is not WP&L's intent to
   terminate these contracts; however, the total cost to WP&L if it had
   terminated all of the agreements existing at December 31, 1997 would have
   been $0.2. 

   In 1995, WP&L entered into an interest rate forward contract related to
   the anticipated issuance of $60.0 of long-term debt securities.  The
   securities were not issued in 1996 and the forward contract was closed
   which resulted in a gain of $0.8 to WP&L.  The gain was deferred and was
   recognized as an adjustment to interest expense over the life of the debt
   securities issued during 1997 as discussed in Note 10(b).

   On April 28, 1997, WP&L entered into an interest rate forward contract to
   hedge interest rate risk related to the anticipated issuance of $105.0 of
   long-term debt securities.  The securities were issued in June 1997 and
   the forward contract was settled which resulted in a cash payment of $3.8
   by WP&L.  This payment was recognized as an adjustment to interest expense
   over the life of the new debt securities to approximate the interest rate
   implicit in the forward contract.

   Gas Swaps:  WP&L uses gas commodity swaps to reduce the impact of price
   fluctuations on gas purchased and injected into storage during the summer
   months and withdrawn and sold at current market prices during the winter
   months.  The notional amount of gas commodity swaps outstanding as of
   December 31, 1997 was 4.8 million dekatherms.  Variances between
   underlying commodity prices and financial contracts on these agreements
   are deferred and recognized as increases or decreases in the cost of gas
   at the time the storage gas is sold.  It is not WP&L's intent to terminate
   these contracts; however, the total cost to WP&L if it had terminated all
   of the agreements existing at December 31, 1997 would have been a gain of
   $1.0.  

   Other:  The Company's non-utility energy marketing business periodically
   uses commodity futures contracts, options and swaps to hedge the impact of
   natural gas and electric power price fluctuations on its purchase and sale
   commitments.  Gains and losses on these instruments are deferred and
   recognized in income as adjustments to the costs of energy when the
   related transaction being hedged is finalized.  At December 31, 1997 and
   1996, the instruments outstanding were immaterial.

   NOTE 9.  FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

   The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value
   of each class of financial instruments:

   Current Assets and Current Liabilities - The carrying amount approximates
   fair value due to the short maturities of these financial instruments.  

   Nuclear Decommissioning Trust Funds - As of December 31, 1997 and 1996,
   the investments in the nuclear decommissioning trust fund are carried at
   fair value, as reported by the trustee.  The balance as shown on the
   consolidated balance sheets included a net unrealized gain of $16.4 and
   $9.4 as of December 31, 1997 and 1996, respectively.  

   Preferred Stock of WP&L - Based on quoted market prices for the same or
   similar issues.

   Long-Term Debt - Based upon the market yield of similar securities and
   quoted market prices on the current rates for debt of the same remaining
   maturities.

   The estimated fair values of financial instruments at December 31, 1997
   and 1996:

                                       1997                 1996
                               Carrying     Fair     Carrying    Fair
                                 Value      Value      Value     Value
   Nuclear decommissioning
    trust funds                  $112.4     $112.4      $90.7     $90.7
   Preferred stock                 60.0       51.7       60.0      47.7
   Long-term debt, including
    current portion               526.0      555.7      487.2     503.5

   Since WP&L is subject to regulation, any gains or losses related to the
   difference between the carrying amount and the fair value of WP&L's
   nuclear decommissioning trust funds and long-term debt may not be realized
   by the Company's shareowners.  

   NOTE 10.  CAPITALIZATION

   a.  Common Shareowners' Investment

   During 1997, 1996 and 1995, the Company did not issue any new shares of
   common stock through either its Shareowner Direct Plan or 401(k) Savings
   Plan.  

   In February 1989, the Board of Directors of the Company declared a
   dividend distribution of one common stock purchase right (right) on each
   outstanding share of the Company's common stock.  Each right would
   initially entitle shareowners to buy one-half of one share of the
   Company's common stock at an exercise price of $60.00 per share, subject
   to adjustment.  The rights are not currently exercisable, but would become
   exercisable if certain events occurred related to a person or group
   acquiring or attempting to acquire 20% or more of the outstanding shares
   of common stock.  The rights expire on February 22, 1999, unless redeemed
   or exchanged earlier by the Company.

   A retail rate order effective April 29, 1997 requires WP&L to maintain a
   utility common equity level of 52.00% of total utility capitalization.  In
   addition, the PSCW ordered that it must approve the payment of dividends
   by WP&L to the Company that are in excess of the level forecasted in the
   rate order  ($58.3), if such dividends would reduce WP&L's average common
   equity ratio below 52.00% of total capitalization.  Based on a 13-month
   average for 1997, WP&L's common equity ratio was 52.56%.

   b.  Long-Term Debt

   Substantially all of WP&L's utility plant is secured by its first mortgage
   bonds.  In addition, the Company's long-term debt includes unsecured
   debentures, notes payable and revenue bonds related to its affordable
   housing properties.  Current maturities of long-term debt of the Company
   are as follows: $11.5 in 1998, $4.5 in 1999, $4.1 in 2000, $2.6 in 2001
   and $2.7 in 2002.

   In June 1997, WP&L issued $105.0 of 7% Debentures due June 15, 2007. 
   Approximately $50.0 of the net proceeds was used to repay maturing short-
   term debt and finance utility construction expenditures.  The balance of
   the proceeds was used to retire the $55.0 of WP&L's First Mortgage Bonds,
   Series Z, 6.125%, due July 15, 1997.

   NOTE 11. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

   a.    Coal Contract Commitments

   To ensure an adequate supply of coal, WP&L has entered into certain
   long-term coal contracts.  These contracts include a demand or take-or-pay
   clause under which payments are required if contracted quantities are not
   purchased.  Purchase obligations on these coal and related rail contracts
   total approximately 12.5 million tons through December 31, 2002.  WP&L's
   management believes it will meet minimum coal and rail purchase
   obligations under the contracts.  Minimum purchase obligations on these
   contracts over the next five years are estimated to be $36.0 in 1998,
   $29.0 in 1999, $9.0 in 2000, $9.0 in 2001 and $4.0 in 2002.

   b.   Purchased Power and Gas

   Under firm purchased power and gas contracts, the Company is obligated as
   follows:

                                    Power          Gas
    1998                            $72.0        $37.0
    1999                             76.3         32.7
    2000                             86.5         27.1
    2001                             38.1         22.4
    2002                             28.0         18.0
    Thereafter                       58.0         29.6

   c.   Manufactured Gas Plant Sites

   WP&L has a current or previous ownership interest in 11 properties,
   consisting of 14 individual sites, associated in the past with the
   production of manufactured gas.  Some of these sites contain coal tar
   waste products which may present an environmental hazard.  WP&L owns six
   of these sites, three are currently owned by municipalities and the
   remaining five are all or partially owned by private companies.

   WP&L conducted a comprehensive review in the third quarter of 1997 of its
   liability at each of the 14 sites. This comprehensive review considered
   several recent significant developments and resulted in a reduction in the
   estimate of the probable liability for cleanup.  At December 31, 1997, the
   liability is $9.2.  In addition, management believes it is possible, but
   not likely, that an additional $3.2 of remediation costs may be incurred. 
   In 1996, the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources (DNR) approved less
   costly containment and control strategies as an alternative to excavation
   processes at two sites.  The decline in the liability of approximately
   $65.0 from December 31, 1996 to December 31, 1997, is due to the
   successful implementation of these strategies at those two sites and
   several additional sites.  Further reductions in the liability resulted
   from WP&L receiving an additional close out letter from the DNR, bringing
   the total number of sites with close out letters to four.

   The cleanup estimate discussed above includes the costs of feasibility
   studies, data collection, soil and groundwater remediation activities, and
   ongoing monitoring activities through 2027.  The estimate is based on a
   number of factors including the estimated extent and volume of
   contaminated soil and/or groundwater. Changes in the estimate are
   reasonably possible in the near term.

   Changes in the liability do not immediately impact the earnings of WP&L. 
   Under the current rate making treatment approved by the PSCW, the costs
   expended in the environmental remediation of these sites, net of any
   insurance proceeds, are deferred and collected from gas customers over a
   five-year period after new rates are implemented.  Although no assurance
   can be given, management currently believes future costs will also be
   recovered in rates. The associated regulatory asset is $16.3 as of
   December 31, 1997.

   d.   Spent Nuclear Fuel and Decommissioning Costs

   The current cost of WP&L's share of the estimated costs to decommission
   Kewaunee ($181.3), assuming early retirement, exceeds the trust assets at
   December 31, 1997 ($112.4) by $68.9.  The costs of decommissioning are
   assumed to escalate at an annual rate of 5.83%.

   As required by the PSCW and FERC, WP&L makes annual contributions to
   qualified and nonqualified external trust funds to provide for
   decommissioning of Kewaunee. The Company's annual contribution was $14.3
   for 1997 and $10.7 for 1996  and 1995.  These amounts are fully recovered
   in rates.  The after-tax income of the external trust funds was $3.2 ,
   $2.7 and $2.8 for 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.

   Decommissioning costs, which include the annual contribution to external
   trust funds and earnings on the assets of these trusts, are recorded as
   depreciation expense in the consolidated statements of income with 
   the cumulative amount included in the accumulated provision for
   depreciation on the consolidated balance sheets.  As of December 31, 1997,
   the total decommissioning costs included in the accumulated provision for
   depreciation were $112.4 .

   Under the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982, the U.S. Department of Energy
   (DOE) is responsible for the ultimate storage and disposal of spent
   nuclear fuel removed from nuclear reactors.  Interim storage space for
   spent nuclear fuel is currently provided at Kewaunee.  Currently, there is
   on-site storage capacity for spent fuel through the year 2001.  An
   investment of approximately $2.5 could provide additional storage
   sufficient to meet spent fuel storage needs until the expiration of the
   current operating license.  

   The following summarizes the Company's investment in nuclear fuel at
   December 31, 1997 and 1996:

                                                 1997         1996
    Original cost of nuclear fuel              $169.6       $166.4
    Less-Accumulated amortization               150.5        147.0
                                                -----        -----
       Nuclear fuel, net                        $19.1       $ 19.4
                                                =====        =====


   e.   Nuclear Performance

   WP&L has a 41% ownership interest in Kewaunee.  Kewaunee resumed
   operations on June 12, 1997 after being out of service since September 21,
   1996 for refueling and repairs to the steam generator tubes.  The joint
   owners continue to analyze and discuss other options related to the future
   of Kewaunee, including various ownership transfer alternatives.

   f.   Nuclear Insurance

   The Price Anderson Act provides for the payment of funds for public
   liability claims arising from a nuclear incident.  Accordingly, in the
   event of a nuclear incident, WP&L, as a 41% owner of Kewaunee, is subject
   to an overall assessment of approximately $32.5 per incident, not to
   exceed $4.1 payable in any given year.

   Through its membership in Nuclear Mutual Limited and Nuclear Electric
   Insurance Limited, WP&L has obtained property damage and decontamination
   insurance totaling $1.8 billion for loss from damage at Kewaunee.  In
   addition, WP&L maintains outage and replacement power insurance coverage
   totaling $101.4 in the event an outage exceeds 21 weeks.

   g.   Planned Capital Expenditures

   Plans for the construction and financing of future additions to utility
   plant can be found elsewhere in this report under "Management's Discussion
   and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."

   h.   Loan Commitments

   As of December 31, 1997, HDC had extended commitments to provide $15.7 in
   nonrecourse, fixed rate, permanent financing to developers which are
   secured by affordable housing properties.  The Company anticipates other
   lenders will ultimately finance these properties.

   NOTE 12.  DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

   The Company's financial statements reflect the discontinuance of
   operations of its utility energy and marketing consulting business in
   1995.  The discontinuance of this business resulted in a pre-tax loss in
   the fourth quarter of 1995 of $7.7.  The after tax loss on disposition was
   $11.0 reflecting the associated tax expense on disposition due to the non-
   deductibility of the carrying value of goodwill at sale.  During 1996, the
   Company recognized an additional loss of $1.3, net of applicable income
   tax benefit, associated with the final disposition of the business. 
   Operating revenues, operating expenses, other income and expense and
   income taxes for the discontinued operations for the time periods
   presented have been excluded from income from continuing operations. 
   Interest expense has been adjusted for the amounts associated with direct
   obligations of the discontinued operations.

   NOTE 13. SEGMENT INFORMATION

   The following table sets forth certain information relating to the
   Company's consolidated continuing operations:

                                           1997         1996        1995
    Operation information:
      Customer revenues--
        Electric-utility                 $634.1       $589.5      $546.3
        Gas-utility                       155.9        165.6       139.2
        Environmental and engineering
         services                          78.1         84.8        88.6
        Other                              51.1         92.9        33.2
      Operating income (loss)--
        Electric-utility                 $125.9       $136.3      $134.2
        Gas-utility                        13.7         18.9        17.0
        Environmental and engineering
         services                         (2.0)          0.1         3.7
        Other (a)                         (9.0)       (12.2)       (8.3)

    Investment information:
      Identifiable assets, including
       allocated common plant at
       December 31--
        Electric-utility               $1,245.2     $1,225.3    $1,226.8
        Gas-utility                       193.6        262.1       250.6
        Environmental and engineering
         services                          26.6         33.5        38.1
        Other                             396.4        379.6       356.9
    Other information:
      Construction, decommissioning
       and nuclear fuel--
        Electric-utility                 $123.8       $125.9      $122.3
        Gas-utility                        15.3         18.0        16.9
        Other                              14.2         22.5        14.6
      Depreciation and amortization
       expense--
        Electric-utility                  $91.2        $74.5       $71.4
        Gas-utility                        12.3          9.8         9.6
        Other                               7.8          6.4         5.3

   (a) Excludes the effects of affordable housing and historical tax credits
   of $6.2, $5.9 and $5.0 in 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.

   NOTE 14.  CARGILL JOINT VENTURE

   In July 1997, the Company announced a joint venture with Cargill
   Incorporated to market electricity and risk management services to
   wholesale buyers.  This joint venture, in which the Company has a 50%
   interest, is named Cargill-Alliant.  The joint venture is accounted for
   using the equity method.  As of December 31, 1997, the carrying amount of
   the investment was $4.7. 



   ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
         ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

   None.

                                    PART III

   ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

   The information required by Item 10 relating to directors and nominees for
   election of directors at the 1998 Annual Meeting of Shareowners will be
   incorporated herein by reference to the relevant information in WPLH's
   Proxy Statement for the 1998 Annual Meeting of Shareowners (the 1998 Proxy
   Statement) upon the filing of the 1998 Proxy Statement with the Securities
   and Exchange Commission.  The executive officers of the registrant as of
   the date of this filing are as follows (figures following the names
   represent the officer's age as of December 31, 1997):  

   Executive Officers of WPL Holdings, Inc.

   Erroll B. Davis, Jr., 53, was elected President effective January 1990 and
   Chief Executive Officer effective July 1990 and has been a board member
   since March 1988.

   Edward M. Gleason, 57, was elected Corporate Secretary effective December
   1993 and Vice President-Treasurer effective October 1993.  He has also
   served as Controller, Treasurer, and Corporate Secretary of WP&L since
   1996, Corporate Secretary of WP&L from 1993 to 1996 and Vice President-
   Finance and Treasurer of WP&L from 1986 to 1993.  Mr. Gleason functions as
   principal financial officer of WPL Holdings, Inc. and WP&L.

   Steven F. Price, 45, was elected Assistant Corporate Secretary and
   Assistant Treasurer effective April 1992. 

   NOTE:  None of the executive officers listed above is related to any
   member of the Board of Directors or nominee for director.

   Executive officers have no definite terms of office and serve at the
   pleasure of the Board of Directors. 

   ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

   The information required by Item 11 will be incorporated herein by
   reference to the relevant information in the 1998 Proxy Statement upon the
   filing of the 1998 Proxy Statement with the Securities and Exchange
   Commission. 

   ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
             MANAGEMENT

   The information required by Item 12 will be incorporated herein by
   reference to the relevant information in the 1998 Proxy Statement upon the
   filing of the 1998 Proxy Statement with the Securities and Exchange
   Commission. 

   ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

   The information required by Item 13 will be incorporated herein by
   reference to the relevant information in the 1998 Proxy Statement upon
   filing of the 1998 Proxy Statement with the Securities and Exchange
   Commission.   


                                     PART IV

   ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS
             ON FORM 8-K

   (a) (1)  Consolidated Financial Statements

       Refer to Index to Financial Statements at Item 8 "Financial Statements
     and Supplementary Data."

   (a) (2)  Financial Statement Schedules

          Report of Independent Public Accountants on Schedules
          Schedule I.   Parent Company Financial Statements
          Schedule II.  Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves

     NOTE: All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable
     or not required, or because that required information is shown either
     in the consolidated financial statements or in the notes thereto.

   (a) (3)  Exhibits Required by Securities and Exchange Commission
   Regulation S-K

     The following Exhibits are filed herewith or incorporated herein by
     reference.  Documents indicated by an asterisk (*) are incorporated
     herein by reference.
             
     2A*    Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of November 10, 1995, by
            and among WPL Holdings, Inc., IES industries Inc., Interstate
            Power Company and AMW Acquisition, Inc.  (incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 2.1 to WPLH's Current Report on Form 8-K,
            dated November 10, 1995)

     2B*    Amendment No. 1 to Agreement and Plan of Merger and Stock Option
            Agreements, dated May 22, 1996, by and among WPL Holdings, Inc.,
            IES Industries Inc., Interstate Power Company, a Delaware
            Corporation, AMW Acquisition, Inc., WPLH Acquisition Co. and
            Interstate Power Company, a Wisconsin Corporation (incorporated
            by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to WPLH's Current Report on Form 8-
            K, dated May 22, 1996) 

     2C*    Amendment No. 2 to Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated August
            16, 1996, by and among WPL Holdings, Inc., IES Industries Inc.,
            Interstate Power Company, a Delaware Corporation, WPLH
            Acquisition Co. and Interstate Power Company, a Wisconsin
            Corporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to WPLH's
            Current Report on Form 8-K, dated August 15, 1996)

     2D*    Option Grantor/Option Holder Stock Option and Trigger Payment
            Agreement, dated as of November 10, 1995, by and among WPL
            Holdings, Inc. and IES Industries Inc.  (incorporated by
            reference to Annex B to WPL Holdings, Inc.'s Registration
            Statement on Form S-4 (No. 333-07931))

     2E*    Option Grantor/Option Holder Stock Option and Trigger Payment
            Agreement, dated as of November 10, 1995, by and among WPL
            Holdings, Inc. and Interstate Power Company. (incorporated by
            reference to Annex C to WPL Holdings, Inc.'s Registration
            Statement on Form S-4 (No. 333-07931))

     2F*    Option Grantor/Option Holder Stock Option and Trigger Payment
            Agreement, dated as of November 10, 1995, by and among IES
            Industries Inc. and WPL Holdings, Inc.  (incorporated by
            reference to Annex D to WPL Holdings, Inc.'s Registration
            Statement on Form S-4 (No. 333-07931))

     2G*    Option Grantor/Option Holder Stock Option and Trigger Payment
            Agreement, dated as of November 10, 1995, by and among IES
            Industries, Inc. and Interstate Power Company.  (incorporated by
            reference to Annex E to WPL Holdings, Inc.'s Registration
            Statement on Form S-4 (No. 333-07931))

     2H*    Option Grantor/Option Holder Stock Option and Trigger Payment
            Agreement, dated as of November 10, 1995, by and among
            Interstate Power Company and WPL Holdings, Inc.  (incorporated
            by reference to Annex F to WPL Holdings, Inc.'s Registration
            Statement on Form S-4 (No. 333-07931))

     2I*    Option Grantor/Option Holder Stock Option and Trigger Payment
            Agreement, dated as of November 10, 1995, by and among
            Interstate Power Company and IES Industries Inc.  (incorporated
            by reference to Annex G to WPL Holdings, Inc.'s Registration
            Statement on Form S-4 (No. 333-07931))

     3A*    Restated Articles of Incorporation of WPL Holdings, Inc.
            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to WPL Holdings,
            Inc.'s Form S-3 Registration Statement No. 33-59972)

     3B*    Form of Amendment of the Restated Articles of Incorporation of
            WPL Holdings, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to
            WPL Holdings, Inc.'s Registration Statement on Form S-4 (No.
            333-07931))

     3C*    By-Laws of WPL Holdings, Inc. as Amended (incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 3B to WPL Holdings, Inc.'s Quarterly Report
            on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1996)

     4A*    Indenture of Mortgage or Deed of Trust dated August 1, 1941,
            between WP&L and First Wisconsin Trust Company and George B.
            Luhman, as Trustees, filed as Exhibit 7(a) in File No. 2-6409,
            and the indentures supplemental thereto dated, respectively,
            January 1, 1948, September 1, 1948, June 1, 1950, April 1, 1951,
            April 1, 1952, September 1, 1953, October 1, 1954, March 1,
            1959, May 1, 1962, August 1, 1968, June 1, 1969, October 1,
            1970, July 1, 1971, April 1, 1974, December 1, 1975, May 1,
            1976, May 15, 1978, August 1, 1980, January 15, 1981, August 1,
            1984, January 15, 1986, June 1, 1986, August 1, 1988, December
            1, 1990, September 1, 1991, October 1, 1991, March 1, 1992, May
            1, 1992, June 1, 1992 and July 1, 1992 (Second Amended
            Exhibit 7(b) in File No. 2-7361; Amended Exhibit 7(c) in File
            No. 2-7628; Amended Exhibit 7.02 in File No. 2-8462; Amended
            Exhibit 7.02 in File No. 2-8882; Second Amendment Exhibit 4.03
            in File No. 2-9526; Amended Exhibit 4.03 in File No. 2-10406;
            Amended Exhibit 2.02 in File No. 2-11130; Amended Exhibit 2.02
            in File No. 2-14816; Amended Exhibit 2.02 in File No. 2-20372;
            Amended Exhibit 2.02 in File No. 2-29738; Amended Exhibit 2.02
            in File No. 2-32947; Amended Exhibit 2.02 in File No. 2-38304;
            Amended Exhibit 2.02 in File No. 2-40802; Amended Exhibit 2.02
            in File No. 2-50308; Exhibit 2.01(a) in File No. 2-57775;
            Amended Exhibit 2.02 in File No. 2-56036; Amended Exhibit 2.02
            in File No. 2-61439; Exhibit 4.02 in File No. 2-70534; Amended
            Exhibit 4.03 File No. 2-70534; Exhibit 4.02 in File No. 33-2579;
            Amended Exhibit 4.03 in File No. 33-2579; Amended Exhibit 4.02
            in File No. 33-4961; Exhibit 4B to WP&L's Form 10-K for the year
            ended December 31, 1988, Exhibit 4.1 to WP&L's Form 8-K dated
            December 10, 1990, Amended Exhibit 4.26 in File No. 33-45726,
            Amended Exhibit 4.27 in File No.33-45726, Exhibit 4.1 to WP&L's
            Form 8-K dated March 9, 1992, Exhibit 4.1 to WP&L's Form 8-K
            dated May 12, 1992, Exhibit 4.1 to WP&L's Form 8-K dated June
            29, 1992 and Exhibit 4.1 to WP&L's Form 8-K dated July 20, 1992)

     4B*    Rights Agreement, dated February 22, 1989, between WPL Holdings,
            Inc. and Morgan Shareholder Services Trust Company (incorporated
            by reference to Exhibit 4 to WPL Holdings, Inc.'s Current Report
            on Form 8-K dated February 27, 1989)

     4C*    Indenture, dated as of June 20, 1997, between WP&L and Firstar
            Trust Company, as Trustee, relating to debt securities
            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.33 to Amendment No. 2 to
            WP&L's Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 33-
            60917))

     4D*    Officers' Certificate, dated as of June 25, 1997, creating the
            7% debentures due June 15, 2007 of WP&L (incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 4 to WP&L's Current Report on Form 8-K,
            dated June 25, 1997)

     10A*#  Executive Tenure Compensation Plan as revised November 1992
            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10A to WPL Holdings,
            Inc.'s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992)

     10B*#  Form of Supplemental Retirement Plan, as revised November 1992
            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10B to WPL Holdings,
            Inc.'s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992)

     10C*#  Forms of Deferred Compensation Plans, as amended June, 1990
            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10C to WPL Holdings,
            Inc.'s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1990)

    10C.1*# Officer's Deferred Compensation Plan II, as adopted September
            1992 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10C.1 to WPL
            Holdings, Inc.'s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992)

    10C.2*# Officer's Deferred Compensation Plan III, as adopted January
            1993 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10C.2 to WPL
            Holdings, Inc.'s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993)

     10F*#  Pre-Retirement Survivor's Income Supplemental Plan, as revised
            November 1992 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10F to WPL
            Holdings, Inc.'s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992)

     10H*#  Wisconsin Power and Light Company Management Incentive Plan
            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10H to WPL Holdings,
            Inc.'s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992)

     10I*#  Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors, as amended January 17,
            1995 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10I to WPL Holdings,
            Inc.'s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995)

     10J*#  WPL Holdings, Inc. Long-Term Equity Incentive Plan (incorporated
            by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to WPL Holdings, Inc.'s Quarterly
            Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1994)

     10K*#  Key Executive Employment and Severance Agreement by and between
            WPL Holdings, Inc. and E.B. Davis, Jr.  (incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 4.2 to WPL Holdings, Inc.'s  Quarterly
            Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1994)

     10L*#  Key Executive Employment and Severance Agreement by and between
            WPL Holdings, Inc. and each of L.W. Ahearn, W.D. Harvey, E.G.
            Protsch, and A.J. Amato  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
            4.3 to WPL Holdings, Inc.'s  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
            the quarter ended June 30, 1994)

     10M*#  Key Executive Employment and Severance Agreement by and between
            WPL Holdings, Inc. and each of E.M. Gleason, B.J. Swan, D.A.
            Doyle, N.E. Boys, D.E. Ellestad, P.J. Wegner, and K.K. Zuhlke 
            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to WPL Holdings,
            Inc.'s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June
            30, 1994)

     10N#   Severance Agreement by and between WPL Holdings, Inc. and Lance
            W. Ahearn

     21     Subsidiaries of WPL Holdings, Inc.

     23     Consent of Independent Public Accountants

     27     Financial Data Schedule 


   Pursuant to Item 601(b)(4)(iii) of Regulation S-K, the registrant agrees
   to furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission, upon request, any
   instrument defining the rights of holders of unregistered long-term debt
   not filed as an exhibit to this Form 10-K.  No such instrument authorizes
   securities in excess of 10% of the total assets of the company.

   Documents incorporated by reference to filings made by WP&L under the
   Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are under File No. 0-337. 
   Documents incorporated by reference to filings made by WPL Holdings, Inc.
   under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are under File No.
   1-9894.

   # - A management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

   (a) (4) Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Financial Information of Interstate
   Energy Corporation:

                                                                 Page Numbers
     Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Balance Sheet at
          December 31, 1997                                            80-81 

     Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Statements of Income for the years 
          ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995                       82-84 

     Notes to Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Financial Statements        85-88 

   (b)  Reports on Form 8-K

           None

   

                          INTERSTATE ENERGY CORPORATION
                     (doing business as Alliant Corporation)

                UNAUDITED PRO FORMA COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



   The unaudited pro forma combined financial statements for Interstate
   Energy Corporation (Merged Company) combine the historical consolidated
   balance sheets and statements of income of IES Industries Inc. (IES),
   Interstate Power Company (IPC) and WPL Holdings, Inc. (WPLH) as adjusted
   by various pro forma adjustments identified in Note 1.  All material
   adjustments known at this time which impact the reporting periods shown
   have been included.  The combination of WPLH, IES and IPC is referred to
   herein as the "Merger."

   These pro forma combined financial statements set forth the restated
   combined financial data that will be presented for future comparative
   financial data for the Merged Company.  The pro forma balance sheet that
   will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission following
   consummation of the Merger will also include an additional pro forma
   adjustment for certain merger-related costs to be recorded upon completion
   of the Merger.  

   These statements are prepared on the basis of accounting for the Merger as
   a pooling of interests and are based on the assumptions set forth in the
   notes thereto.  The historical data for WPLH have been adjusted to reflect
   the restatement of such data to account for certain discontinued
   operations as discussed in Note 6.

   The following information is not necessarily indicative of the financial
   position or operating results that would have occurred had the Merger been
   consummated on the date, or at the beginning of the periods, for which the
   Merger is being given effect nor is it necessarily indicative of future
   operating results or financial position.

   

   
                                                                     
    See accompanying Notes to Unaudited Pro Forma Combined
    Financial Statements.


   

   

    See accompanying Notes to Unaudited Pro Forma Combined
    Financial Statements.

   

   

    See accompanying Notes to Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Financial 
    Statements.

   

   

    See accompanying Notes to Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Financial 
    Statements.


   

   

    See accompanying Notes to Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Financial Statements


   

                          INTERSTATE ENERGY CORPORATION
                          NOTES TO UNAUDITED PRO FORMA
                          COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

   1. Pro Forma Adjustments

   

   (a)  Consolidation of IEA-HES L.L.C.
   In January 1997, IES and WPLH formed a gas marketing joint venture named
   IEA-HES L.L.C.  Pursuant to the applicable accounting rules, IES and WPLH
   each accounted for this joint venture in 1997 under the equity method of
   accounting with their investment recorded on the balance sheet in "Other
   Property, Plant and Equipment -- Net and Other Investments" and their
   allocated portion of earnings on the income statement in "Other Income and
   Deductions, Net".  This pro forma adjustment reflects the financial
   results of IEA-HES L.L.C. as a consolidated subsidiary.
   (b)  Eliminations for IEA-HES L.L.C.
   This pro forma adjustment reflects the elimination of intercompany
   balances of IEA-HES L.L.C.  and also eliminates the equity investments of
   IES and WPLH and their allocated portion of revenues and expenses.  
   (c)  Merged Company Common Stock Adjustment
   The pro forma combined financial statements reflect the conversion of each
   share of IES Common Stock (no par value) outstanding into 1.14 shares of
   Merged Company Common Stock ($.01 par value) and the conversion of each
   share of IPC Common Stock ($3.50 par value) into 1.11 shares of Merged
   Company Common Stock ($.01 par value), and the continuation of each share
   of WPLH Common Stock ($.01 par value) outstanding as one share of Merged
   Company Common Stock, as provided in the Merger Agreement.  The pro forma
   adjustment to common stock equity restates the common stock account to
   equal par value for all shares to be issued ($.01 par value per share of
   Merged Company Common Stock) and reclassifies the excess to other
   stockholders' equity.  The average number of shares of common stock used
   for calculating per share amounts is based on the exchange ratios shown
   below.

   

   The number of shares of common stock at December 31, 1997 used for
   calculating the par value of common stock is based on the exchange ratios
   shown below.

                  Exchange  As reported Pro forma
                   Ratio     12/31/97   12/31/97

   WPLH              N/A      30,789     30,789
   IES              1.14      30,577     34,858
   IPC              1.11       9,761     10,835


   (d)  IPC Unbilled Revenues
   The financial results of IPC do not include accrued revenues for services
   rendered but unbilled at month-end.  The pro forma adjustment reflects the
   impact of adopting unbilled revenues, including the tax impact of the
   adoption.  The change is being implemented to conform to the method
   currently utilized by WPLH and IES.
   (e)  IES Pension Liability
   The accrued pension liability (and offsetting regulatory asset), included
   in the financial results of IES, was calculated using a five-year smoothed
   method of recognizing deferred asset gains.  The pro forma adjustment
   reflects a change to the straight market value method which recognizes
   deferred asset gains sooner.  The change is being implemented to conform
   to the method currently utilized by WPLH and IPC.
   (f)  IEA Gas Activity
   The gas revenues and cost of gas sold of Industrial Energy Applications,
   Inc. (IEA), a subsidiary of IES, for 1996 and 1995 have been reclassed
   into "Other" operating revenues and "Other operation" expenses,
   respectively, consistent with the 1997 presentation.

   2.  Preferred Stock Dividends of IPC
   The Preferred Stock Dividends of IPC have been reclassified in the
   unaudited pro forma combined statements as "Preferred Dividends of
   Subsidiaries" and deducted in the determination of income from continuing
   operations which reflects the holding company structure of the Merged
   Company.

   3.  Nonrecurring Material Items Included in Historical Financial Results
   IES's income from continuing operations for the year ended December 31,
   1996 included costs incurred relating to its successful defense of a
   hostile takeover attempt mounted by MidAmerican Energy Company.  The
   after-tax impact on income from continuing operations was a decrease of
   $4.6 million.

   Nonrecurring items affecting WPLH's performance for the year ended
   December 31, 1996 included the impact of the sale of a combustion turbine
   and the sale of WPLH's assisted-living real estate investments.  The
   after-tax impact of these items on continuing operations was an increase
   of $5.9 million. 

   4.  Estimated Costs and Cost Savings of Proposed Merger
   The allocation between WPLH, IES and IPC and their customers of the
   estimated cost savings of approximately $749 million over ten years
   resulting from the merger, net of the costs incurred to achieve such
   savings, will be subject to regulatory review and approval.  Costs arising
   from the Merger are currently estimated to be approximately $78 million. 
   Approximately $22 million of these costs had been incurred through
   December 31, 1997 and are reflected in results of operations.  The
   estimate of potential cost savings constitutes a forward-looking statement
   and actual results may differ materially from this estimate.  The estimate
   is necessarily based upon various assumptions that involve judgments with
   respect to, among other things, future national and regional economic and
   competitive conditions, technological developments, inflation rates,
   regulatory treatment, weather conditions, financial market conditions,
   future business decisions and other uncertainties.  No assurance can be
   given that the estimated cost savings will actually be realized.  None of
   the estimated cost savings, or costs to be incurred subsequent to December
   31, 1997 to achieve such savings, have been reflected in the unaudited pro
   forma combined financial statements. 

   5.  Intercompany Transactions
   Intercompany transactions (including purchased and exchange power
   transactions) between WPLH, IES and IPC during the periods presented were
   included in the determination of regulated rates and/or were not material. 
   Accordingly, no pro forma adjustments were made to eliminate such
   transactions.

   6.  Discontinued Operations
   The financial statements of WPLH reflect the discontinuance of operations
   of its utility energy and marketing consulting business in 1995.  The
   discontinuance of this business resulted in a pre-tax loss in the fourth
   quarter of 1995 of $7.7 million.  The after-tax loss on disposition was
   $11.0 million reflecting the associated tax expense on disposition due to
   the non-deductibility of the carrying value of goodwill at sale.  During
   1996, WPLH recognized an additional loss of $1.3 million, net of
   applicable income tax benefit, associated with the final disposition of
   the business.  Operating revenues, operating expenses, other income and
   expense and income taxes for the discontinued operations for the time
   periods presented have been excluded from income from continuing
   operations.  Interest expense has been adjusted for the amounts associated
   with direct obligations of the discontinued operations.

   

                                   SIGNATURES

      Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
   Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be
   signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized on the
   14th day of April 1998.

                                     WPL HOLDINGS, INC.

                                     By: /s/ Erroll B. Davis, Jr.
                                         Erroll B. Davis, Jr.
                                         President and Chief Executive
                                         Officer

      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
   this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of
   the registrant and in the capacities indicated on the 14th day of
   April 1998.


   /s/ Erroll B. Davis, Jr.    President, Chief Executive Officer and
   Erroll B. Davis, Jr.        Director (Principal Executive Officer)



   /s/ Edward M. Gleason       Vice President, Treasurer and Corporate
   Edward M. Gleason           Secretary (Principal Financial and Accounting
                               Officer)



                           Director /s/ Milton E. Neshek          Director
   L. David Carley                  Milton E. Neshek



   /s/ Rockne G. Flowers   Director                               Director
   Rockne G. Flowers                Henry C. Prange 



                           Director /s/ Judith D. Pyle            Director
   Donald R. Haldeman               Judith D. Pyle



   /s/ Katharine C. Lyall  Director _____________________         Director
   Katharine C. Lyall               Carol T. Toussaint



   /s/ Arnold M. Nemirow      Director
   Arnold M. Nemirow


   


   REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS ON SCHEDULES


   To the Shareowners of WPL Holdings, Inc.:


   We have audited, in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards,
   the consolidated financial statements in the 1997 Form 10-K of WPL
   Holdings, Inc. and have issued our report thereon dated January 30, 1998. 
   Our audit was made for the purpose of forming an opinion on those
   statements taken as a whole.  Supplemental Schedules I and II are the
   responsibility of management and are presented for purposes of complying
   with the Securities and Exchange Commission's rules and are not part of
   the basic consolidated financial statements.  These schedules have been
   subjected to the auditing procedures applied in the audit of the basic
   consolidated financial statements and, in our opinion, fairly state in all
   material respects the financial data required to be set forth therein in
   relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole.





   ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

   Milwaukee, Wisconsin                           
   January 30, 1998

   

                             SCHEDULE I - CONDENSED

                       PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                               WPL HOLDINGS, INC.
                              (Parent Company Only)

         Supplemental Notes to Parent Company Only Financial Statements

   The following are supplemental notes to the WPL Holdings, Inc. (the
   Company) Parent Company Financial Statements and should be read in
   conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto
   included in WPL Holdings, Inc. 1997 Annual Report, which are hereby 
   incorporated by reference.

   Note A.  The parent company files a consolidated federal income tax return
   with its subsidiaries.

   Note B.  Net amounts due to (due from) affiliates result from intercompany
   transactions including loans and an administrative allowance.

   Note C.  Information regarding short term debt is as follows:

                                          1997           1996
                                             (in thousands)   
   As of end of year:
     Notes payable                        $42,000        $28,500 
     Interest rates on notes payable    5.00-5.90%     5.28-6.31%
   For the year ended:
     Maximum month-end amount of
      short-term debt                     $63,000        $34,000 
     Average amount of short-term
      debt                                $45,266        $26,899 
     Average interest rate on
      short-term debt                        5.66%          5.55%

   Note D.  During 1997, 1996 and 1995, Wisconsin Power and Light Company
   allocated and billed certain administrative and general expenses to the
   Company using an allocation method approved by the Public Service
   Commission of Wisconsin.  These expenses totaled $1,830,549; $1,516,585
   and $2,005,000 during 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.

   Note E.  Certain reclassifications have been made to prior years financial
   statements to conform with the current year presentation.

   

                             SCHEDULE I - CONDENSED

                       PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                               WPL HOLDINGS, INC.
                              (Parent Company Only)

                  STATEMENTS OF INCOME AND REINVESTED EARNINGS

                                             
                                      For the years ended December 31,
                                         1997      1996      1995
                                               (in thousands)
   Income:
     Equity in earnings of subsidiaries
       after dividends                   $2,982    $4,952     $994 
     Cash dividends from subsidiaries    62,164    69,155   59,701 
     Investment income and other            149     1,081      250 
                                         ------    ------   ------ 
                                         65,295    75,188   60,945 
                                         ------    ------   ------ 
   Expenses:
     Operating (Note D)                   5,568     2,136    2,443 
     Interest and other                     595     1,437    1,248 
                                         ------    ------   ------ 
                                          6,163     3,573    3,691 
                                         ------    ------   ------ 
   Income before income tax benefit      59,132    71,615   57,254 
   Income tax benefit (expense):
     Current                              2,135       627    1,178 
     Deferred                               (13)     (334)      -  
                                         ------    ------   ------ 
                                          2,122       293    1,178 
                                         ------    ------   ------ 
   Net income                            61,254    71,908   58,432 
                                         ------    ------   ------ 
   Reinvested earnings, beginning
    of year                             303,191   291,939  293,048 
     Cash dividends                     (61,562)  (60,656) (59,701)
     Other                                   -         -       160 
                                        -------   -------  ------- 
   Reinvested earnings,
    end of year                        $302,883  $303,191 $291,939 
                                        =======   =======  ======= 

   

                             SCHEDULE I - CONDENSED

                       PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                               WPL HOLDINGS, INC.
                              (Parent Company Only)

                                 BALANCE SHEETS

                                                  
                                             December 31,   
                                            1997      1996
   ASSETS:                                        
                                            (in thousands)   
     Current Assets
       Cash and equivalents                $6,632     $3,817 
       Notes receivable - 
         affiliates (Note B)               30,471     47,308 
                                           ------     ------ 
                                           37,103     51,125 
                                           ------     ------ 
     Accounts receivable from WPL
      Holdings DRIP                           150        150 
                                           ------     ------ 
     Tax benefit receivable                   644        507 
                                           ------     ------ 
     Property and equipment, net              999        999 
                                           ------     ------ 
     Investments and other                    558      1,948 
                                           ------     ------ 
     Investments in subsidiaries,
      at equity:
        Wisconsin Power and Light
         Company                          585,739    576,158 
        Heartland Development
         Corporation                       53,903     41,115 
                                          -------    ------- 
                                          639,642    617,273 
                                          -------    ------- 
     Deferred income taxes                     39         52 
                                          -------    ------- 
        Total assets                     $679,135   $672,054 
                                          =======    ======= 

   LIABILITIES AND CAPITALIZATION:

     Current Liabilities:
       Short term debt (Note C)           $42,000    $28,500 
       Current maturities of
         long-term debt                        -      10,000 
       Accounts payable - affiliates
         (Note B)                           4,752      1,723 
       Accrued interest and other             264        107 
       Dividends payable                      252        308 
                                          -------    ------- 
                                           47,268     40,638 
       Long-term debt                      24,000     24,000 
       Deferred credit and other              284         61 
                                          -------    ------- 
                                           71,552     64,699 
                                          -------    ------- 
     Capitalization:
       Common stock, $.01 par value,
        authorized 100,000,000 shares;
        issued and outstanding-
        30,788,593 and 30,773,735
        shares, respectively                  308        308 
       Additional paid-in capital         304,392    303,856 
       Reinvested earnings                302,883    303,191 
                                          -------    ------- 
                                          607,583    607,355 
                                          -------    ------- 
       Total Liabilities and
         Capitalization                  $679,135   $672,054 
                                          =======    ======= 

   

                             SCHEDULE I - CONDENSED

                       PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                               WPL HOLDINGS, INC.
                              (Parent Company Only)

                            STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                                             
                                      For the years ended December 31,
                                         1997      1996        1995
                                              (in thousands)

   Cash flows generated from (used
    for) operating activities:
     Net income                      $61,254   $71,908     $58,432 
     Equity in earnings of
      subsidiaries after
      dividends                       (2,982)   (4,952)       (994)
     Equity investments in
      subsidiaries                   (19,387)     (106)        119 
     Depreciation                          -         -          10 
     Deferred income taxes                13       335        (288)
     Changes in assets and
      liabilities:
      Receivables                     16,837     6,190     (24,028)
      Investments                      1,390    (1,748)         67 
      Accounts payable                 3,029     1,740         129 
      Accrued taxes                       -      1,170        (258)
      Accrued interest and other         157      (141)         28 
      Dividends payable                  (56)       54          26 
      Other                               86      (376)       (778)
                                     -------   -------     ------- 
         Net cash from (used for)
           operating activities       60,341    74,074      32,465 

   Cash flows generated from (used
    for) financing activities:
     Long-term debt maturities       (10,000)       -           -  
     Net change in short term debt    13,500    (8,500)     25,500 
     Common stock cash dividends     (61,562)  (60,656)    (59,701)
     Other                               536    (1,367)        941 
                                     -------   -------     ------- 
         Net cash from (used for)
           investing activities      (57,526)  (70,523)    (33,260)

   Net increase (decrease) in cash
    and equivalents                    2,815     3,551        (795)
   Cash and equivalents at beginning
    of year                            3,817       266       1,061 
                                     -------   -------     ------- 
   Cash and equivalents at end
    of year                           $6,632    $3,817        $266 
                                     =======   =======     ======= 

   

   


   
   