
10-K
FORM 10-K



                UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C.  20549

                                   FORM  10-K
      
       X   ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
           THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (Fee Required)
            For the fiscal year ended   December 31, 1993  
      
           TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
           THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (No Fee Required)
            For the transition period from __________ to __________

   Commission file number  1-9894 

                              WPL HOLDINGS, INC.                         
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

            Wisconsin                                        39-1380265      
   (State or other jurisdiction of                        (I.R.S. Employer   
   incorporation or organization)                      Identification Number)

     222 West Washington Avenue, Madison, Wisconsin                53703     
        (Address of principal executive offices)                (Zip Code)

   Registrant's telephone number, including area code          (608) 252-3311

   Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                    Name of each exchange on 
        Title of each class                             which registered     

   Common Stock (Par Value $.01 Per Share)          New York Stock Exchange

   Common Stock Purchase Rights                     New York Stock Exchange  

   Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                                      None
                                (Title of class)

               Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
   pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will
   not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive
   proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of

   this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.   /X/

               Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
   all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
   Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter
   period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has
   been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.
   Yes   X      No      

               The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by
   nonaffiliates of the registrant: $943,671,837 based upon the closing price
   as of January 31, 1993 of Common Stock, $.01 par value, on the New York
   Stock Exchange as reported in the Wall Street Journal.

               Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the
   registrant's classes of common stock, as of the latest practicable date.

             Class                            Outstanding at January 31, 1994

   Common Stock, $.01 par value                         30,441,027 shares

   Documents incorporated by reference:

               Portions of the Company's 1994 Proxy Statement relating to
   its 1994 Annual Meeting of Shareowners (to be filed with the Commission
   under Regulation 14A within 120 days after the end of the registrant's
   fiscal year) are incorporated by reference into Part III hereof.

   
                               WPL HOLDINGS, INC.
                                    FORM 10-K
                                December 31, 1993

                                



   Part I.  Business   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

                  Properties   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

                  Legal Proceedings  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

                  Executive Officers   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

   Part II. Financial Information  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

   Part III.   Directors and Executive Officers
                   Information  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

   Part IV. Exhibits   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

   Signatures  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

   Report of Independent Public Accountants on Scheduless  . . . . . . . . 

   
                                     PART I
   ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

            WPL Holdings, Inc. (herein sometimes referred to as the
   "company") was incorporated under the laws of the State of Wisconsin on
   April 22, 1981 and operates as a holding company with both utility and
   nonregulated businesses.  It is the parent company of a public utility,
   Wisconsin Power and Light Company (WP&L) and its related subsidiaries, and
   of Heartland Development Corporation ("HDC"), the parent corporation for
   the company's nonregulated businesses.

                                      WP&L

            WP&L incorporated in Wisconsin on February 21, 1917, as the
   Eastern Wisconsin Electric Company, is a public utility predominately
   engaged in the transmission and distribution of electric energy and the
   generation and bulk purchase of electric energy for sale.  It also
   transports, distributes and sells natural gas purchased from gas
   suppliers.  Nearly all of the WP&L's customers are located in south and
   central Wisconsin.  WP&L operates in municipalities pursuant to permits of
   indefinite duration which are regulated by Wisconsin law.  WP&L does not
   derive a material portion of its revenues from any one customer.

            WP&L owns all of the outstanding capital stock of South Beloit
   Water, Gas and Electric Company ("South Beloit"), a public utility
   supplying electric, gas and water service, principally in Winnebago
   County, Illinois, which was incorporated on July 23, 1908.

            WP&L also owns varying interests in several other subsidiaries
   and investments which are not material to WP&L's operations.

   Regulation

            The company and WP&L are subject to regulation by the Public
   Service Commission of Wisconsin ("PSCW") as to retail utility rates and
   service, accounts, issuance and use of proceeds of securities, certain
   additions and extensions to facilities, and in other respects.  South
   Beloit is subject to regulation by the Illinois Commerce Commission
   ("ICC") for similar items.  The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
   ("FERC") has jurisdiction under the Federal Power Act over certain of the
   electric utility facilities and operations, wholesale rates and accounting
   practices of WP&L and in certain other respects.  Certain of WP&L's
   natural gas facilities and operations are subject to the jurisdiction of
   the FERC under the Natural Gas Act.  The company is presently exempt from
   all provisions of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, except
   provisions relating to the acquisition of securities of other public
   utility companies.

            An anticipated change in the regulatory environment is the
   movement towards the deregulation of certain aspects of utility
   operations.  WP&L is in the process of evaluating the impacts of such
   deregulation.

            With respect to environmental matters, the United States
   Environmental Protection Agency administers certain federal statutes;
   others are delegated to the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources
   ("DNR").  In addition, the DNR has jurisdiction over air and water quality
   standards associated with fossil fuel fired electric generation and the
   level and flow of water, safety and other matters pertaining to
   hydroelectric generation.

            WP&L is subject to the jurisdiction of the Nuclear Regulatory
   Commission ("NRC") with respect to the Kewaunee nuclear plant and to the
   jurisdiction of the United States Department of Energy ("DOE") with
   respect to the disposal of nuclear fuel and other radioactive wastes from
   the Kewaunee Nuclear Power Plant ("Kewaunee").

   Employees

            At year-end 1993, WP&L employed 2,673 persons, of whom 2,136
   were considered electric utility employees, 387 were considered gas
   utility employees and 150 were considered other utility employees.  WP&L
   has a three-year contract with members of the International Brotherhood of
   Electrical Workers, Local 965, that is in effect until June 1, 1996.  The
   contract covers 1,742 of WP&L's employees.

   ELECTRIC OPERATIONS:

   General

            The company, through WP&L provides electricity in a service
   territory of approximately 16,000 square miles in 35 counties in southern
   and central Wisconsin and four counties in northern Illinois.  As of
   December 31, 1993, the company provided retail electric service to
   approximately 360,000 customers in 609 cities, villages and towns, and
   wholesale service to 25 municipal utilities, 1 privately owned utility,
   three rural electric cooperatives and to Wisconsin Public Power, Inc.
   System, which provides retail service to nine communities.

            WP&L owns 21,579 miles of electric transmission and distribution
   lines and 351 substations located adjacent to the communities served.

            WP&L's electric sales are seasonal to some extent with the
   yearly peak normally occurring in July or August.  WP&L also experiences a
   smaller winter peak in December or January.


   Fuel

            In 1993, approximately 80 percent of WP&L's net kilowatthour
   generation of electricity was fueled by coal and 17 percent by nuclear
   fuel (provided by WP&L's 41 percent ownership interest in Kewaunee).  The
   remaining electricity generated was produced by hydroelectric, oil-fired
   and natural gas generation.

   Coal

            WP&L anticipates that its average fuel costs will increase in
   the future, due to cost escalation provisions in existing coal and
   transportation contracts and increases in the costs of new coal contracts
   due to emission requirements under federal and state laws.

            The estimated coal requirements of WP&L's generating units
   (including jointly-owned facilities) for the years 1994 through 2013 total
   about 166 million tons.  Present coal supply contracts and transportation
   contracts (excluding extension options) cover approximately 25 percent and
   24 percent, respectively, of this estimated requirement.  WP&L will seek
   renewals of existing contracts or additional sources of supply and
   negotiate new or additional transportation contracts to satisfy the
   requirements of approved environmental regulations.

   Nuclear

            Kewaunee is jointly owned by WP&L (41%), Wisconsin Public
   Service Corporation (41.2%) and Madison Gas & Electric Company (17.8%). 
   Wisconsin Public Service Corporation is the operating partner.  The plant
   began commercial operation in 1974.

            The supply of fuel for Kewaunee involves the mining and milling
   of uranium ore to uranium concentrates, the conversion of uranium
   concentrates to uranium hexafluoride, enrichment of the uranium
   hexafluoride and fabrication of the enriched uranium into usable fuel
   assemblies.  The following narrative discusses the nuclear fuel supplies
   for Kewaunee which requires approximately 250,000 pounds of uranium
   concentrates per year.  Additionally, WP&L and the other Kewaunee
   co-owners formed a limited partnership of subsidiaries in the mid-1970's
   to secure uranium reserves and maintain a long-term uranium concentrates
   supply capability.

             (a)  Requirements for uranium are met through spot market
                  purchases of uranium.  In general a four-year supply of
                  uranium is maintained.

             (b)  Uranium hexafluoride, from inventory and from spot market
                  purchases, was used to satisfy converted material
                  requirements in 1993.  Such conversion services will be
                  purchased on the spot market in the future.

             (c)  In 1993, enriched uranium was procured from COGEMA, Inc.
                  pursuant to a contract last amended in 1991.  The
                  partnership is obligated to take delivery of additional
                  enriched uranium contracted from COGEMA in 1993 and 1994. 
                  The partnership also purchased enriched uranium on the
                  spot market in 1993.  Enrichment services were purchased
                  from the DOE under the terms of the utility services
                  contract.  This contract is in effect for the life of
                  Kewaunee.  The partnership is committed to take 70 percent
                  of its annual requirements in 1994 and 1995, and in
                  alternate years thereafter from the DOE.

             (d)  Fuel fabrication requirements through 1995 are covered by
                  contract.  This contract contains an option to allow the
                  partnership to extend the contract through 1998.

             (e)  Beyond the stated periods for Kewaunee, additional
                  contracts for uranium concentrates, conversion to uranium
                  hexafluoride, fabrication and spent fuel storage will have
                  to be procured.  The prices for the foregoing are expected
                  to increase.

            The National Energy Policy Act of 1992 provides that both the
   Federal government and the nuclear utilities fund the decontamination and
   decommissioning of the three federal gaseous diffusion plants in the
   United States.  This will require the owners of Kewaunee to pay
   approximately $15 million, in current dollars over a period of 15 years. 
   WP&L's share amounts to an annual payment of approximately $410,000.

            The steam generator tubes at Kewaunee are susceptible to
   corrosion characteristics seen throughout the nuclear industry.  Annual
   inspections are performed to identify degraded tubes.  Degraded tubes are
   either repaired by sleeving or are plugged with approximately 15 percent
   heat transfer margin, meaning that full power should be sustainable with
   the equivalent of 15 percent of the steam generator tubes plugged. 
   Currently, the equivalent of 10 percent of the tubes in the steam
   generators are plugged.  WP&L and the other joint owners continue to
   evaluate  appropriate strategies, including replacement, as well as
   continued operation of the steam generators without replacement.  WP&L and
   the joint owners intend to operate Kewaunee until at least 2013, the
   expiration of the present operating license.  WP&L and the joint owners
   are also evaluating initiatives to improve the performance of Kewaunee. 
   These initiatives include funding of the development of welded repair
   technology for steam generator tubes and numerous cost reduction measures
   such as the conversion from a 12-month to an 18-month fuel cycle.  If the
   steam generators are not replaced, and excluding the possible affect of
   the aforementioned repair strategies, a gradual power reduction of
   approximately 1 percent per year may begin as soon as 1995.

            Physical decommissioning is expected to occur during the period
   2014 to 2021 with additional expenditures being incurred during the period
   2022 to 2050 related to the storage of spent nuclear fuel at the site. 
   WP&L's share of the decommissioning costs of this plant is estimated to be
   $149 million (in 1993 dollars) based on a site specific study, performed
   in 1992, using immediate dismantlement as the method of decommissioning. 
   Wisconsin utilities operating nuclear generating plants are required by
   the PSCW to establish external trust funds to provide for the
   decommissioning of such plants.  The market value of the investments in
   the funds established by WP&L at December 31, 1993 totaled $45.1 million.

            Pursuant to the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982, the DOE has
   entered into a contract with WP&L to accept, transport and dispose of
   spent nuclear fuel beginning not later than January 31, 1998.  It is
   likely that the DOE will delay the acceptance of spent nuclear fuel beyond
   1998.  A fee to offset the costs of the DOE's disposal for all spent fuel
   used since April 7, 1983 has been assessed by the DOE at one mill per net
   kilowatthour of electricity generated and sold by the Kewaunee nuclear
   power plant.  An additional one-time fee was paid for the disposal of
   spent nuclear fuel used to generate electricity prior to April 7, 1983.

            Spent fuel is currently stored at Kewaunee.  The existing
   capacity of the spent fuel storage facility will enable storage of the
   projected quantities of spent fuel through April 2001.  WP&L is currently
   evaluating options for the storage of additional quantities beyond 2001. 
   Several technologies are available.  It is expected that the larger
   capacity requirements for spent nuclear fuel storage will require a
   capital investment in the late 2000's.

            The Low-Level Radioactive Waste Policy Act of 1980 as amended in
   1985 provides that states may enter into compacts to provide for regional
   low-level waste disposal facilities.  The amended Act provides that after
   January 1, 1993, compact members may restrict the use of regional disposal
   facilities to waste generated within the region.  Wisconsin is a member of
   the Midwest Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Compact which includes
   six Midwestern states and was ratified by Congress.  A Midwest disposal
   facility is not expected to be operational until the late 1990's. 
   Presently, the state of Ohio has been selected as the host state for the
   Midwest Compact and is proceeding with the preliminary phases of site
   selection.  In the meantime, WP&L has access to an existing low level
   waste storage space to temporarily store low level waste generated.

   Recovery of Electric Fuel Costs

            WP&L does not automatically pass changes in electric fuel cost
   through to its Wisconsin retail electric customers.  Instead, rates are
   based on estimated per unit fuel costs established during rate proceedings
   and are not subject to change by fuel cost fluctuations unless actual
   costs are outside specified limits.  If actual fuel costs vary from the
   estimated costs by more than +10 percent in a month or by more than
   +3 percent for the test year to date, projected annual variances are then
   estimated.  If the projected annual variance is more than +3 percent,
   rates are subject to hearings and increase or decrease by the PSCW.

            WP&L's wholesale rates and South Beloit's retail rates contain
   fuel adjustment clauses pursuant to which rates are adjusted monthly to
   reflect changes in the costs of fuel.

   Environmental Matters

            WP&L cannot precisely forecast the effect of future
   environmental regulations by federal, state and local authorities upon its
   generating, transmission and other facilities, or its operations, but has
   taken steps to anticipate the future while meeting the requirements of
   approved environmental regulations of today.  The Clean Air Act Amendments
   of 1977 and subsequent amendments to the Clean Air Act, as well as the new
   laws affecting the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes
   along with clean air legislation passed in 1990 by Congress, could affect
   the siting, construction and operating costs of both present and future
   generating units (see "Item 3. Legal Proceedings").

            Under the Federal Clean Water Act, National Pollutant Discharge
   Elimination System permits for generating station discharge into water
   ways are required to be obtained from the DNR, to which the permit program
   has been delegated.  These permits must be periodically renewed.  WP&L has
   obtained such permits for all of its generating stations or has filed
   timely applications for renewals of such permits.

            Air quality regulations promulgated by the DNR in accordance
   with Federal standards impose statewide restrictions on the emission of
   particulates, sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and other air pollutants and
   require permits from the DNR for the operation of emission sources.  WP&L
   currently has the necessary permits to operate its fossil-fueled
   generating facilities.  However, new permits will be required for all
   major facilities in Wisconsin beginning in 1994.  The schedule for
   application of these new permits has been staggered by the DNR to
   accomodate staffing at the DNR.  WP&L's Columbia Generating facility is
   required to submit a permit application on May 1, 1994.  The remaining
   facilities will be addressed later in 1994 and early 1995.

            Pursuant to Wisconsin statutes 144.386(2), WP&L has submitted
   data and plans for 1993 sulfur dioxide emissions compliance.  WP&L will
   make any necessary operational changes in fuel types and power plant
   dispatch to comply with the Plan.

            WP&L's compliance strategy for Wisconsin's 1993 sulfur dioxide
   law and the Federal Clean Air Act Amendments required plant upgrades at
   its generating facilities.  The majority of these projects were completed
   in 1993.  WP&L has installed continuous emissions monitoring systems at
   all of its coal fired boilers (Edgewater and Nelson Dewey facilities) in
   1993 and will complete the installation of these monitors at the remaining
   facilities in 1994.  No additional costs for compliance with these acid
   rain requirements are anticipated at this time.

            WP&L maintains licenses for all its ash disposal facilities and
   regularly reports to the DNR groundwater data and quantities of ash
   landfilled or reused.  The landfills are operated according to a Plan of
   Operation approved by the DNR.

            WP&L's accumulated pollution abatement expenditures through
   December 31, 1993, totaled approximately $122 million.  The major
   expenditures consist of about $60 million for the installation of
   electrostatic precipitators for the purpose of reducing particulate
   emissions from WP&L's coal-fired generating stations and approximately
   $62 million for other pollution abatement equipment at the Columbia, Edge-
   water, Kewaunee, Nelson Dewey, Rock River and Blackhawk plants. 
   Expenditures during 1993 totaled approximately $6 million.  Estimated
   pollution abatement expenditures total $.7 million through 1995.  WP&L's
   estimated pollution abatement expenditures are subject to continuing
   review and are revised from time to time due to escalation of construction
   costs, changes in construction plans and changes in environmental
   regulations.

            See "Electric Operations - Fuel" for information concerning the
   disposal of spent nuclear fuel and high level nuclear waste.

   

   GAS OPERATIONS:

   General

            As of December 31, 1993, the company, through its subsidiary
   WP&L, provided retail natural gas service to approximately
   136,000 customers in 217 cities, villages and towns in 22 counties in
   southern and central Wisconsin and one county in northern Illinois.

            WP&L's gas sales follow a seasonal pattern.  There is an annual
   base load of gas used for heating, cooking, water heating and other
   purposes, with a large peak occurring during the heating season.

            In 1993, WP&L purchased significant volumes of lower cost gas
   directly from producers and marketers and transported those volumes over
   its two major pipeline supplier's systems.  This replaced higher cost gas
   historically purchased directly from the major pipeline systems.  WP&L
   transported gas for 85 end users at year-end 1993.

   Gas Supplies

            In 1992 the FERC issued Order No. 636 and 636-A which requires
   interstate pipelines to restructure their services.  Under these orders,
   existing pipeline sales service would be "unbundled" such that gas
   supplies would be sold separately from interstate transportation services. 
   Both of the interstate pipelines which serve WP&L, ANR Pipeline and
   Northern Natural Pipeline, completed their transition to unbundled
   services as mandated by the FERC in its Order 636 during 1993.  As a
   result, WP&L now contracts with these two parties for various unbundled
   services such as firm and interruptible transportation, firm and
   interruptible storage service and "no-notice" service.  WP&L has benefited
   from enhanced access to competitively priced gas supplies, and from more
   flexible transportation services.  Pipelines are, however, seeking to
   recover from their customers certain transition costs associated with
   restructuring.  Any such recovery is subject to prudence hearings at the
   FERC and state regulatory commissions.

            With the pipelines exiting their historic role of selling gas to
   WP&L, the utility has increased its contracting activity with producers
   and marketers of natural gas correspondingly.  WP&L's portfolio of gas
   supply contracts are designed to meet the needs of gas customers and
   extend from one month to 10 years in term.

            The most significant change in WP&L's mix of gas contracts for
   1993 are: 1) a significant increase in the volume of Canadian gas
   contracted for, and 2) a large increase in firm storage service from the
   pipelines.

            The new Canadian contract commitments represent WP&L's
   successful negotiations to minimize the "transition costs" of moving to
   the unbundled, post-Order 636 environment.  In mid 1993, WP&L was faced
   with the decision of whether to negotiate with the Canadians to reform the
   terms of long-term contracts which were in place with the two pipelines
   and assume the contracts on the renegotiated terms, or pay the pipelines
   to buy out of these contract commitments with the Canadians.  WP&L opted
   for the latter approach at an estimated savings of over $16 million to
   WP&L's customers.  In 1993, WP&L increased its peak-day entitlements on
   ANR pipeline by 16,000 dekatherms per day reflecting the need for
   additional firm capacity in order to meet the load growth of firm
   customers.  

            WP&L maintains gas storage agreements with ANR Pipeline and a
   third party storage service provider.  The storage agreements allow WP&L
   to purchase a portion of its gas supply between April and October, when
   natural gas costs usually are lower.  The less expensive gas is stored in
   the storage fields and is withdrawn between November and March when gas
   costs typically are higher.  The agreements have terms extending through
   March 31, 1995 and March 31, 1997.

            WP&L's current portfolio of contracts is as follows:

   

            The future cost of natural gas is expected to be market
   sensitive.  WP&L's rate schedules applicable to all retail gas customers
   provide for adjustments of its rates, upon notice by WP&L to the PSCW, to
   reflect all increases or decreases in the cost of gas purchased for
   resale.  Increases or decreases in such costs are reflected automatically
   by adjustments to customers' bills commencing with meters read following
   the effective date of any changes in such costs.

            One of the biggest changes which WP&L faces in the post-Order
   636 environment is dealing with the heightened emphasis placed upon daily
   balancing of the economic utilization of WP&L's two pipelines.

            As the natural gas market continues to evolve, WP&L continuously
   evaluates products and services provided by pipelines and gas suppliers to
   meet the changing needs of its firm and interruptible gas customers.

   Environmental Matters

   Manufactured Gas Plant Sites.  Historically, WP&L has owned 11 properties
   that have been associated with the production of manufactured gas. 
   Currently, WP&L owns five of these sites, three are owned by
   municipalities, and the remaining three are owned by private companies. 
   In 1989, WP&L initiated investigation of these manufactured gas plant
   sites.  The Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources ("DNR") has been
   involved in reviewing preliminary investigation plans and has received
   reports regarding these investigations.  Based on the results of WP&L's
   preliminary investigations, WP&L recorded an estimated liability and
   corresponding deferred charge of approximately $15 million as of December
   31, 1991.

            In 1992, and into the beginning of 1993, WP&L continued its
   investigations and studies.  WP&L confirmed that there was no
   contamination at two of the sites and received a close out letter from the
   DNR related to one of those sites and requested a close out letter for the
   other site.  Additionally, the investigation of historical records at a
   third site indicated a minimal likelihood of any significant environmental
   impacts.  In February 1993, WP&L completed more current cost estimates for
   the environmental remediation of the eight remaining sites.  The results
   of this more current analysis indicated that during the next 35 years,
   WP&L will expend approximately $81 million for feasibility studies, data
   collection, soil remediation activities, groundwater research and
   groundwater remediation activities, including construction of slurry
   containment walls and the installation of groundwater pump and treatment
   facilities.  This estimate was based on various assumptions, and is
   subject to continuous review and revision by management.

            Based on the cost estimate set forth above, which assumes a 4
   percent average inflation over the 35 year period, WP&L will spend
   approximately $4.2 million, $1.5 million, $2.1 million, $4.4 million and
   $4.2 million in 1994 through 1998, respectively.  The cost estimate also
   contemplates that primarily groundwater pump and treatment activities will
   take place after 1998 through and including 2027.  During this time, WP&L
   estimates that it will incur average annual costs of $2.0 million to
   complete the planned groundwater remediation activities.

            With respect to rate recovery of these costs, the PSCW has
   approved a five year amortization of the unamortized balance of incurred
   environmental costs deferred to date.

            Based on the present regulatory record at the PSCW, management
   believes that future costs of remediating these manufactured gas plant
   sites will be recovered in rates.

   

   
                                       HDC

          Incorporated in 1988, HDC is the parent company of all nonutility
   companies within the holding company system.  HDC and its principal
   subsidiaries are engaged in business development in three major areas: (1)
   environmental engineering and consulting through the Environmental Holding
   Company ("EHC") which is the parent company of RMT, Inc. ("RMT"), Jones
   and Neuse, Inc. ("J & N"), Hydroscience, Inc.  ("Hydroscience") and Four
   Nines, Inc. ("Four Nines"), (2) affordable housing and historic
   rehabilitation properties through Heartland Properties, Inc. ("HPI"), and
   (3) energy related products and services which includes, in addition to
   Enserv, Inc., the recent acquisition of A&C Enercom, EcoGroup, and Entec
   Consulting, Inc.

          At year-end 1993, HDC employed 1,391 persons, of whom 830 were
   considered environmental engineering and consulting employees.

   ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING AND CONSULTING:

          RMT was acquired by WP&L on July 30, 1983 and became a wholly
   owned subsidiary of HDC in March 1988.  In 1992, HDC transferred to EHC
   its ownership of RMT.  RMT is a Madison, Wisconsin-based environmental and
   engineering consulting company that serves clients nationwide in a variety
   of industrial segment markets.  The most significant of these are
   foundries, chemical companies, pulp and paper processors and other
   manufacturers.  RMT specializes in solid and hazardous waste management,
   ground water quality protection, industrial design and hygiene
   engineering, laboratory services, and air and water pollution control. 
   RMT owns and operates chemical and soil-testing laboratories in Madison,
   Wisconsin and leases biological-testing laboratories in Greenville, South
   Carolina.  The company believes that RMT will be favorably impacted by the
   enforcement of current environmental regulations and programs, and
   legislation and regulations being developed or implemented to address
   ground-water protection, acid rain, and air and water toxics legislation
   and regulations.

          During 1993, HDC acquired three environmental consulting and
   engineering service companies J & N, Hydroscience and Four Nines which are
   being treated as operating subsidiaries of RMT.

          J & N is operating out of Austin, Texas as RMT's Gulf Coast
   Region.  J & N also has four additional Texas offices, a Louisiana office
   and a Mexican subsidiary, ABC Estudios y Projectos.  It provides full
   capabilities in air quality, water quality, hazardous and solid waste
   engineering, and remedial projects.

          Hydroscience is a South Carolina based consulting engineering firm
   specializing in wastewater treatment and toxicity assessments to
   industrial and municipal entities.

          Four Nines is a Philadelphia based company specializing in air
   pollution control engineering.

     See  "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data", Notes to
   Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 12, for financial information
   related to business segments. 

   OTHER NONREGULATED
     
          Formed by HDC on June 24, 1988, HPI is responsible for the
   development and management of the company's real estate and housing
   investments.  HPI's primary focus has been the development, construction
   and management of affordable housing and historic rehabilitation
   properties in selected Wisconsin communities.  As of December 31, 1993,
   HPI's level of investment in housing was approximately $91 million,
   providing nearly 2,175 units to a diverse group of residents.  As in prior
   years, long-term financing on many new investments has been structured
   with the cooperation of municipal housing and community development
   authorities.

          In 1993, HPI enhanced its operations with the organization of two
   new subsidiaries: (1) Toolkit Property Management Systems, Inc.
   ("Toolkit") and Heartland Retirement Services, Inc. ("HRS").  Toolkit
   provides property management services for many of HPI's housing
   investments, aiming to attract and maintain good residents.  HRS provides
   a comprehensive range of housing related products for the fastest growing
   segment of the American population, older adults.

          To facilitate HPI's development and financing efforts, HDC
   incorporated Capital Square Financial Corporation ("Capital Square") in
   1992 to provide mortgage banking services to the affordable housing
   market.  Capital Square has become a Federal National Mortgage Association
   ("FNMA") single and multi-family seller-servicer.  This designation
   enables Capital Square to underwrite first mortgages on affordable housing
   investments to be packaged by FNMA for resale to the secondary markets as
   mortgaged backed securities.

          ENSERV has historically focused its efforts on the
   commercialization of a coal-benefication process called "K-Fuel". 
   "K-Fuel" is a registered trademark for a low-sulfur, high-energy content
   processed coal.  ENSERV is continuing to pursue commercialization of the
   "K-Fuel" process, but there is no assurance that this commercialization
   can be successfully completed.

          HDC acquired A&C Enercom ("A&C") in February 1993.  A&C is based
   out of Atlanta, Georgia, and provides marketing and demand side management
   services primarily to public electric and gas utility companies.  They
   have 13 offices spread throughout the United States.

          During 1993, HDC also acquired Entec Consulting, Inc. ("Entec"), a
   Madison, Wisconsin based firm, to act as a subsidiary of A&C.  Entec
   provides full-service consulting to the utility industry for power
   generation computer software programs.

          A&C acquired EcoGroup, a Phoenix, Arizona based company during
   1993.  EcoGroup provides energy and environmental programs primarily for
   the electric and gas utility industry.

          All references to the company or WPL Holdings, Inc. herein include
   the company and its subsidiaries, except where the context otherwise
   indicates.

   ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

   WP&L

          The following table gives information with respect to electric
   generating facilities of WP&L (including WP&L's portion of those
   facilities jointly owned).

   

            The maximum net hourly peak load on WP&L's electric system was
   1,971,000 kwh's and occurred on August 26, 1993.  At the time of such peak
   load, 2,310,000 kwh's were produced by generating facilities operated by
   WP&L (including other company shared jointly owned facilities) and WP&L
   delivered 812,000 kwh's of power and received 473,000 kwh's of power from
   external sources.  During the year ended December 31, 1993, about
   86.4 percent of WP&L's total kilowatthour requirements was generated by
   company-owned and jointly-owned facilities and the remaining 13.6 percent
   was purchased.  Substantially all of WP&L's facilities are subject to the
   lien of its first mortgage bond indenture.

   HDC:

            The following table gives information with respect to rental
   properties associated with HDC's affordable housing and historic
   rehabilitation project developments (through its subsidiary, HPI) as of
   December 31, 1993.

   

   Occupancy rates in the 66 properties/investments owned by HPI averaged 92
   percent during 1993.  This occupancy percentage excludes properties in the
   first six months of initial occupancy.  Substantially all of these
   properties are pledged as security for HDC's mortgage notes and bonds
   payable.  See page 3 of "Item 1. Business-HDC", for a discussion of
   additional properties owned by HDC's subsidiaries.

   ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

            There are no material pending legal proceedings, other than
   ordinary routine litigation incidental to the business, to which the
   company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or to which any of their
   property is subject.

                              ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

            The information required by Item 3 is included in this Form 10-K
   as Item 8 - Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 10c,
   incorporated herein by reference.

                                  RATE MATTERS

            The information required by Item 3 is included in Item 7 of this
   Form 10-K within the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
   Condition and Results of Operations narrative under the caption "Rates and
   Regulatory Matters."

   

   ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

            None.

   EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

            Erroll B. Davis, Jr, 49, was elected President on January 17,
   1990 and Chief Executive Officer, effective July 1, 1990.  He has served
   as President and Chief Executive Officer of WP&L since August 1, 1988. 
   Prior positions held with WP&L include, Executive Vice President, May
   1984, Vice President - Finance and Public Affairs, November 1982 and Vice
   President - Finance, August 1978.  Mr. Davis was elected President of WPL
   Holdings, Inc. on January 17, 1990.  He has served as a director of WPL
   Holdings, Inc. since March 1988.

            Daniel A. Doyle, 35, was appointed controller and treasurer of
   WP&L effective October 3, 1993.  He previously served as controller of
   WP&L since July 1992.  Prior to joining the company, he was Controller of
   Central Vermont Public Service Corporation since December 1988.  During
   the period 1981 to 1988, he was employed by Arthur Andersen & Co. as an
   Audit Staff Assistant, Audit Senior and Audit Manager with primary
   responsibilities of auditing and providing financial consulting services
   to large publicly held corporations.  Mr. Doyle functions as the principal
   accounting officer of the company.

            Edward M. Gleason, 53, was elected Vice President, Treasurer and
   Corporate Secretary effective October 3, 1993.  He previously served as
   Vice President-Finance and Treasurer of WP&L since May 1986, Controller
   and Treasurer of WP&L since October 1985 and Treasurer of WP&L since May
   1983.  Mr. Gleason functions as the principal financial officer of the
   company.

            Steve F. Price, 41, was appointed Assistant Corporate Secretary
   and Assistant Treasurer on April 15, 1992.  He had been Cash Management
   Supervisor since December 1987.  He was also appointed Assistant Corporate
   Secretary of WP&L on April 15, 1992.

   NOTE:    All ages are as of December 31, 1993.  None of the executive
            officers listed above is related to any director of the Board 
            or nominee for director of the company.

            Executive officers of the company have no definite terms of
            office and serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors.

                                     PART II

   ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
   MATTERS

            At December 31, 1993, there were approximately 38,626 holders of
   record of the company's Common Stock including underlying holders in the
   company's Employee Stock Ownership Plan and the company's Dividend
   Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan.

            Cash dividends paid per share of common stock during 1993 and
   1992 were 47.5 cents and 46.5 cents, respectively, for each quarter, for a
   total of $1.90 and $1.86 per share, respectively for each year.


   ITEMS 6 and 7.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA AND MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION 
                   AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

                                  WPL HOLDINGS, INC.

           Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
                              and Results of Operations

   


   1993 COMPARED WITH 1992

   OVERVIEW

      Earnings per share of WPL Holdings, Inc. (the "company") common stock
   increased to $2.11 in 1993 compared with $2.10 in 1992.  The increase in
   earnings primarily reflects an increase in earnings from the company's
   utility subsidiary, Wisconsin Power and Light Company ("WP&L").  The
   principle factors leading to increased earnings include warmer summer
   weather and lower electric fuel costs per kilowatthour ("kWh") which
   yielded higher electric gross margins for WP&L.  These increases were
   somewhat offset by increased depreciation expense resulting from
   additional investment in utility plant and property additions, a change in
   the mix of gas sales from higher margin sales to lower margin sales, the
   increase in the Federal corporate tax rate from 34% to 35% and a one-time
   4-cent-per-share charge associated with a voluntary separation program for
   the executive management group at the utility.

     The company's nonregulated subsidiary, Heartland Development Corporation
   ("HDC"), contributed to earnings through its principal businesses: (1)
   environmental engineering and consulting, (2) affordable housing and (3)
   energy products and services.

   Electric Operations

   


        WP&L's electric margin in dollars increased during 1993 compared with
   1992 due to increased demand for electricity brought on by warmer summer
   weather.  Residential customers, being the most weather sensitive,
   experienced the most significant increases.  Wisconsin's strong economy
   kept the Commercial and Industrial classes growing steadily.  These
   increases were coupled with declining electric production fuel costs per
   kWh.  The decrease in electric production fuels is due to WP&L's
   aggressive pursuit of additional spot coal purchase opportunities as its
   longer term contracts begin to expire.  Additionally, a highly competitive
   rail transportation environment has significantly reduced the cost of
   transporting the coal.  Also, lower cost purchased power became available
   due to excess capacity in the bulk power market.

   Gas Operations

   

             WP&L's gas revenues for 1992 were affected by the recognition
   of a $4.9 million, before-tax refund to its natural gas customers
   resulting from an adjustment in the calculation of the purchased gas
   adjustment clause.  Without the impact of this revenue adjustment,
   comparative gas margins would have  declined for 1993 compared with 1992.

             The overall increases in gas revenues and purchased gas costs
   between years resulted primarily from increased volumes procured on behalf
   of transportation customers.  This had the impact of decreasing margins as
   a percentage of total revenues.  A change in the mix of gas sales from
   higher margin residential sales to lower margin sales also moved margins
   downward. Offsetting this decline, Wisconsin's strong economy enabled
   growth in the Commercial and Industrial classes, and there was also some
   overall increase in the demand for natural gas due to colder weather.
   Fees, Rents and Other Operating Revenues ("Other Revenues") and Other
   Operation Expense

             Other revenues increased between years as a result of RMT,
   Inc.'s ("RMT") and HPI's growth in their respective businesses and the
   result of acquisitions in the environmental and energy businesses.

             Other operation expense also increased as a result of the above
   factors.  An additional increase resulted from higher WP&L employee
   benefit expense (See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 8). 
   These increases were offset somewhat by decreases in WP&L's conservation
   program expenditures and decreases in fees associated with the sale of
   WP&L's accounts receivable due to a decline in interest rates. 
   Additionally, WP&L's cost management efforts have helped control annual
   inflationary pressures on general and administrative costs.

   Maintenance and Depreciation and Amortization

   Maintenance expense increased for 1993 compared with 1992, primarily due
   to service restoration expenses related to a severe storm in the summer of
   1993.  Depreciation and amortization expense increased, principally
   reflecting increased property additions and the commencement of deferred
   charge amortizations approved in WP&L's last two rate orders received in
   December 1992 and October 1993.  The most significant amortizations
   include the amortization related to an acquisition adjustment which
   resulted from the purchase of transmission facilities and the amortization
   of costs incurred related to the remediation of former manufactured gas
   plant sites (See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 10).
    
   Allowance for Funds Used During Construction ("AFUDC")

   Total AFUDC increased in 1993 compared with 1992, reflecting the greater
   amounts of construction work in progress including the costs associated
   with WP&L's construction of two 86-megawatt combustion-turbine generators.

   Interest Expense

   Interest expense on debt increased between years, primarily due to
   increased capital expenditures related to HPI's investments in affordable
   housing.


   1992 COMPARED WITH 1991

   OVERVIEW

   Earnings per share of the company's common stock decreased 13 percent to
   $2.11 in 1992 compared with $2.43 in 1991.  A combination of an electric
   rate decrease in March 1992 and significantly cooler summer weather led to
   lower electric revenues, gross margins and earnings at WP&L.  WP&L's
   earnings were also affected by the recognition of a $4.9 million, before-
   tax refund to natural gas customers noted previously.  HDC's contribution
   to earnings was slightly lower in 1992 compared with 1991, primarily due
   to the recognition in 1991 of a $2.8 million after-tax gain on the sale of
   a telecommunications investment.  Exclusive of the sale, HDC's
   profitability increased in 1992, due to the success of its investments in
   affordable housing and the continued growth in the profitability of its
   environmental consulting business.   

   Electric Operations

   


         WP&L's electric margin decreased during 1992 compared with 1991 due
   to decreased demand for electricity brought on by cooler summer weather. 
   Residential customers, being the most weather sensitive, experienced the
   most significant decreases.  However, improved economic conditions in 1992
   kept the Industrial customer class growing steadily.  Sales to commercial
   customers remained flat despite the negative weather impact due to
   increased customer growth in this sector and the improving economy.  As a
   result of significantly lower weather-related peak demands, sales and
   revenues to other Class A utilities decreased.  Electric production fuels
   expense decreased in response to reduced kWh sales, lower fuel costs and a
   greater reliance on purchased power.  Purchased power expense increased in
   1992 due to the greater availability of purchased power at competitive
   prices.

   Gas Operations

   

             After adjusting 1992 gas revenues for the customer refund noted
   previously, both gas revenues and gas margins increased during 1992
   compared with 1991.  Overall increases in gas revenues between years
   resulted primarily from the recovery of increased purchased gas costs
   through the purchased gas adjustment clause.  Gas margins benefited from
   an increase in gas customers. The impacts of weather were comparable
   between years. 

   Fees, Rents and Other Operating Revenues ("Other Revenues") and Other
   Operation Expense

   Other revenues increased between years as a result of RMT's and HPI's
   growth in their respective businesses.

             Other operation expense also increased as a result of the above
   factor.  These increases were offset somewhat by reduced costs at WP&L. 
   Contributing to the decrease in costs at WP&L was a decrease in WP&L's
   conservation program expenditures, a decrease in fees associated with the
   sale of WP&L's accounts receivable due to a decline in interest rates, and
   reduced employee benefit expenses.  Additionally, WP&L's cost management
   efforts have helped control annual inflationary pressures on general and
   administrative costs.

   Maintenance and Depreciation and Amortization Expense

   Maintenance expense increased for 1992 compared with 1991, primarily due
   to an increased tree trimming program, increased costs associated with
   scheduled overhauls at generating units and major service restoration
   expenses related to three tornados which caused extensive damage to WP&L's
   service territory during the summer of 1992.  Depreciation expense
   increased, principally reflecting increased property additions.
    
   Allowance for Funds Used During Construction ("AFUDC") and Other, net
   Total AFUDC increased in 1992 compared with 1991, reflecting the greater
   amounts of construction work in progress which includes the costs
   associated with WP&L's construction of two 86-megawatt combustion-turbine
   generators.  Other, net decreased between years primarily due to a $2.8
   million after-tax gain on the sale of certain nonutility investments that
   was recorded in 1991.

   Interest Expense

   Interest expense on debt increased between years, primarily due to the
   financing of increased capital expenditures related to HPI's investments
   in affordable housing and to increased debt outstanding at WP&L to fund
   construction activity.  This increase was somewhat offset by WP&L's
   refinancing activities during 1992.  To take advantage of recent low
   interest rates, WP&L issued $279 million principal amount of first
   mortgage bonds, of which $235 million was used to refinance the aggregate
   principal amount of existing series.  The bonds, which had coupon payments
   ranging from 8 to 10 percent, were replaced with issues having coupons of
   6.125 percent to 8.6 percent.

   Income Taxes

   Income taxes decreased between years, primarily due to lower taxable
   income and an increase in tax credits associated with affordable housing
   investments in 1992 compared with 1991.

   LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

   Rates and Regulatory Matters

   On September 30, 1993, WP&L received final decisions from the PSCW on its
   retail rate application filed in early 1993.  The final order authorized
   an annual retail electric rate increase of $15.6 million, or 3.8 percent;
   a natural gas rate increase of $1.8 million, or 1.4 percent; and a nominal
   water rate increase.  The new rates became effective October 1, 1993 and
   will remain effective until January 1, 1995.  The regulatory return on
   common equity for WP&L was reduced from 12.4 percent to 11.6 percent.  The
   allowed rates of return authorized by WP&L's regulators have decreased due
   to declines in debt capital costs and equity investor rate of return
   expectations.

             On August 6, 1993 the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
   ("FERC") approved WP&L's request for a $2.1 million, or 2.9 percent
   increase in wholesale rates.  The rates became effective October 1, 1993.

   Electric and Gas Sales Outlook

   To deal with competitive pressures arising from regulatory changes, WP&L
   is forecasting to hold retail rates flat through 1996.  This objective
   arises from the competitive pressures forced by changes in regulation. 
   The National Energy Policy Act contains a provision calling for "open
   transmission access".  WP&L anticipates that retail wheeling will become a
   reality within a few years.  In order to meet these new competitive
   challenges and maintain a low cost pricing advantage, WP&L's objective is
   to manage costs to maintain profitability while limiting any rate changes
   until 1997.  These forecasts are subject to a number of assumptions,
   including the economy and weather.  WP&L anticipates that its customer
   base will remain strong in the electric sectors and that favorable gas
   prices over alternative fuels prices should result in sales growth in gas
   sectors.  Growth in customers' demand for electric service will require
   capacity additions.  Capacity requirements will be met through increased
   generating capacity (two combustion-turbines in mid-1994), continuation of
   existing long-term contracts for purchase of capacity, increased
   efficiency at existing power plants from capital improvements and
   continued emphasis on cost effective demand-side management programs such
   as direct load control rate options including interruptible rates and
   conservation programs.

   Financing and Capital Structure

   The level of short-term borrowings fluctuates based on seasonal corporate
   needs, the timing of long-term financing and capital market conditions. 
   The company's operating subsidiaries generally issue short-term debt to
   provide interim financing of construction and capital expenditures in
   excess of available internally generated funds.  The subsidiaries
   periodically reduce their outstanding short-term debt through the issuance
   of long-term debt and through the company's additional investment in their
   common equity.  To maintain flexibility in its capital structure and to
   take advantage of favorable short-term rates, the company, through WP&L,
   also uses proceeds from the sales of accounts receivable and unbilled
   revenues to finance a portion of its long-term cash needs.  The company
   also anticipates that short-term debt funds will continue to be available
   at reasonable costs due to strong ratings by independent utility analysts
   and rating services.  Commercial paper has been rated A-1+ by Standard &
   Poor's Corp. (S&P) and P-1 by Moody's Investors Service (Moody's).  
   Bank lines of credit of $100 million at December 31, 1993 are available to
   support these borrowings.

             The company's capitalization at December 31, 1993, including the
   current maturities of long-term debt, variable rate demand bonds and
   short-term debt, consisted of 47.9 percent common equity, 4.9 percent
   preferred stock and 47.2 percent long-term debt.  The common equity to
   total capitalization ratio at December 31, 1993 increased to 47.9 percent
   from 44.2 percent at December 31, 1992 due to the issuance of 1.65 million
   shares of Company common stock.  The net proceeds from the public offering
   of $56.7 million were used to repay the short-term debt of its
   subsidiaries and for general corporate purposes, including construction.

             A retail rate order effective October 1, 1993, requires WP&L to
   maintain a utility common equity level of 50.31 percent of total utility
   capitalization during the test year August 1, 1993 to July 31, 1994.  In
   addition, the PSCW ordered that it must approve the payment of dividends
   by WP&L to the company that are in excess of the level forecasted in the
   projected test year ($56.8 million), if such dividends would reduce WP&L's
   average common equity ratio below 50.31 percent.

   Capital Requirements

   The company's largest subsidiary, WP&L, is capital-intensive and requires
   large investments in long-lived assets.  Therefore, the company's most
   significant capital requirements relate to WP&L construction expenditures. 
   Estimated capital requirements of WP&L for the next five years are as
   follows:

   

      Included in the construction expenditure estimates, in addition to the
   recurring additions and improvements to the distribution and transmission
   systems, are the following: expenditures for managing and controlling
   electric line losses and for the electric delivery system which will save
   electric line losses and enhance WP&L's interconnection capability with
   other utilities; expenditures related to environmental compliance issues
   including the installation of additional emissions monitoring equipment
   and coal handling equipment; and expenditures associated with the
   construction of two 86-megawatt combustion-turbine generators expected to
   become operational in 1994 through 1996.

      In addition, the steam generator tubes at the Kewaunee Nuclear Power
   Plant ("Kewaunee") are susceptible to corrosion characteristics seen
   throughout the nuclear industry.  Annual inspections are performed to
   identify degraded tubes.  Degraded tubes are either repaired by sleeving
   or are removed with approximately 15 percent heat transfer margin, meaning
   that full power should be sustainable with the equivalent of 15 percent of
   the steam generator tubes plugged.  Currently, the equivalent of 10
   percent of the tubes in the steam generators are plugged.  WP&L and the
   other joint owners continue to evaluate appropriate strategies, including
   replacement, as well as continued operation of the steam generators
   without replacement.  WP&L and the joint owners intend to operate Kewaunee
   until at least 2013, the expiration of the present operating license. 
   WP&L and the joint owners are also evaluating initiatives to improve the
   performance of Kewaunee.  These initiatives include funding of the
   development of welded repair technology for steam generator tubes and
   numerous cost reduction measures such as the conversion from a 12-month to
   an 18-month fuel cycle.  If the steam generators are not replaced, and
   excluding the possible affect of the aforementioned repair strategies, a
   gradual power reduction of approximately 1 percent per year may begin as
   soon as 1995.

      HDC has expanded its energy related products and services business and
   its environmental services through acquisitions during 1993.  In addition
   to increasing its investment in affordable housing,  HPI continues to
   market its affordable housing expertise by expanding its business to
   provide assistance to other corporate/public investors in their
   development, consultation and financing of affordable housing projects.

   Capital Resources

   One of the company's objectives is to finance construction expenditures
   through internally generated funds supplemented, when required, by outside
   financing.  With this objective in place, the company has financed an
   average of 62 percent of its construction expenditures during the last
   five years from internal sources.  However, during the next five years,
   the company expects this percentage to be reduced primarily due to the
   continuation of major construction expenditures and the maturity of $64
   million of WP&L first mortgage bonds.  External financing sources such as
   the issuance of long-term debt, common stock and short-term borrowings
   will be used by the company to finance the remaining construction
   expenditure requirements for this period.  Current forecasts are that $71
   million of additional equity and $60 million of long-term debt will be
   issued over the next three years. 

      In 1993, the company increased its dividends by 3.4 percent and issued
   451,233 new shares of common stock through its Dividend Reinvestment and
   Stock Purchase Plan, generating proceeds of $15.3 million.  Also in 1993,
   a public offering of 1.65 million newly issued shares of the company's
   common stock raised proceeds of approximately $56.7 million.  The proceeds
   were used by the company to refinance the short-term debt of its
   subsidiaries and for general corporate purposes including construction. 
   Market value per share decreased 3 percent to $32.875 per share at
   December 31, 1993 compared with $33.875 per share at December 31, 1992. 
   Return on equity for 1993 was 11.5 percent and has averaged 13.0 percent
   over the last five years.

   INFLATION

   Under current ratemaking methodologies prescribed by the various
   commissions that regulate WP&L, projected or forecasted operating costs,
   including the impacts of inflation, are incorporated into WP&L revenue
   requirements.  Accordingly, the impacts of inflation on WP&L are currently
   mitigated.  Inflationary impacts on the nonregulated businesses are not
   anticipated to be material to the company.

   FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (the "FASB") ACCOUNTING STANDARDS
   ISSUED BUT NOT YET EFFECTIVE

   In November 1992, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting
   Standards No. 112, "Employers' Accounting for Postemployment Benefits"
   ("SFAS 112").  SFAS 112 requires adoption of the new accounting and
   disclosure rules effective January 1, 1994.  The impact on earnings will
   not be material.

   OTHER EVENTS

   In November 1989, the PSCW concluded that WP&L did not properly administer
   a coal contract, resulting in an assessment to compensate ratepayers for
   excess fuel costs having been incurred.  As a result, WP&L recorded a
   reserve in 1989 which had an after-tax affect of reducing 1989 net income
   by $4.9 million.  The PSCW decision was found to represent unlawful
   retroactive ratemaking by both the Dane County Circuit Court and the
   Wisconsin Court of Appeals.  The case was then appealed to the Wisconsin
   Supreme Court.

      Subsequent to December 31, 1993, the Wisconsin Supreme Court affirmed
   the decisions of the Dane County Circuit Court and Wisconsin Court of
   Appeals.  Given the continued uncertainty related to the ultimate method
   of collection of the assessment from ratepayers to be approved by the
   PSCW, it is management's opinion that the financial impact of the
   Wisconsin Supreme Court's decision on the company cannot currently be
   determined and will require further evaluation.  As a result, WP&L does
   not plan to adjust the reserve.

   ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

   To WPL Holdings, Inc.:

   We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and
   statements of capitalization of WPL HOLDINGS, INC. (a Wisconsin
   corporation) and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1993 and 1992, and the
   related consolidated statements of income, common shareowners' investment
   and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December
   31, 1993.  These financial statements are the responsibility of the
   company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
   these financial statements based on our audits.

      We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
   standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
   obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
   free of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test
   basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
   statements.  An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles
   used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating
   the overall financial statement presentation.  We believe that our audits
   provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

      In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present
   fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of WPL Holdings,
   Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1993 and 1992, and the results of
   their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the
   period ended December 31, 1993, in conformity with generally accepted
   accounting principles.




   Milwaukee, Wisconsin,                           ARTHUR ANDERSEN & CO.
   January 28, 1994.                     

   

   

   The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
   statements.

   

   

   The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
   statements.

   

   

   The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
   statements.

   
    
   

   The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
   statements.

   

   

   The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
   statements.

   

   WPL HOLDINGS, INC.

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

   NOTE 1.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING AND REPORTING POLICIES:

   a. Business and Consolidation:

      WPL Holdings, Inc. (the "company" or "WPLH") is the parent holding
      company of Wisconsin Power and Light Company ("WP&L") and Heartland
      Development Corporation ("HDC").  The consolidated financial statements
      include the company and its consolidated subsidiaries, WP&L and HDC,
      along with their respective subsidiaries.  All significant intercompany
      transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.  Certain amounts
      from prior years have been reclassified to conform with the current
      year presentation.

        WP&L is a public utility predominantly engaged in the transmission
      and distribution of electric energy and the generation and bulk
      purchase of electric energy for sale.  WP&L also transports,
      distributes and sells natural gas purchased from gas suppliers.  Nearly
      all of WP&L's customers are located in south and central Wisconsin. 
      WP&L's principal consolidated subsidiary is South Beloit Water, Gas and
      Electric Company.

        HDC and its principal subsidiaries are engaged in business
      development in three major areas: (1) environmental engineering and
      consulting through the Environmental Holding Company ("EHC") which is
      the parent company of RMT, Inc. ("RMT"), Jones and Neuse, Inc.,
      Hydroscience, Inc. and Four Nines, Inc., (2) affordable housing and
      historic rehabilitation through Heartland Properties, Inc. ("HPI") and
      (3) energy related products and services which includes, in addition to
      Enserv, Inc., the recent acquisition of A&C Enercom, EcoGroup and Entec
      Consulting, Inc..

   b. Regulation:

      WP&L's financial records are maintained in accordance with the uniform
      system of accounts prescribed by its regulators.  The Public Service
      Commission of Wisconsin ("PSCW") and the Illinois Commerce Commission
      have jurisdiction over retail rates, which represent approximately 86
      percent of electric revenues plus all gas revenues.  The Federal Energy
      Regulatory Commission ("FERC") has jurisdiction over wholesale electric
      rates representing the balance of electric revenues.  Statement of
      Financial Accounting Standards No. 71, "Accounting for the Effects of
      Certain Types of Regulation" provides that rate-regulated public
      utilities such as WP&L record certain costs and credits allowed in the
      ratemaking process in different periods than for the unregulated
      entities.  These are deferred as regulatory assets or regulatory
      liabilities and are recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Income
      at the time they are reflected in rates.

   c. Utility Plant and Other Property and Equipment:

      Utility plant and other property and equipment are recorded at original
      cost and cost, respectively.  Utility plant costs include financing
      costs which are capitalized through the PSCW-approved allowance for
      funds used during construction ("AFUDC").  The AFUDC capitalization
      rates approximate WP&L's cost of capital.  These capitalized costs are
      recovered in rates as the cost of the utility plant is depreciated.

        Normal repairs and maintenance and minor items of utility plant and
      other property and equipment are expensed.  Ordinary utility plant
      retirements, including removal costs less salvage value, are charged to
      accumulated depreciation upon removal from utility plant accounts, and
      no gain or loss is recognized.  Upon retirement or sale of other
      property and equipment, the cost and related accumulated depreciation
      are removed from the accounts and any gain or loss is included in other
      income and deductions. 
        
   d. Nuclear Fuel:

      Nuclear fuel is recorded at its original cost and is amortized to
      expense based upon the quantity of heat produced for the generation of
      electricity.  This accumulated amortization assumes spent nuclear fuel
      will have no residual value.  Estimated future disposal costs of such
      fuel are expensed based on kilowatthours ("Kwh") generated.

   e. Revenue:

      WP&L accrues utility revenues for services provided but not yet billed.

   f. Fuel and Purchased Gas:

      An automatic fuel adjustment clause for the FERC wholesale portion of
      WP&L's electric business operates to increase or decrease monthly rates
      based on changes in fuel costs.  The PSCW retail electric rates provide
      a range from which actual fuel costs may vary in relation to costs
      forecasted and used in rates.  If actual fuel costs fall outside this
      range, a hearing may be held to determine if a rate change is
      necessary, and a rate increase or decrease can result.

        WP&L's base gas cost recovery rates permit the recovery of or refund
      to all customers for any increases or decreases in the cost of gas
      purchased from WP&L's suppliers through a monthly purchased gas
      adjustment clause.

   g. Cash and Equivalents:

      The company considers all highly liquid debt instruments purchased with
      a maturity of three months or less to be cash equivalents.  The
      carrying amount approximates fair value because of the short maturity
      of these items.

   h. Income Taxes:

      The company files a consolidated federal income tax return.  Under the
      terms of an agreement between WPLH and its subsidiaries, WP&L and HDC
      calculate their respective federal tax provisions and make payments to
      WPLH as if they were separate taxable entities.  Beginning in 1993, the
      company fully provides deferred income taxes in accordance with
      Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.109, "Accounting for
      Income Taxes" ("SFAS 109"), to reflect tax effects of reporting book
      and tax items in different periods.

   NOTE 2.  DEPRECIATION:

   The company uses the straight-line method of depreciation.  For utility
   plant, straight-line depreciation is computed on the average balance of
   depreciable property at individual straight-line PSCW approved rates as
   follows:

                             Electric     Gas       Water     Common
                             --------     ---       -----     ------
              1993             3.6%       3.7%       2.5%       7.3%
              1992             3.4        3.7        2.6        7.1
              1991             3.4        3.7        2.6        6.9

   Estimated useful lives related to other property and equipment are from
   three to 12 years for equipment and 31.5 to 40 years for buildings.

   NOTE 3.  NUCLEAR OPERATIONS:

   Depreciation expense related to the Kewaunee Nuclear Power Plant includes
   a provision for the decommissioning of the plant which totaled $6.1
   million, $3.9 million and $4.1 million in 1993, 1992 and 1991,
   respectively.  Wisconsin utilities with ownership of nuclear generating
   plants are required by the PSCW to establish external trust funds to
   provide for plant decommissioning.  The market value of the investments in
   the funds established by WP&L at December 31, 1993 and 1992, totaled $45.1
   million and $42.8 million, respectively.  WP&L's share of the
   decommissioning costs is estimated to be $149 million (in 1993 dollars,
   assuming the plant is operating through 2013) based on a 1992 study, using
   the immediate dismantlement method of decommissioning.

            Under the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982, the U.S. Department
   of Energy ("DOE") is responsible for the ultimate storage and disposal of
   spent nuclear fuel removed from nuclear reactors.  Interim storage space
   for spent nuclear fuel is currently provided at the Kewaunee Nuclear Power
   Plant.  Currently there is on-site storage capacity for spent fuel through
   the year 1999.  Nuclear fuel, net, at December 31 1993 and 1992, consists
   of (In Thousands of Dollars):

                                          1993              1992
                                          ----              ----
     Original cost of nuclear fuel      $147,325          $140,652
     Less--Accumulated amortization      129,325           123,729
                                        --------          --------
     Nuclear fuel, net                  $ 18,000          $ 16,923
                                        ========          ========
           
            The Price Anderson Act provides for the payment of funds for
   public liability claims arising from a nuclear incident.  Accordingly, in
   the event of a nuclear incident, WP&L, as a 41 percent owner of the
   Kewaunee Nuclear Power Plant, is subject to an overall assessment of
   approximately $32.5 million per incident for its ownership share of this
   reactor, not to exceed $4.1 million payable in any given year.

            Through its membership in Nuclear Electric Insurance Limited,
   WP&L has obtained property damage and decontamination insurance totaling
   $1.4 billion for loss from damage at the Kewaunee Nuclear Power Plant.  In
   addition, WP&L maintains outage and replacement power insurance coverage
   totalling $99 million in the event an outage exceeds 21 weeks.

   NOTE 4. PROPERTY:
    
   a.  Jointly Owned Utility Plants:

            WP&L participates with other Wisconsin utilities in the
            construction and operation of several jointly owned utility
            generating plants.  The chart below represents WP&L's
            proportionate share of such plants as reflected in the
            Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 1993 and 1992 (In
            Thousands of Dollars):

   

            Each of the respective joint owners finances its portion of
        construction costs.  WP&L's share of operations and maintenance
        expenses is included in the Consolidated Statements of Income.

   b.   Other Property and Equipment:

        As of December 31, 1993 and 1992, other property and equipment, net
        includes $100.9 million and $94.4 million, respectively, consisting
        primarily of rental property and equipment associated with HPI's
        affordable housing and historic rehabilitation project developments.

   c.   Capital Expenditures:

        The company's capital expenditures for 1994 are estimated to total
        $166.7 million.  Substantial commitments have been incurred for such
        expenditures.

   NOTE 5.  NET ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE:

   WP&L has a contract with a financial organization to sell, with limited
   recourse, certain accounts receivable.  These receivables include customer
   receivables resulting from sales to other public utilities as well as from
   billings to the co-owners of the jointly owned electric generating plants
   that WP&L operates.  The contract allows WP&L to sell up to $100 million
   of receivables at any time.  Consideration paid to the financial
   organization under this contract includes, along with various other fees,
   a monthly discount charge on the outstanding balance of receivables sold
   that approximated a 4.14 percent annual rate during 1993.  These costs are
   recovered in retail utility rates as an operating expense.  All billing
   and collection functions remain the responsibility of WP&L.  The contract
   expires August 19, 1995, unless extended by mutual agreement.

            As of December 31, 1993 and 1992, proceeds from the sale of
   accounts receivable totaled $74 million and $69 million, respectively. 
   During 1993, WP&L sold an average of $75.9 million of accounts receivable
   per month, compared with $68.8 million in 1992.

            As a result of its diversified customer base and WP&L's sale of
   receivables, the company does not have any significant concentrations of
   credit risk in the December 31, 1993 net accounts receivable balance.

   NOTE 6.  DEFERRED CHARGES AND OTHER:

   Certain costs are deferred and amortized in accordance with authorized or
   expected rate-making treatment.  As of December 31, 1993 and 1992,
   deferred charges and other include regulatory created assets and other
   noncurrent items representing the following (In Thousands of Dollars):

                                                  1993          1992
                                                  ----          ----
       Unamortized debt redemption expense      $ 13,178      $15,384
       Decontamination and decommissioning
        costs of Federal enrichment
        facilities                                 6,181        6,150
       Prepaid pension costs                      26,128       21,226
       Conservation loans to WP&L customers
        (at cost which approximates market)       12,236       12,257
       Goodwill                                   21,622         -
       Tax related (see Note 7)                   28,608         -   
       Emission allowance credits receivable       5,335        5,335
       Other                                      48,058       27,684
                                                 -------       ------
                                                $161,346      $88,036
                                                ========      =======

   NOTE 7.  INCOME TAXES:

            The following table reconciles the statutory Federal income tax
   rate to the effective income tax rate:
                                                    1993     1992     1991
                                                    ----     ----     ----
     Statutory Federal income tax rate              35.0%    34.0%    34.0%
     State income taxes, net of federal benefit      5.1      7.0      5.0
     Investment tax credits restored                (2.1)    (2.7)    (2.2)
     Amortization of excess deferred taxes          (1.7)    (1.8)    (1.6)
     Affordable housing and historical tax
                credits                             (5.7)    (7.5)    (1.9)
     Other differences, net                         (3.2)     (.6)     (.4)
                                                    ----     ----     ----
     Effective income tax rate                      27.4%    28.4%    32.9%
                                                    ====     ====     ====

            The breakdown of income tax expense as reflected in the
   Consolidated Statements of Income is as follows (In Thousands of Dollars):

                                                1993       1992      1991
                                                ----       ----      ----
     Income taxes:
         Current Federal                      $20,725    $19,703   $26,775
         Current state                          6,500      5,343     5,904
         Deferred                               5,015      8,124     4,571

         Investment tax credit
           restored                            (1,967)    (2,125)   (2,141)
         Affordable housing and historical
           tax credits                         (5,217)    (7,788)   (2,719)
                                              -------    -------   -------
                                              $25,056    $23,257   $32,390
                                              =======    =======   =======

            Items which resulted in deferred income tax expense are as
   follows (In Thousands of Dollars):

                                                        1992      1991
                                                        ----      ----
         Utility plant timing differences              $4,104    $4,317
         Qualified nuclear decommissioning trust
           contribution                                   709       709
         Employee benefits                              2,081     2,105
         Other, net                                     1,230    (2,560)
                                                       ------    ------
                                                       $8,124    $4,571
                                                       ======    ====== 

    The temporary differences that resulted in accumulated deferred income
   tax assets and liabilities as of December 31, 1993 are as follows (In
   Thousands of Dollars):

                                                        Deferred Tax
                                                          (Assets)
                                                         Liabilities
                                                        ------------
        Accelerated depreciation and other
         plant related                                    $171,993
        Excess deferred taxes                               22,744
        Unamortized investment tax credits                 (22,812)
        Allowance for equity funds used during
         construction                                       13,518
        Regulatory liability                                19,179
        Other                                                8,222
                                                          --------
                                                          $212,844
                                                          ========

   Changes in WP&L's deferred income taxes arising from the adoption of SFAS
   109 represent amounts recoverable or refundable through future rates and
   have been recorded as net regulatory assets totalling approximately $29
   million on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.  These net regulatory assets
   are being recovered in rates over the estimated remaining useful lives of
   the assets to which they pertain.

            As part of HPI's investments in affordable housing, HPI is
   eligible to claim affordable housing and historic rehabilitation credits. 
   These tax credits can be recognized to the extent the company has
   consolidated taxes payable against which the qualifying credits can be
   benefitted.

   NOTE 8.  EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS:

   a.  Pension Plans:

         WP&L has noncontributory, defined benefit retirement plans covering
         substantially all employees.  The benefits are based upon years of
         service and levels of compensation.  WP&L's funding policy is to
         contribute at least the statutory minimum to a trust.

            The projected unit credit actuarial cost method was used to
         compute net pension costs and the accumulated and projected benefit
         obligations.  The discount rate used in determining those benefit
         obligations was 7.25 percent for 1993, and 8 percent for 1992 and
         1991.  The long-term rate of return on assets used in determining
         those benefit obligations was 9.75 percent for 1993 and 10 percent
         for 1992 and 1991.

            The following table sets forth the funded status of the WP&L
         plans and amounts recognized in the company's Consolidated Balance
         Sheets at December 31, 1993 and 1992 (In Thousands of Dollars):

                                                      1993        1992
                                                      ----        ----
     Accumulated benefit obligation--
       Vested benefits                             $(135,303)   $(119,883)
       Nonvested benefits                             (2,962)        (869)
                                                   ---------    ---------
                                                   $(138,265)   $(120,752)
                                                   =========    =========
     Projected benefit obligation                  $(164,271)   $(144,760)
     Plan assets at fair value, primarily
       common stocks and fixed income 
       securities                                    183,881      164,771
                                                   ---------    ---------
     Plan assets in excess of projected benefit

       obligation                                     19,610       20,011
     Unrecognized net transition asset               (21,823)     (24,270)
     Unrecognized prior service cost                   7,691        9,510
     Unrecognized net loss                            20,650       15,975
                                                   ---------    ---------
     Prepaid pension costs, included in
       deferred charges and other                  $  26,128    $  21,226
                                                   =========    =========

     The net pension (benefit) recognized in the Consolidated Statements of
     Income for 1993, 1992 and 1991 included the following components (In
     Thousands of Dollars):

                                              1993       1992       1991
                                              ----       ----       ----
     Service cost                          $  4,263   $  3,912    $  3,167
     Interest cost on projected benefit
       obligation                            11,614     10,615       9,469
     Actual return on assets                (24,759)   (12,143)    (30,035)
     Amortization and deferral                8,430     (5,317)     14,603
                                           --------   --------    --------
     Net pension (benefit)                 $   (452)  $ (2,933)   $ (2,796)
                                           ========   ========    ========

   b.    Postretirement Health-care and Life Insurance:

         Effective January 1, 1993, the company prospectively adopted
     Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 106, "Employers'
     Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions"
     ("SFAS 106").  SFAS 106 establishes standards of financial accounting
     and reporting for the company's postretirement health-care and life
     insurance benefits.  SFAS 106 requires the accrual of the expected cost
     of such benefits during the employees' years of service based on
     actuarial methodologies that closely parallel pension accounting
     requirements.  WP&L has elected delayed recognition of the transition
     obligation and is amortizing the discounted present value of the
     transition obligation to expense over 20 years.  For WP&L, the cost of
     providing postretirement benefits, including the transition obligation,
     is being recovered in retail rates and wholesale rates under current
     regulatory practices.

         For 1993, the annual net postretirement benefits costs recognized in
     the Consolidated Statements of Income consist of the following
     components (In Thousands of Dollars):

          Service cost                                   $ 1,463
          Interest cost on projected benefit
           obligation                                      3,151
          Actual return on plan assets                      (696)
          Amortization of transition obligation            1,560
          Amortization and deferral                          (27)
                                                         -------
          Net postretirement benefits cost               $ 5,451
                                                         =======

     The following table sets forth the plans' funded status (In Thousands of
   Dollars):

                                                            ----
       Accumulated postretirement benefit obligation-- 
        Retirees                                         $ (27,358)
        Fully eligible active plan participants             (5,429)
        Other active plan participants                      (9,980)
                                                         ---------
       Accumulated benefit obligation                      (42,767)
       Plan assets at fair value                             7,073
                                                         ---------
       Accumulated benefit obligation
         in excess of plan assets                         $(35,694)
       Unrecognized transition obligation                   29,638
       Unrecognized loss                                     2,025
                                                         ---------
       Accrued postretirement benefits liability          $ (4,031)
                                                         =========

         The postretirement benefits cost components for 1993 were calculated
      assuming health care cost trend rates ranging from 12.5 percent for
      1993 and decreasing to 5 percent by the year 2002.  The health care
      cost trend rate considers estimates of health care inflation, changes
      in utilization or delivery, technological advances, and changes in the
      health status of the plan participants.  Increasing the health care
      cost trend rate by one percentage point in each year would increase the
      accumulated postretirement benefit obligation as of December 31, 1993
      by $2.54 million and the aggregate of the service and interest cost
      components of the net periodic postretirement benefit cost for the year
      by $.4 million.

         The assumed discount rate used in determining the accumulated
      postretirement obligation was 7.25 percent.  The long-term rate of
      return on assets was 9.50 percent.  Plan assets are primarily invested
      in common stock,bonds and fixed income securities.  The company's
      funding policy is to contribute the tax advantaged maximum to a trust.

         The costs for the postretirement health-care and life insurance
      benefits, based on an actuarial determination, were $1,335,000 and
      $1,078,000, respectively, for 1992 and 1991.

   c. Other Postemployment Benefits:

         In November 1992, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued
      Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 112, "Employers'
      Accounting for Postemployment Benefits" ("SFAS 112").  SFAS 112
      establishes standards of financial accounting and reporting for the
      estimated cost of benefits provided by an employer to former or
      inactive employees after employment but before retirement.  The effect
      of adopting SFAS 112, which must be adopted January 1, 1994, will not
      be material.

   NOTE 9. CAPITALIZATION:

   a. Common Shareowners' Investment:

      During 1993, 1992 and 1991, respectively, the company issued 451,233,
      528,142 and 122,110 new shares of common stock through its Dividend
      Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan, generating proceeds of $15.3
      million, $17.5 million and $3.3 million, respectively.

         On April 27, 1993, a public offering of 1.65 million newly issued
      shares of the company's common stock, priced at $35.50 per share,
      raised net proceeds of $56.7 million.  The proceeds were used by the
      company to refinance short-term debt and for general corporate purposes
      including construction.

         In February 1989, the Board of Directors of the company declared a
      dividend distribution of one common stock purchase right ("right") on
      each outstanding share of the company's common stock.  Each right would
      initially entitle shareowners to buy one-half of one share of the
      company's common stock at an exercise price of $60.00 per share,
      subject to adjustment.  The rights are not currently exercisable, but
      would become exercisable if certain events occurred related to a person
      or group acquiring or attempting to acquire 20 percent or more of the
      outstanding shares of common stock.  The rights expire on February 22,
      1999, unless the rights are earlier redeemed or exchanged by the
      company.

         Authorized shares of common stock total 100,000,000 as of December
      31, 1993, and can be categorized as follows:
                                                            No. Of Shares
                                                            -------------
         Issued and outstanding                               30,438,654
         Reserved for issuance for
           Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan         891,874
         Common Stock Rights Agreement                        15,665,264
         Unreserved                                           53,004,208
                                                             -----------
           Total authorized                                  100,000,000
                                                             ===========

              A retail rate order effective October 1, 1993, requires WP&L to
         maintain a utility common equity level of 50.31 percent of total
         utility capitalization during the test year August 1, 1993 to July
         31, 1994.  In addition, the PSCW ordered that it must approve the
         payment of dividends by WP&L to the company that are in excess of
         the level forecasted in the projected test year ($56.8 million), if
         such dividends would reduce WP&L's average common equity ratio below
         50.31 percent.

   b.    Preferred Stock:

         On October 27, 1993, WP&L issued two new series of preferred stock
         through two separate public offerings.  The 6.2% Series is non-
         redeemable for ten years and the 6.5% Series is non-redeemable for
         five years.  The proceeds from the sale were used to retire 150,000
         shares of 7.56% Series and 149,865 shares of 8.48% Series preferred
         stock.

   c.    Long-term Debt:

         During 1992, WP&L issued $279 million of first mortgage bonds, of
         which $235 million was used to refinance the principal of existing
         series in order to take advantage of lower interest rates.  The
         remaining proceeds were used for the payment of short-term debt and
         general corporate purposes.

              Substantially all of WP&L's utility plant is secured by its
         first mortgage bonds.  Current maturities of long-term debt are as
         follows: $.7 million in 1994, $1.6 million in 1995, $3.3 million in
         1996, $56.7 million in 1997 and $11.2 million in 1998.

              The fair value of the company's long-term debt, including
         variable rate demand bonds, is estimated at $518,251,000 and
         $475,909,000 as of December 31, 1993 and 1992, respectively, based
         on the quoted market prices for similar issues or on the current
         rates offered to the company for similar debt.

   NOTE 10. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES:

   a.  Coal Contract Commitments:

         To ensure an adequate supply of coal, WP&L has entered into certain
         long-term coal contracts.  These contracts include a demand or
         take-or-pay clause under which payments are required if contracted
         quantities are not purchased.  Purchase obligations on these coal
         and related rail contracts total approximately $263 million through
         December 31, 2004.  WP&L's management believes it will meet minimum
         coal and rail purchase obligations under the contracts or recover in
         rates any demand or take-or-pay costs if minimum purchase
         obligations are not met.  Minimum purchase obligations on these
         contracts over the next five years are estimated to be $67 million
         in 1994 and $27 million in 1995, 1996, 1997 and 1998, respectively.

   b.  Purchased Power:

         Under firm purchase power contracts, WP&L is obligated to pay $11
         million, $8 million, $5  million, $7  million and $14 million in 1994,
         1995, 1996, 1997 and 1998, respectively.  For 1994, this represents 
         2,515 megawatts of capacity.  Purchase obligations on these purchase 
         power contracts total approximately $169  million through December 31,
         2007.

   c.  Manufactured Gas Plant Sites:

         Historically, WP&L has owned 11 properties that have been associated
         with the production of manufactured gas.  Currently, WP&L owns five
         of these sites, three are owned by municipalities, and the remaining
         three are owned by private companies.  In 1989, WP&L initiated
         investigation of these manufactured gas plant sites.  The Wisconsin
         Department of Natural Resources ("DNR") has been involved in
         reviewing preliminary investigation plans and has received reports
         regarding these investigations.  Based on the results of WP&L's
         preliminary investigations, WP&L recorded an estimated liability and
         corresponding deferred charge of approximately $15 million as of
         December 31, 1991.

              In 1992, and into the beginning of 1993, WP&L continued its
         investigations and studies.  WP&L confirmed that there was no
         contamination at two of the sites and received a close out letter
         from the DNR related to one of those sites and requested a close out
         letter for the other site.  Additionally, the investigation of
         historical records at a third site indicated a minimal likelihood of
         any significant environmental impacts.  In February 1993, WP&L
         completed more current cost estimates for the environmental
         remediation of the eight remaining sites.  The results of this more
         current analysis indicated that during the next 35 years, WP&L will
         expend approximately $81 million for feasibility studies, data
         collection, soil remediation activities, groundwater research and
         groundwater remediation activities, including construction of slurry
         containment walls and the installation of groundwater pump and
         treatment facilities.  This estimate was based on various
         assumptions, and is subject to continuous review and revision by
         management.

              Based on the cost estimate set forth above, which assumes a 4
         percent average inflation over the 35 year period, WP&L will spend
         approximately $4.2 million, $1.5 million, $2.1 million, $4.4 million
         and $4.2 million in 1994 through 1998, respectively.  The cost
         estimate also contemplates that primarily groundwater pump and
         treatment activities will take place after 1998 through and
         including 2027.  During this time, WP&L estimates that it will incur
         average annual costs of $2.0 million to complete the planned
         groundwater remediation activities.

              With respect to rate recovery of these costs, the PSCW has
         approved a five year amortization of the unamortized balance of
         incurred environmental costs deferred to date.

              Based on the present regulatory record at the PSCW, management
         believes that future costs of remediating these manufactured gas
         plant sites will be recovered in rates.

   d.  FERC Order No. 636:

         In 1992 the FERC issued Order No. 636 and 636-A which requires
         interstate pipelines to restructure their services.  Under these
         orders, existing pipeline sales service would be "unbundled" such
         that gas supplies would be sold separately from interstate
         transportation services (pipelines serving WP&L implemented new
         services November 1, 1993).  Pipelines will, however, seek to
         recover from their customers certain transition costs associated
         with restructuring.  Any such recovery would be subject to prudence
         hearings at the FERC and state regulatory commissions.

   NOTE 11. SHORT-TERM DEBT AND LINES OF CREDIT:

   The company and its subsidiaries maintain bank lines of credit, most of
   which are at the bank prime rates, to obtain short-term borrowing
   flexibility, including pledging lines of credit as security for any
   commercial paper outstanding.  Amounts available under these lines of
   credit totaled $100 million, $70 million and $52.5 million as of December
   31, 1993, 1992 and 1991, respectively. Information regarding short-term
   debt and lines of credit is as follows (In Thousands of Dollars):

   


   NOTE 12. SEGMENT INFORMATION:

   The following table sets forth certain information relating to the
   company's consolidated operations (In Thousands of Dollars).

   

   NOTE 13.  ACQUISITIONS:

   On August 31, 1993, the company issued 515,993 shares of company common
   stock in exchange for the outstanding common and preferred stock of Jones
   and Neuse, Inc. ("JN"), a 250-employee environmental consulting and
   engineering service firm based in Austin, Texas.  This transaction was
   accounted for as a pooling of interests and all prior periods have been
   restated accordingly; such restatement was not material.  The company
   intends to position JN as a service region of its own 550-employee
   environmental consulting and engineering company, RMT, a subsidiary of
   HDC.

            In February 1993, HDC acquired A&C Enercom Consultants, Inc.
   ("A&C"), a Georgia corporation, for cash and new shares of the company's
   common stock.  A&C provides demand side management and energy related
   consulting services, primarily to public electric and gas utility
   companies.

   NOTE 14.  CONSOLIDATED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (Unaudited):

   Seasonal factors significantly affect WP&L and, therefore, the data
   presented below should not be expected to be comparable between quarters
   nor necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for an annual
   period.

              The amounts below were not audited by independent public
   accountants, but reflect all adjustments necessary, in the opinion of the
   company, for a fair presentation of the data.

                           Operating   Operating                Earnings
   Quarter Ended           Revenues      Income     Net Income  Per Share
                           --------    ---------    ----------  ---------
                              (In Thousands except for Per Share Data)
   1993:
   March 31 (*)            $209,250     $36,490      $19,766     $.70
   June 30 (*)              173,631      19,872        7,190      .24
   September 30             173,869      29,358       13,258      .44
   December 31              216,307      40,463       22,309      .73  

   1992 (*):
   March 31                $184,346     $36,223      $18,653     $.69
   June 30                  147,146      17,464        7,268      .26
   September 30             156,516      25,624       12,290      .44
   December 31              185,265      38,648       19,796      .71


   (*)  The financial information presented has been restated to reflect the
        pooling of JN (see Note 13).


   ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
              ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

        None.

                                    PART III


   ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

        The information required by Item 10 relating to directors and
   nominees for election as directors at the company's 1994 Annual Meeting of
   Shareowners is incorporated herein by reference to the information under
   the caption "Election of Directors" in the company's Proxy Statement (the
   "1994 Proxy Statement") filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
   The information required by Item 10 relating to executive officers is set
   forth in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  The information
   required by Item 10 relating to delinquent filers is incorporated herein
   by reference to the information under the caption "Compliance with Section
   16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934" in the 1994 Proxy Statement.

   ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

        The information required by Item 11 is incorporated herein by
   reference to the information under the caption "Compensation of Executive
   Officers" in the 1994 Proxy Statement.

   ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
               MANAGEMENT

        The information required by Item 12 is incorporated herein by
   reference to the information under the caption "Ownership of Voting
   Securities" in the 1994 Proxy Statement.


   ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

        The information required by Item 13 is incorporated herein by
   reference to the information under the caption "Election of Directors" in
   the 1994 Proxy Statement.

   
                                     PART IV


   ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS
                ON FORM 8-K

   (a) (1)  Consolidated Financial Statements

            Included in Part II of this report:

                 Report of Independent Public Accountants on Schedules 

                 Consolidated Statements of Income for the Years Ended
                 December 31, 1993, 1992 and 1991

                 Consolidated Balance Sheets, December 31, 1993 and 1992

                 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended
                 December 31, 1993, 1992 and 1991

                 Consolidated Statements of Capitalization, December 31,
                 1993 and 1992

                 Consolidated Statements of Common Shareowners' Investment

                 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

   (a) (2)  Financial Statement Schedules

            For each of the years ended December 31, 1993, 1992 and 1991

            Schedule II.        Amounts Receivable from Related Parties
            Schedule III.       Parent Company Financial Statements
            Schedule V.         Property Plant and Equipment
            Schedule VI.        Accumulated Provision for Depreciation and
                                Accumulated Amortization of Nuclear Fuel
            Schedule VIII.      Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and
                                 Reserves
            Schedule X.         Supplementary Income Statement Information

            All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable
            or not required, or because that required information is shown
            either in the consolidated financial statements or in the notes
            thereto.

   (a)(3)   Exhibits Required by Securities and Exchange Commission
   Regulation S-K


            The following Exhibits are filed herewith or incorporated herein
            by reference.  Documents indicated by an asterisk (*) are
            incorporated herein by reference.
               
            3A*    Restated Articles of Incorporation (Exhibit 4.1 to the
                   company's Form S-3 Registration Statement No. 33-59972)

            3B*    By-Laws of as revised to January 1, 1993

            4A*    Indenture of Mortgage or Deed of Trust dated August 1,
                   1941, between WP&L and First Wisconsin Trust Company and
                   George B. Luhman, as Trustees, filed as Exhibit 7(a) in
                   File No. 2-6409, and the indentures supplemental thereto
                   dated, respectively, January 1, 1948, September 1, 1948,
                   June 1, 1950, April 1, 1951, April 1, 1952, September 1,
                   1953, October 1, 1954, March 1, 1959, May 1, 1962,
                   August 1, 1968, June 1, 1969, October 1, 1970, July 1,
                   1971, April 1, 1974, December 1, 1975, May 1, 1976,
                   May 15, 1978, August 1, 1980, January 15, 1981, August 1,
                   1984, January 15, 1986, June 1, 1986, August 1, 1988,
                   December 1, 1990, September 1, 1991, October 1, 1991,
                   March 1, 1992, May 1, 1992, June 1, 1992 and July 1, 1992
                   (Second Amended Exhibit 7(b) in File No. 2-7361; Amended
                   Exhibit 7(c) in File No. 2-7628; Amended Exhibit 7.02 in
                   File No. 2-8462; Amended Exhibit 7.02 in File No. 2-8882;
                   Second Amendment Exhibit 4.03 in File No. 2-9526; Amended
                   Exhibit 4.03 in File No. 2-10406; Amended Exhibit 2.02 in
                   File No. 2-11130; Amended Exhibit 2.02 in File
                   No. 2-14816; Amended Exhibit 2.02 in File No. 2-20372;
                   Amended Exhibit 2.02 in File No. 2-29738; Amended
                   Exhibit 2.02 in File No. 2-32947; Amended Exhibit 2.02 in
                   File No. 2-38304; Amended Exhibit 2.02 in File
                   No. 2-40802; Amended Exhibit 2.02 in File No. 2-50308;
                   Exhibit 2.01(a) in File No. 2-57775; Amended Exhibit 2.02
                   in File No. 2-56036; Amended Exhibit 2.02 in File
                   No. 2-61439; Exhibit 4.02 in File No. 2-70534; Amended
                   Exhibit 4.03 File No. 2-70534; Exhibit 4.02 in File
                   No. 33-2579; Amended Exhibit 4.03 in File No. 33-2579;
                   Amended Exhibit 4.02 in File No. 33-4961; Exhibit 4B to
                   WP&L's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1988,
                   Exhibit 4.1 to WP&L's Form 8-K dated December 10, 1990,
                   Amended Exhibit 4.26 in File No. 33-45726, Amended
                   Exhibit 4.27 in File No.33-45726, Exhibit 4.1 to WP&L's
                   Form 8-K dated March 9, 1992, Exhibit 4.1 to WP&L's
                   Form 8-K dated May 12, 1992, Exhibit 4.1 to WP&L's
                   Form 8-K dated June 29, 1992 and Exhibit 4.1 to WP&L's
                   Form 8-K dated July 20, 1992)

            10A*#  Executive Tenure Compensation Plan as revised November

            10B*#  Form of Supplemental Retirement Plan, as revised November

            10C*#  Forms of Deferred Compensation Plans, as amended June,
                   1990 (Exhibit 10C to the company's Form 10-K for the year
                   ended December 31, 1990)

            10C.1*#   Officer's Deferred Compensation Plan II, as adopted
                      September 1992

            10C.2*#   Officer's Deferred Compensation Plan III, as adopted
                      January 1993

            10F*#  Pre-Retirement Survivor's Income Supplemental Plan, as
                   revised November 1992

            10H*#  Management Incentive Plan

            10I*#  Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors, as adopted June
                   27, 1990

            12     Computation of ratio of earnings to fixed charges and
                   preferred dividend requirements after taxes

            21     Subsidiaries of the company

            23     Consent of Independent Public Accountants

            99     1994 Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of
                   Shareowners to be held May 18, 1994

            Pursuant to Item 601(b)(4)(iii) of Regulation S-K, the company
            hereby agrees to furnish to the Securities and Exchange
            Commission, upon request, any instrument defining the rights of
            holders of unregistered long-term debt not filed as an exhibit
            to this Form 10-K.  No such instrument authorizes securities in
            excess of 10 percent of the total assets of the company.

            # - A management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

   (b)         Reports on Form 8-K.

               1. WP&L filed a report on Form 8-K dated October 20, 1994,
                  which reported, under "Item 5. Other Events", the agreement
                  to sell: (i) 150,000 shares of its 6.2% Preferred Stock,
                  with a stated value of $100, in a public offering through
                  Goldman, Sachs & Co.; and (ii) 599,460 shares of its 6.5%
                  Preferred Stock, with a stated value of $25 in a public
                  offering through Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated.

   
                                   SIGNATURES

               Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
   Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this
   report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
   authorized on the 23rd day of February 1994.

                                    WPL HOLDINGS, INC.

                                    By: /s/ Erroll B. Davis, Jr.     
                                            Erroll B. Davis, Jr.
                                            President and Chief Executive 
                                            Officer

               Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
   1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf
   of the registrant and in the capacities indicated on the 23rd day of
   February 1994.



   /s/ Erroll B. Davis, Jr.                  President, Chief Executive
   Erroll B. Davis, Jr.                      Officer and Director (principal
                                             executive officer)

   /s/ Edward M. Gleason                     Vice President, Treasurer and
   Edward M. Gleason                         Corporate Secretary (principal
                                             financial officer)

   /s/ Daniel A. Doyle                       Controller and Treasurer -
   Daniel A. Doyle                           Wisconsin Power and Light
                                             Company (principal accounting
                                             officer)

   /s/ L. David Carley      Director         /s/ Milton E. Neshek  Director
   L. David Carley                           Milton E. Neshek


   /s/ Rockne G. Flowers    Director         /s/ Henry C. Prange   Director
   Rockne G. Flowers                         Henry C. Prange 


   /s/ Donald R. Haldeman   Director         /s/ Henry F. Scheig   Director
   Donald R. Haldeman                        Henry F. Scheig


   /s/ Katharine C. Lyall   Director         /s/ Carol T. Toussaint  Director
   Katharine C. Lyall                        Carol T. Toussaint


   /s/ Arnold M. Nemirow    Director
   Arnold M. Nemirow

   

              REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS ON SCHEDULES


   To WPL Holdings, Inc.:


   We have audited in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards,
   the consolidated financial statements included in the 1993 Form 10-K of
   WPL Holdings, Inc. and have issued our report thereon dated January 28,
   1994.  Our audit was made for the purpose of forming an opinion on those
   statements taken as a whole.  Supplemental Schedules II, III, V, VI, VIII
   and X are the responsibility of the company's management and are presented
   for purposes of complying with the Securities and Exchange Commission's
   rules and are not part of the basic consolidated financial statements. 
   These schedules have been subjected to the auditing procedures applied in
   the audit of the basic consolidated financial statements and, in our
   opinion, fairly state in all material respects the financial data required
   to be set forth therein in relation to the basic consolidated financial
   statements taken as a whole.






   Milwaukee, Wisconsin,                               ARTHUR ANDERSEN & CO.
   January 28, 1994.

   

                               INDEX TO SCHEDULES



                               WPL HOLDINGS, INC.
                     INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1993, 1992 AND 1991


   FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES:

     II.       Amounts Receivable from Related Parties
    III.       Parent Company Financial Statements
      V.       Property Plant and Equipment
     VI.       Accumulated Provision for Depreciation and Accumulated
               Amortization of Nuclear Fuel
   VIII.       Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves
      X.       Supplementary Income Statement Information


   NOTE:       All other schedules are omitted because they are not
               applicable or not required, or because that required
               information is shown either in the financial statements or in
               the notes thereto.

   
   

   The loan between HDC and Mr. Ahearn represents income taxes withheld in
   connection with shares vesting as a part of an employment agreement.  The
   loan is to be in effect at market rates and is payable on July 1, 1994.

   

   

        The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

   

   

         The accompanying notes are an integral part of this statement.

   

   

         The accompanying notes are an integral part of this statement.

   
                            SCHEDULE III - CONDENSED
                       PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                               WPL HOLDINGS, INC.
         Supplemental Notes to Parent Company Only Financial Statements



     The following are supplemental notes to the WPL Holdings, Inc. (the
   "Company") Parent Company Financial Statements and should be read in
   conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto
   included in the WPL Holdings, Inc. 1993 Annual Report, which are hereby
   incorporated herein by reference:

   Note A.  The parent company files a consolidated Federal income tax return
            with its subsidiaries.

   Note B.  Net amounts due to (due from) affiliates result from intercompany
            transactions including loans, federal income tax liabilities and
            an administrative allowance.

   Note C.  Information regarding short-term debt is as follows:

                                             1993       1992 
                                              (In Thousands)

   As of end of year:
     Notes payable outstanding..........   $32,958     $19,151
     Interest rates on notes payable....      3.58%       3.62%
   For the year ended:
     Maximum month-end amount of 
     short-term debt..................     $36,000     $22,600
     Average amount of short-term debt..   $25,827     $19,722
     Average interest rate on short-
     term debt.........................       3.37%       3.93%

   Note D.  During 1993, 1992 and 1991, Wisconsin Power and Light Company
            allocated and billed certain administrative and general expenses
            to  using an allocation method approved by the Public Service
            Commission of Wisconsin.  These expenses totalled $777,000,
            $867,000 and $886,000 during 1993, 1992 and 1991, respectively.
   

   

   


   
   

   

   

   
   
  
   
   

   

                                      SCHEDULE X

                          WPL HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                      SUPPLEMENTARY INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION

                                  Year Ended December 31,
                                  1993       1992        1991 
                                      (In Thousands)
      Real estate and
        personal property       $18,523    $18,052     $16,292
      Payroll.............       12,602     10,117       9,041
      Other...............        1,253      1,092       1,201
                                -------    -------     -------
                                $32,378    $29,261     $26,534
                                =======    =======     =======

   The amounts of maintenance and repairs, depreciation and taxes charged to
   other expense accounts are not significant.  The amounts charged to the
   respective accounts for advertising aggregated less than one percent of
   total consolidated revenues, and no royalty expenses were incurred.


                   WPL HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                    Exhibit Index for the Year Ended
                            December 31, 1993


Item          Description

12           Computation of ratio of earnings to fixed charges
             and preferred dividend requirements after taxes

21           Subsidiaries of the Company

23           Consent of Independent Public Accountants

99           1994 Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareowners
             to be held May 18, 1994 (To be filed with the Securities
             and Exchange Commission under Regulation 14A within 120 days
             after the end of the Company's fiscal year)

