10-K


y93542e10vk.htm

AMERADA HESS CORPORATION

AMERADA HESS CORPORATION


UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

Form 10-K

x

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)

OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended

December 31, 2003

or

o

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)

OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from

to

Commission File Number 1-1204

Amerada Hess Corporation

(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its
charter)

DELAWARE

(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or
organization)

13-4921002

(I.R.S. Employer Identification Number)

1185 AVENUE OF THE AMERICAS, NEW YORK, N.Y.

(Address of principal executive
    offices)


(Zip Code)

(Registrant’s telephone number, including
area code, is (212) 997-8500)

Securities registered pursuant to Section
12(b) of the Act:

Securities registered pursuant to Section
12(g) of the Act:

None

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1)
has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90
days.  Yes

ü

No

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of
delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not
contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of
Registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form
10-K or any amendment to this Form
10-K.

o

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is
an accelerated filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Act).  Yes

ü

No

The aggregate market value of voting stock held
by non-affiliates of the Registrant amounted to $3,771,000,000
as of June 30, 2003.

At January 31, 2004, 89,856,630 shares
of Common Stock were outstanding.

Certain items in Parts I and II incorporate
information by reference from the 2003 Annual Report to
Stockholders and Part III is incorporated by reference from
the Proxy Statement for the annual meeting of stockholders to be
held on May 5, 2004.



AMERADA HESS CORPORATION

Form 10-K




PART I

Item 1.

Business

Amerada Hess Corporation (the
“Registrant”) is a Delaware corporation, incorporated
in 1920. The Registrant and its subsidiaries (collectively
referred to as the “Corporation”) explore for,
produce, purchase, transport and sell crude oil and natural gas.
These exploration and production activities take place in the
United States, United Kingdom, Norway, Denmark, Equatorial
Guinea, Algeria, Gabon, Indonesia, Thailand, Azerbaijan,
Malaysia and other countries. The Corporation also manufactures,
purchases, trades and markets refined petroleum and other energy
products. The Corporation owns 50% of a refinery joint venture
in the United States Virgin Islands, and another refining
facility, terminals and retail gasoline stations located on the
East Coast of the United States.

Exploration and Production

At December 31, 2003, the Corporation had
646 million barrels of proved crude oil and natural gas
liquids reserves compared with 782 million barrels at the
end of 2002. Proved natural gas reserves were 2,332 million
Mcf at December 31, 2003 compared with 2,477 million
Mcf at December 31, 2002. These crude oil and natural gas
reserves included the Corporation’s proportionate share of
the reserves of equity investees in prior years. The decrease in
proved reserves resulted from asset sales and production. Proved
reserves at December 31, 2003 include 32% and 43%,
respectively, of crude oil and natural gas held under production
sharing contracts. Of the total proved reserves (on a barrel of
oil equivalent basis), 18% are located in the United States, 42%
are located in the United Kingdom, Norwegian and Danish sectors
of the North Sea and the remainder are located in Algeria,
Azerbaijan, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Indonesia, Thailand and
Malaysia. On a barrel of oil equivalent basis, 32% of the
Corporation’s December 31, 2003 worldwide proved
reserves are undeveloped (33% in 2002).

Worldwide crude oil and natural gas liquids
production amounted to 259,000 barrels per day in 2003
compared with 325,000 barrels per day in 2002. Worldwide
natural gas production was 683,000 Mcf per day in 2003
compared with 754,000 Mcf per day in 2002. The Corporation
presently estimates that its 2004 barrel of oil equivalent
production will be approximately 13% less than 2003. The
Corporation is developing a number of oil and gas fields and
also has an inventory of domestic and foreign drillable
prospects.

United
States

.  Amerada Hess
Corporation operates mainly offshore in the Gulf of Mexico and
onshore in Texas, Louisiana and North Dakota. During 2003, 21%
of the Corporation’s crude oil and natural gas liquids
production and 37% of its natural gas production were from
United States operations.

The table below sets forth the Corporation’s
average daily net production by area in the United States:



*

Reflects natural gas production converted on the
    basis of relative energy content (six Mcf equals one barrel).

The Llano Field (AHC 50%) on Garden Banks Blocks
385 and 386 in the Gulf of Mexico is currently being developed
with initial net production expected in mid-2004 at an average
rate of 12,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Additional appraisal drilling is planned for the Shenzi prospect
(AHC 28%) on Green Canyon Block 654 in the deepwater Gulf of
Mexico. Further appraisal drilling is also planned for the
Tubular Bells discovery (AHC 20%) on Mississippi Canyon Block
725, also in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico.

At December 31, 2003, the Corporation has
interests in approximately 290 exploration blocks in the Gulf of
Mexico of which it operates 202. The Corporation has 910,000 net
undeveloped acres in the Gulf of Mexico.

United
Kingdom.

The
Corporation’s activities in the United Kingdom are
conducted by its wholly-owned subsidiary, Amerada Hess Limited.
During 2003, 37% of the Corporation’s crude oil and natural
gas liquids production and 46% of its natural gas production
were from United Kingdom operations.

The table below sets forth the Corporation’s
average daily net production in the United Kingdom by field and
the Corporation’s interest in each at December 31,
2003:



Development of the Clair Field (AHC 9.29%) is
proceeding and it is expected to begin production in 2005. The
Atlantic (AHC 25%) and Cromarty (AHC 90%) natural gas fields are
also being developed. These fields are expected to have combined
net production of approximately 25,000 barrels of oil
equivalent per day in 2006.

During 2003, Amerada Hess Limited exchanged its
25% shareholding interest in Premier Oil plc, for a 23% interest
in Natuna Sea Block A in Indonesia.

Norway.

The
Corporation’s activities in Norway are conducted through
its wholly-owned Norwegian subsidiary, Amerada Hess Norge A/S.
Norwegian operations accounted for crude oil and natural gas
liquids production of 25,000 barrels per day in both 2003
and 2002. Natural gas production averaged 26,000 Mcf per
day in 2003 and 25,000 Mcf per day in 2002. Substantially
all of the Norwegian production is from the Corporation’s
28.09% interest in the Valhall Field. An enhanced-recovery
waterflood project for the Valhall Field has commenced with
water injection starting in the first quarter of 2004.

Denmark.

Amerada
Hess ApS, the Corporation’s wholly-owned Danish subsidiary,
operates the South Arne Field. Net crude oil production from the
Corporation’s 57.48% interest in the South Arne Field was
24,000 barrels of crude oil per day in 2003 compared to 23,000
barrels of oil per day in 2002. Natural gas production was
29,000 Mcf and 37,000 Mcf of natural gas per day in
2003 and 2002, respectively.

Equatorial
Guinea.

The Corporation has
interests in production sharing contracts covering three
offshore blocks, acquired in August 2001. Net crude oil
production from the Corporation’s 85% interest in the Ceiba
Field averaged 22,000 barrels of crude oil per day in 2003
and 37,000 barrels per day in 2002. The results of an
appraisal drilling program are being incorporated into the
development plan for Northern Block G discoveries
(AHC 85%). It is anticipated that the development plan will
be submitted for government approval in the second quarter of
2004.

Malaysia —
Thailand.

In 2003, the Corporation
exchanged its oil and gas assets in Colombia for an additional
25% interest in long-lived natural gas reserves in the joint
development area of Malaysia and Thailand, bringing the
Corporation’s interest to 50%. This production sharing
contract has a gas sales agreement for the sale of the first
phase of gas production. Construction of the buyer’s
pipeline commenced in the second half of 2003. First production
from the field is expected in mid-2005.

Algeria.

The
Corporation has a 49% interest in a venture with the Algerian
national oil company that is redeveloping three oil fields. The
Corporation’s share of production averaged 19,000 and
15,000 barrels of crude oil per day in 2003 and 2002,
respectively. A seismic program is underway and appraisal
drilling is planned on a 2003 discovery on an exploration block
in Algeria.

Gabon.

Amerada Hess Production Gabon, the Corporation’s 77.5%
owned Gabonese subsidiary, has a 10% interest in the Rabi Kounga
Field and interests in two other Gabonese fields. The
Corporation’s share of production averaged 11,000 net
barrels of crude oil per day in 2003 and 9,000 barrels per day
in 2002.



Indonesia.

Reflecting the sale of the Jabung production sharing contract,
net production in Indonesia amounted to 1,000 barrels of
crude oil per day in 2003 compared with 4,000 barrels per
day in 2002. During 2003, the Corporation acquired a 23%
interest in the Natuna Sea Block A production sharing contract
in exchange for its shares of Premier Oil plc. Consequently,
natural gas production in Indonesia increased to 11,000 Mcf per
day in 2003 from 6,000 Mcf per day in 2002. A natural gas
discovery in the Pangkah production sharing contract area is
being developed.

Thailand.

The
Corporation has a 15% interest in the Pailin gas field offshore
Thailand. Net production from the Corporation’s interest
averaged 52,000 Mcf and 35,000 Mcf of natural gas per day in
2003 and 2002, respectively. Additional appraisal drilling is
planned in 2004 on an onshore discovery on Phu Horm Block E5N
(AHC 35%).

Azerbaijan.

The Corporation has a 2.72% interest in the AIOC Consortium in
the Caspian Sea. Net production from its interest averaged 2,000
barrels of crude oil per day in 2003 and 4,000 barrels per
day in 2002. Development of the Azeri, Chirag and Guneshli
fields is continuing.

Refining and Marketing

Refining.

The
Corporation owns a 50% interest in the HOVENSA refining joint
venture in the United States Virgin Islands with a subsidiary of
Petroleos de Venezuela S.A. (PDVSA). In addition, it owns
and operates a refining facility in Port Reading, New Jersey.

HOVENSA.

HOVENSA’s total crude runs amounted to 440,000 barrels
per day in 2003 and 361,000 barrels per day in 2002. The
fluid catalytic cracking unit at HOVENSA operated at the rates
of 142,000 and 116,000 barrels per day in 2003 and 2002,
respectively. The coking unit at HOVENSA commenced production in
August 2002. The unit operated at the rate of
53,000 barrels per day in 2003. The coker permits HOVENSA
to run lower-cost heavy crude oil. HOVENSA has a long-term
supply contract with PDVSA to purchase 115,000 barrels per
day of Venezuelan Merey heavy crude oil. PDVSA also supplies
155,000 barrels per day of Venezuelan Mesa crude oil to
HOVENSA under a long-term crude oil supply contract. The
remaining crude oil requirements are purchased mainly under
contracts of one year or less from third parties and through
spot purchases on the open market. After sales of refined
products by HOVENSA to third parties, the Corporation purchases
50% of HOVENSA’s remaining production at market prices.

Port Reading
Facility.

The Corporation
owns and operates a fluid catalytic cracking facility in Port
Reading, New Jersey. This facility processes vacuum gas oil and
residual fuel oil. During 2003, the facility operated at a rate
of approximately 54,000 barrels per day and substantially
all of its production was gasoline and heating oil.

Marketing.

The
Corporation markets refined petroleum products on the East Coast
of the United States to the motoring public, wholesale
distributors, industrial and commercial users, other petroleum
companies, governmental agencies and public utilities. It also
markets natural gas to utilities and other industrial and
commercial customers. The Corporation’s energy marketing
activities include the sale of electricity. The Corporation has
a 50% voting interest in a consolidated partnership that trades
energy commodities and derivatives. The Corporation also takes
trading positions for its own account.

The Corporation has 1,195 HESS® gasoline
stations at December 31, 2003, of which approximately 68%
are company operated. In early 2004, a 50% owned joint venture
acquired a chain of gasoline stations, adding approximately
50 HESS® retail outlets. Most of the
Corporation’s gasoline stations are concentrated in densely
populated areas, principally in New York, New Jersey,
Pennsylvania, Florida, Massachusetts and North and South
Carolina, and 856 gasoline stations have convenience stores. The
Corporation owns approximately 50% of the properties on which
the stations are located.

The Corporation has 22 terminals with an
aggregate storage capacity of 21 million barrels in its
East Coast marketing areas.

Refined product sales averaged
419,000 barrels per day in 2003 and 383,000 barrels
per day in 2002. Of total refined products sold in 2003,
approximately 50% was obtained from HOVENSA and Port Reading. The



Corporation purchased the balance from others
under short-term supply contracts and by spot purchases from
various sources.

The Corporation has a wholly-owned subsidiary
that provides distributed electricity generating equipment to
industrial and commercial customers as an alternative to
purchasing electricity from local utilities. The Corporation
also has invested in long-term technology to develop fuel cells
for electricity generation through a venture with other parties.

Competition and Market Conditions

The petroleum industry is highly competitive. The
Corporation encounters competition from numerous companies in
each of its activities, particularly in acquiring rights to
explore for crude oil and natural gas and in the purchasing and
marketing of refined products and natural gas. Many competitors
are larger and have substantially greater resources than the
Corporation. The Corporation is also in competition with
producers and marketers of other forms of energy.

The petroleum business involves large-scale
capital expenditures and risk-taking. In the search for new oil
and gas reserves, long lead times are often required from
successful exploration to subsequent production. Operations in
the petroleum industry depend on a depleting natural resource.
The number of areas where it can be expected that hydrocarbons
will be discovered in commercial quantities is constantly
diminishing and exploration risks are high. Areas where
hydrocarbons may be found are often in remote locations or
offshore where exploration and development activities are
capital intensive and operating costs are high.

The major foreign oil producing countries,
including members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries (“OPEC”), exert considerable influence over
the supply and price of crude oil and refined petroleum
products. Their ability or inability to agree on a common policy
on rates of production and other matters has a significant
impact on oil markets and the Corporation. The derivatives
markets are also important in influencing the selling prices of
crude oil, natural gas and refined products. The Corporation
cannot predict the extent to which future market conditions may
be affected by foreign oil producing countries, the derivatives
markets or other external influences.

Other Items

The Corporation’s operations may be affected
by federal, state, local, territorial and foreign laws and
regulations relating to tax increases and retroactive tax
claims, expropriation of property, cancellation of contract
rights, and changes in import regulations, as well as other
political developments. The Corporation has been affected by
certain of these events in various countries in which it
operates. The Corporation markets motor fuels through
lessee-dealers and wholesalers in certain states where
legislation prohibits producers or refiners of crude oil from
directly engaging in retail marketing of motor fuels. Similar
legislation has been periodically proposed in the U.S. Congress
and in various other states. The Corporation, at this time,
cannot predict the effect of any of the foregoing on its future
operations.

Compliance with various existing environmental
and pollution control regulations imposed by federal, state and
local governments is not expected to have a material adverse
effect on the Corporation’s earnings and competitive
position within the industry. The Corporation spent
$12 million in 2003 for environmental remediation, with a
comparable amount anticipated for 2004. Capital expenditures for
facilities, primarily to comply with federal, state and local
environmental standards, were $7 million in 2003 and the
Corporation anticipates approximately $10 million in 2004.
Regulatory changes already made or anticipated in the United
States will alter the composition and emissions characteristics
of motor fuels. Future capital expenditures necessary to comply
with these regulations will be substantial. The Environmental
Protection Agency has adopted rules that limit the amount of
sulfur in gasoline and diesel fuel. These rules phase in
beginning in 2004. Capital expenditures necessary to comply with
the low-sulfur gasoline requirements at Port Reading are
estimated to be approximately $70 million over the next
several years. Capital expenditures to comply with low-sulfur
gasoline and diesel fuel requirements at HOVENSA are currently
expected to be approximately $450 million over the next
three years. HOVENSA expects to finance these capital
expenditures through cash flow and, if necessary, future
borrowings.



The number of persons employed by the Corporation
averaged 11,481 in 2003 and 11,662 in 2002.

Additional operating and financial information
relating to the business and properties of the Corporation
appears in the text on pages 10 and 11 under the heading
“Exploration & Production,” on pages 12 and
13 under the heading “Refining & Marketing,” on
pages 15 through 33 under the heading “Financial
Review” and on pages 34 through 69 of the accompanying 2003
Annual Report to Stockholders, which information is incorporated
herein by reference.*

The Corporation’s Internet address is
www.hess.com. On its website, the Corporation makes available
free of charge its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly
reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and
amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as
reasonably practicable after the Corporation electronically
files with or furnishes such material to the Securities and
Exchange Commission. Copies of the Corporation’s Code of
Business Conduct and Ethics, its Corporate Governance Guidelines
and the charters of the Audit Committee, the Compensation and
Management Development Committee and the Corporate Governance
and Nominating Committee of the Board of Directors are available
on the Corporation’s website and are also available free of
charge upon request to the Secretary of the Corporation at its
principal executive offices.

Item 2.

Properties

Reference is made to Item 1 and the operating and
financial information relating to the business and properties of
the Corporation which is incorporated in Item 1 by reference.

Additional information relating to the
Corporation’s oil and gas operations follows:

1. Oil and gas reserves

The Corporation’s net proved oil and gas
reserves at the end of 2003, 2002 and 2001 are presented under
Supplementary Oil and Gas Data in the accompanying 2003 Annual
Report to Stockholders, which has been incorporated herein by
reference.

During 2003, the Corporation provided oil and gas
reserve estimates for 2002 to the Department of Energy. Such
estimates are compatible with the information furnished to the
SEC on Form 10-K, although not necessarily directly comparable
due to the requirements of the individual requests. There were
no differences in excess of 5%.

The Corporation has no contracts or agreements to
sell fixed quantities of its crude oil production, although
derivative instruments are used to reduce the effects of changes
in selling prices. In the United States, natural gas is sold to
local distribution companies, and commercial, industrial, and
other purchasers, on a spot basis and under contracts for
varying periods. The Corporation’s United States production
is expected to approximate 45% of its 2004 sales commitments
under long-term contracts which total approximately
355,000 Mcf per day. Natural gas sales commitments for 2005
are expected to be comparable. The Corporation attempts to
minimize price and supply risks associated with its United
States natural gas supply commitments by entering into purchase
contracts with third parties having adequate sources of supply,
on terms substantially similar to those under its commitments.

*

Except as to information specifically
    incorporated herein by reference under Items 1, 2, 5, 6, 7,
    7A and 8, no other information or data appearing in the 2003
    Annual Report to Stockholders is deemed to be filed with the
    Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) as part of this Annual
    Report on Form 10-K, or otherwise subject to the SEC’s
    regulations or the liabilities of Section 18 of the Securities
    Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.



2. Average selling prices and average
production costs

Note A: Includes inter-company transfers
valued at approximate market prices and the effect of the
Corporation’s hedging activities.

Note B: Production (lifting) costs consist
of amounts incurred to operate and maintain the
Corporation’s producing oil and gas wells, related
equipment and facilities (including lease costs of floating
production and storage facilities) and production and severance
taxes. The average production costs per barrel of oil equivalent
reflect the crude oil equivalent of natural gas production
converted on the basis of relative energy content (six Mcf
equals one barrel).

Note C: Variations in production costs
reflect changes in the mix of the Corporation’s producing
fields in Africa and Asia, including fields held under
production sharing contracts.

The foregoing tabulation does not include
substantial costs and charges applicable to finding and
developing proved oil and gas reserves, nor does it reflect
significant outlays for related general and administrative
expenses, interest expense and income taxes.

3. Gross and net undeveloped acreage at
December 31, 2003

Note A: Includes acreage held under
production sharing contracts.

Note B: Approximately one-half of net
undeveloped acreage held at December 31, 2003 will expire
during the next three years.



4. Gross and net developed acreage and
productive wells at December 31, 2003

Note A: Includes multiple completion wells
(wells producing from different formations in the same bore
hole) totaling 99 gross wells and 30 net wells.

5. Number of net exploratory and
development wells drilled

6. Number of wells in process of drilling
at December 31, 2003

7.

Number of waterfloods and pressure maintenance
    projects in process of installation at December 31,
    2003 — 3

Item 3.

Legal
Proceedings

Purported class actions consolidated under the
complaint captioned

In re Amerada Hess Corporation Securities
Litigation

are pending in the United States District Court
for the District of New Jersey, against certain executive
officers and former executive officers of the Registrant
alleging that these individuals sold shares of Registrant’s
common stock in advance of Registrant’s acquisition of
Triton Energy Limited (“Triton”) in 2001 in violation
of federal securities laws. In addition, derivative actions
seeking damages on behalf of the Registrant and consolidated
under a complaint captioned

In re Amerada Hess Derivative
Action

are pending in the Superior Court of the State of New
Jersey against certain executive officers and former executive
officers of the Registrant, some of whom are also directors,
alleging, among other things, that the



officers breached their fiduciary duties by
misusing material non-public information of the Registrant to
personally profit from the sale of the Registrant’s common
stock in connection with the Triton acquisition. Two other
purported class actions, based in large part on the same factual
background, were commenced in May and August 2003 and were
consolidated under a complaint captioned

Falk et. al. v.
Amerada Hess Corporation, et. al.

in the United States
District Court for the District of New Jersey against certain
named executive officers, certain directors and former directors
and certain employees of Registrant on behalf of participants in
the Registrant’s savings and stock bonus plan, alleging
that the defendants breached their fiduciary duties under the
Employee Retirement Income Security Act, resulting in losses to
participants in the plan who held shares of the
Registrant’s common stock. The Registrant believes that
these actions are without merit and is advancing expenses to
these individuals in accordance with its By-Laws to defend these
actions. Based on current legal and factual circumstances,
Registrant does not believe these actions will have a material
adverse effect on its financial condition.

Registrant has been served with a complaint from
the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation
(“DEC”) relating to alleged violations at its
petroleum terminal in Brooklyn, New York. The complaint, which
seeks an order to shut down the terminal and penalties in
unspecified amounts, alleges violations involving the structural
integrity of certain tanks, the erosion of shorelines and
bulkheads, petroleum discharges and improper certification of
tank repairs. DEC is also seeking relief relating to remediation
of certain gasoline stations in the New York metropolitan area.
Registrant believes that many of the allegations are factually
inaccurate or based on an incorrect interpretation of applicable
law. Registrant has already undertaken efforts to address
certain conditions discussed in the complaint. Registrant
intends to vigorously contest the complaint, but is involved in
settlement discussions with DEC.

Over the last five years, many refiners have
entered into consent agreements to resolve EPA’s assertions
that refining facilities were modified or expanded without
complying with New Source Review regulations that require
permits and new emission controls in certain circumstances and
other regulations which impose emissions control requirements.
These consent agreements, which arise out of an EPA enforcement
initiative focusing on petroleum refiners and utilities, have
typically imposed substantial civil fines and penalties and
required significant capital expenditures to install emissions
control equipment. EPA contacted Registrant and HOVENSA L.L.C.
(HOVENSA), its 50% owned joint venture with Petroleos de
Venezuela, regarding the petroleum refinery initiative in
August, 2003 and held an initial meeting in October 2003. While
EPA has not made any specific assertions that the Registrant or
HOVENSA violated the New Source Review regulations, the
Registrant and HOVENSA expect to have further discussions with
EPA regarding the petroleum refining initiative.

In June 2001, the Corporation voluntarily
investigated and disclosed to the New Jersey Department of
Environmental Protection (NJDEP) that there was a calculation
error in the program code of the Port Reading refining
facility’s Wet Gas Scrubber (WGS) Continuous Emissions
Monitoring System (CEMS). The error in the code resulted in the
CEM system under calculating CO, NOx and SO


emissions from the WGS beginning in late 1998 and some
exceedances of the permit limits for NOx. After discovery, the
code error was promptly corrected. In November 2003, the
Corporation received a notice of violation from the NJDEP
relating to the CEM coding error which proposes a fine of
$649,600. The Corporation is engaging in settlement discussions
with NJDEP to resolve this matter, particularly as regards to a
reduction in the penalty to reflect the voluntary self
disclosure of issue.

The Registrant, along with other companies
engaged in refining and marketing of gasoline, has been a party
to lawsuits and claims related to the use of the methyl tertiary
butyl ether (MTBE) in gasoline. A series of substantially
identical lawsuits, many involving water utilities or
governmental entities, have been recently filed in jurisdictions
across the United States against producers of MTBE and petroleum
refiners who produce gasoline containing MTBE, including
Registrant. The principal allegation is that gasoline containing
MTBE is a defective product and that these parties are strictly
liable in proportion to their share of the gasoline market for
damage to groundwater resources and are required to take
remedial action to ameliorate the alleged effects on the
environment of releases of MTBE. Additional property damage and
personal injury lawsuits and claims related to the use of MTBE
are expected. Prior class action product liability based
litigation involving MTBE in gasoline has been resolved without
a material effect on the Registrant. While the damages claimed
in these



actions are substantial, Registrant has no reason
to believe, based on factual and legal circumstances currently
known to the Registrant, that these actions will have a material
adverse effect on its financial condition. However, these
actions are in their preliminary stages, and the factual and
legal circumstances may change.

In April 2003 HOVENSA received a notice of
violation from the Virgin Islands Department of Planning and
Natural Resources (“DPNR”), relating to certain
alleged wastewater permit exceedances occurring in 2001 and 2002
at HOVENSA. The notice proposes a fine of $219,000 and requires
corrective actions to address the alleged violations. HOVENSA is
engaging in settlement discussions with DPNR to resolve this
matter.

The Registrant periodically receives notices from
EPA that it is a “potential responsible party” under
the Superfund legislation with respect to various waste disposal
sites. Under this legislation, all potentially responsible
parties are jointly and severally liable. For certain sites,
EPA’s claims or assertions of liability against the
Corporation relating to these sites have not been fully
developed. With respect to the remaining sites, EPA’s
claims have been settled, or a proposed settlement is under
consideration, in all cases for amounts which are not material.
The ultimate impact of these proceedings, and of any related
proceedings by private parties, on the business or accounts of
the Corporation cannot be predicted at this time due to the
large number of other potentially responsible parties and the
speculative nature of clean-up cost estimates, but is not
expected to be material.

Registrant is one of approximately 40 companies
that have received a directive from the New Jersey Department of
Environmental Protection to remediate contamination in the
sediments of the lower Passaic River and NJDEP is also seeking
natural resource damages. The directive, insofar as it affects
Registrant, relates to alleged releases from a petroleum bulk
storage terminal in Newark, New Jersey now owned by Registrant.
EPA has also issued an order relating to the same contamination,
but has not named Registrant. The costs of remediation of the
Passaic River are preliminary, but NJDEP has estimated them at
approximately $900 million. Based on currently known facts and
circumstances, Registrant does not believe that this matter will
result in material liability because its terminal could not have
contributed contamination along most of the river’s length
and did not store or use contaminants which are of the greatest
concern in the river sediments, and because there are numerous
other parties who will likely share in the cost of remediation
and damages.

The Corporation is from time to time involved in
other judicial and administrative proceedings, including
proceedings relating to other environmental matters. Although
the ultimate outcome of these proceedings cannot be ascertained
at this time and some of them may be resolved adversely to the
Corporation, no such proceeding is required to be disclosed
under applicable rules of the Securities and Exchange
Commission. In management’s opinion, based upon currently
known facts and circumstances, such proceedings in the aggregate
will not have a material adverse effect on the financial
condition of the Corporation.

Item 4.

Submission of Matters to a
Vote of Security Holders

During the fourth quarter of 2003, no matter was
submitted to a vote of security holders through the solicitation
of proxies or otherwise.



Executive Officers of the
Registrant

The following table presents information as of
February 1, 2004 regarding executive officers of the
Registrant:

*

All officers referred to herein hold office in
    accordance with the By-Laws until the first meeting of the
    Directors following the annual meeting of stockholders of the
    Registrant and until their successors shall have been duly
    chosen and qualified. Each of said officers was elected to the
    office set forth opposite his name on May 7, 2003. The
    first meeting of Directors following the next annual meeting of
    stockholders of the Registrant is scheduled to be held
    May 5, 2004.

Except for Messrs. O’Connor, Paver, Rielly,
Sandison and Strode, each of the above officers has been
employed by the Registrant or its subsidiaries in various
managerial and executive capacities for more than five years.
Mr. O’Connor had served in senior executive positions
at Texaco Inc. and BHP Petroleum prior to his employment with
the Registrant in October 2001. Mr. Paver had served in a
senior executive position at BHP Petroleum prior to his
employment with a subsidiary of Registrant in October 2002.
Mr. Rielly had been a partner of Ernst & Young LLP
prior to his employment with the Registrant in April 2001. Mr.
Sandison served in senior executive positions in the area of
global drilling with Texaco, Inc. prior to his employment with a
subsidiary of Registrant in 2002. Prior to his employment with
the Registrant in April 2000, Mr. Strode had served in
senior executive positions in the area of exploration at Vastar
Resources, Inc. and Atlantic Richfield Company.



PART II

Item  5.

Market for the Registrant’s Common
    Stock and Related Stockholder Matters

Information pertaining to the market for the
Registrant’s Common Stock, high and low sales prices of the
Common Stock in 2003 and 2002, dividend payments and
restrictions thereon and the number of holders of Common Stock
is presented on page 32 (Financial Review), page 47
(Long-Term Debt) and on page 66 (Ten-Year Summary of
Financial Data) of the accompanying 2003 Annual Report to
Stockholders, which information is incorporated herein by
reference.

Item 6.

Selected Financial
Data

A Ten-Year Summary of Financial Data is presented
on pages 64 through 67 of the accompanying 2003 Annual
Report to Stockholders, which summary is incorporated herein by
reference.

Item  7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis
    of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The information required by this item is
presented on pages 15 through 33 of the accompanying 2003
Annual Report to Stockholders, which information is incorporated
herein by reference.

Item 7A.

Quantitative and
Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

The information required by this item is
presented under “Market Risk Disclosure” on
pages 25 through 28 and in Note 17 on
pages 53 through 55 of the accompanying 2003 Annual Report
to Stockholders, which information is incorporated herein by
reference.

Item 8.

Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data

The consolidated financial statements, including
the Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors, the
Supplementary Oil and Gas Data (unaudited) and the Quarterly
Financial Data (unaudited) are presented on pages 33
through 63 of the accompanying 2003 Annual Report to
Stockholders, which financial statements, Report and Data are
incorporated herein by reference.

Item  9.

Changes in and Disagreements with
    Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None.

Item  9A.

Controls and Procedures

Based upon their evaluation of the
Corporation’s disclosure controls and procedures (as
defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) as of
December 31, 2003, John B. Hess, Chief Executive Officer,
and John Y. Schreyer, Chief Financial Officer, concluded that
these disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of
December 31, 2003.

There have been no significant changes in the
Corporation’s internal controls or in other factors that
could significantly affect internal controls after
December 31, 2003.

PART III

Item 10.

Directors and
Executive Officers of the Registrant

Information relating to Directors is incorporated
herein by reference to “Election of Directors” from
the Registrant’s definitive proxy statement for the annual
meeting of stockholders to be held on May 5, 2004.

Information regarding executive officers is
included in Part I hereof.

Item 11.

Executive
Compensation

Information relating to executive compensation is
incorporated herein by reference to “Election of
Directors–Executive Compensation and Other
Information,” other than information under
“Compensation Committee Report on Executive
Compensation” and “Performance Graph” included
therein, from the Registrant’s definitive proxy statement
for the annual meeting of stockholders to be held on May 5,
2004.



Item  12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
    Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
    Matters

Information pertaining to security ownership of
certain beneficial owners and management is incorporated herein
by reference to “Election of Directors–Ownership of
Voting Securities by Certain Beneficial Owners” and
“Election of Directors–Ownership of Equity Securities
by Management” from the Registrant’s definitive proxy
statement for the annual meeting of stockholders to be held on
May 5, 2004.

Following is information on the Registrant’s
equity compensation plans at December 31, 2003:

*

These securities may be awarded as stock options,
    restricted stock or other awards permitted under the
    Registrant’s equity compensation plan.

**

Registrant has a Stock Award Program adopted in
    1997 pursuant to which each non-employee director receives
    500 shares of Registrant’s common stock each year.
    These awards are made from treasury shares purchased by the
    Company in the open market. This equity compensation plan was
    not approved by stockholders.

Item 13.

Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions

Information relating to this item is incorporated
herein by reference to “Election of Directors” from
the Registrant’s definitive proxy statement for the annual
meeting of stockholders to be held on May 5, 2004.

Item 14.

Principal
Accounting Fees and Services

Information relating to this item is incorporated
by reference to “Ratification of Selection of Independent
Auditors” from the Registrant’s definitive proxy
statement for the annual meeting of stockholders to be held on
May 5, 2004.



PART IV

Item 15.

Exhibits, Financial Statement
Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K

(a) 1. and 2. Financial statements and
financial statement schedules

The financial statements filed as part of this
    Annual Report on Form 10-K are listed in the accompanying index
    to financial statements and schedules.

3. Exhibits



3. Exhibits

(continued)



3. Exhibits

(continued)

* These exhibits relate to executive
compensation plans and arrangements.



(b) Reports
on Form 8-K

During the three months ended December 31,
2003, Registrant filed or furnished the following reports on
Form 8-K: i) report on October 29, 2003
furnishing under Item 7 a news release dated
October 29, 2003 reporting results for the third quarter of
2003 and under Items 7 and 9 the prepared remarks of John
B. Hess, Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive
Officer of the Corporation, in a public conference call;
ii) a filing on November 6, 2003 updating certain
financial information reported in the Corporation’s 2002
Form 10-K to conform with the presentation used in 2003 for
an asset exchange and certain asset sales that were accounted
for as discontinued operations; and iii) a filing on
November 19, 2003 reporting under Items 5 and 7 the
terms of mandatory convertible preferred stock.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has
duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on the 11th day of March
2004.

AMERADA HESS CORPORATION

(Registrant)

By

/s/ JOHN Y.
    SCHREYER

(John Y. Schreyer)

Executive Vice President and

Chief Financial Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the
capacities and on the dates indicated.



AMERADA HESS CORPORATION AND CONSOLIDATED
SUBSIDIARIES

INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND
SCHEDULES

*

The financial statements and notes thereto
    together with the Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent
    Auditors, on pages 34 through 58, the Quarterly Financial Data
    (unaudited) on page 33, and the Supplementary Oil and Gas Data
    (unaudited) on pages 59 through 63 of the accompanying 2003
    Annual Report to Stockholders are incorporated herein by
    reference.

**

Schedules other than Schedule II have been
    omitted because of the absence of the conditions under which
    they are required or because the required information is
    presented in the financial statements or the notes thereto.

F-1


CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

We consent to the incorporation by reference in
this Annual Report (Form 10-K) of Amerada Hess Corporation
of our report dated February 20, 2004, included in the 2003
Annual Report to Stockholders of Amerada Hess Corporation.

Our audits also included the financial statement
schedule of Amerada Hess Corporation listed in Item 15(a).
This schedule is the responsibility of the Corporation’s
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on
our audits. In our opinion, the financial statement schedule
referred to above, when considered in relation to the basic
financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all
material respects the information set forth therein.

We also consent to the incorporation by reference
in Registration Statements (Form S-8, Nos. 333-94851,
333-43569 and 333-43571, and Form S-3, No. 333-110294)
pertaining to the Amerada Hess Corporation Employees’
Savings and Stock Bonus Plan, Amerada Hess Corporation Savings
and Stock Bonus Plan for Retail Operations Employees, Amended
and Restated 1995 Long-Term Incentive Plan and the Amerada
Hess Corporation Registration Statement of our report dated
February 20, 2004, with respect to the consolidated
financial statements of Amerada Hess Corporation incorporated by
reference in the Annual Report (Form 10-K), and the
financial statement schedule included in the Annual Report
(Form 10-K), for the year ended December 31, 2003, and
our report dated January 27, 2004 with respect to the financial
statements of HOVENSA L.L.C. included in the Amerada Hess
Corporation Annual Report (Form 10-K) for the year ended
December 31, 2003.

New York, NY

March 11, 2004

F-2


Schedule II

AMERADA HESS CORPORATION AND CONSOLIDATED
SUBSIDIARIES

VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

For the Years Ended December 31, 2003,
2002 and 2001

(in millions)

(A)

Reflects write-off of uncollectible accounts.

F-3


EXHIBIT INDEX




*

These exhibits relate to executive compensation
    plans and arrangements.