
10-K405
FORM 10-K, AMERADA HESS CORPORATION



 
================================================================================
 
                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                            ------------------------
 
                                   FORM 10-K
 
         [X] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
           OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996
                                       or
         [ ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
           OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
            For the transition period from ____________ to ____________
 
                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-1204
 
                            ------------------------
 
                            AMERADA HESS CORPORATION
 
             (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)
 
                                    DELAWARE
         (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)
                                   13-4921002
                    (I.R.S. Employer Identification Number)
 
    1185 AVENUE OF THE AMERICAS, NEW YORK, N.Y.            10036
      (Address of principal executive offices)           (Zip code)
 
    (Registrant's telephone number, including area code, is (212) 997-8500)
 
                            ------------------------
 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:
 
  TITLE OF EACH CLASS                          NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE
                                               ON WHICH REGISTERED

Common Stock (par value $1.00)                New York Stock Exchange
                                              Toronto Stock Exchange
                                             
                                               
 
                                           
 
       SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT:  None
 
     Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes  x  No  __
     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.  [X]
     The aggregate market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
Registrant amounted to $4,237,000,000 as of February 28, 1997.
     At February 28, 1997, 92,920,305 shares of Common Stock were outstanding.
     Certain items in Parts I and II incorporate information by reference from
the 1996 Annual Report to Stockholders and Part III is incorporated by reference
from the Proxy Statement for the annual meeting of stockholders to be held on
May 7, 1997.
================================================================================
                                                                
                                                         

 
                                     PART I
 
ITEM 1.  BUSINESS
 
     Amerada Hess Corporation (the "Registrant") was incorporated in 1920 in the
State of Delaware. The Registrant and its subsidiaries (collectively referred to
herein as the "Corporation") engage in the exploration for and the production,
purchase, transportation and sale of crude oil and natural gas. The Corporation
also manufactures, purchases, transports and markets refined petroleum products.
 
EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION
 
     The Corporation's exploration and production activities are located
primarily in the United States, United Kingdom, Norway and Gabon. The
Corporation also conducts exploration and/or production activities in Denmark,
Thailand, Indonesia and other parts of the world. Of the Company's proved
reserves (on a barrel of oil equivalent basis), 35% are located in the United
States, 61% are located in the United Kingdom, Norwegian and Danish sectors of
the North Sea and the remainder are located in Gabon, Indonesia and Thailand.
Worldwide crude oil and natural gas liquids production amounted to 236,797
barrels per day in 1996 compared with 260,460 barrels per day in 1995. Worldwide
natural gas production was 684,666 Mcf per day in 1996 compared with 884,131 Mcf
per day in 1995.
 
     At December 31, 1996, the Corporation had 578 million barrels of proved
crude oil and natural gas liquids reserves compared with 695 million barrels at
the end of 1995. Proved natural gas reserves were 1,866 million Mcf at December
31, 1996 compared with 2,481 million Mcf at December 31, 1995. The Corporation
also has an inventory of drillable prospects in the United States, the North Sea
and in other parts of the world.
 
     In 1996, the Corporation sold its wholly-owned subsidiary, Amerada Hess
Canada Ltd., certain United States and United Kingdom producing properties and
Abu Dhabi assets. Reserves sold consisted of 98 million barrels of crude oil and
natural gas liquids and 598 million Mcf of natural gas, which generated proceeds
of approximately $1 billion. As a result of the asset sales in the second and
third quarters of 1996, worldwide production was reduced by approximately 35,000
barrels of crude oil and natural gas liquids per day and 275,000 Mcf of natural
gas per day. Of that amount, 12,500 barrels of crude oil per day and 85,000 Mcf
of natural gas per day related to United States operations.
 
     UNITED STATES.  The Corporation operates principally offshore in the Gulf
of Mexico and onshore in the states of Texas, Louisiana and North Dakota. During
1996, 21% of the Corporation's crude oil and natural gas liquids production and
49% of its natural gas production were from United States operations.
 
     The table below sets forth the Corporation's average daily net production
by area in the United States:
 

 

 
     UNITED KINGDOM.  The Corporation's activities in the United Kingdom are
conducted by its wholly-owned subsidiary, Amerada Hess Limited. During 1996, 60%
of the Corporation's crude oil and natural gas liquids production and 37% of its
natural gas production were from United Kingdom operations.
 
     The table below sets forth the Corporation's average daily net production
in the United Kingdom by field and the Corporation's interest in each at
December 31, 1996:
 

 
     NORWAY.  The Corporation's activities in Norway are conducted through its
wholly-owned Norwegian subsidiary, Amerada Hess Norge A/S. The Corporation's
Norwegian operations accounted for crude oil and natural gas liquids production
of 29,188 and 26,990 net barrels per day in 1996 and 1995, respectively.
Approximately 60% of this production is from the Corporation's 28.09% interest
in the Valhall Field.
 
     GABON.  The Corporation has a 5.5% interest in the Rabi Kounga oil field
onshore Gabon. The Corporation's share of production from Gabon averaged 9,725
and 9,468 net barrels of crude oil per day in 1996 and 1995, respectively.
 
REFINING AND MARKETING
 
     The Corporation's refining facilities are located in St. Croix, United
States Virgin Islands and Port Reading, New Jersey. Total crude runs averaged
396,000 barrels per day in 1996 and 377,000 barrels per day in 1995. The
Corporation's Virgin Islands refinery was supplied principally under contracts
of one year or less with third parties and through spot purchases on the open
market. In 1996, the Corporation's production supplied less than 5% of its crude
runs. Approximately 80% of the refined products marketed in 1996 was obtained
from the Corporation's refineries. The Corporation purchased the balance from
others under short-term supply contracts and by spot purchases from various
sources. Sales of refined products averaged 495,000 barrels per day in 1996
compared with 487,000 barrels per day in 1995.
 
     HESS OIL VIRGIN ISLANDS REFINERY.  The Corporation owns and operates a
petroleum refinery in St. Croix, United States Virgin Islands through its
wholly-owned subsidiary, Hess Oil Virgin Islands Corp. ("HOVIC"). In 1996,
refined products produced were approximately 69% gasoline and distillates, 10%
refinery feedstocks and the remainder principally residual fuel oil. In addition
to crude distillation capacity, the refinery has a fluid catalytic cracking
unit, which has a current operating rate of approximately 125,000 barrels per
day.
 

 
The refinery also has catalytic reforming units, vacuum distillation capacity,
visbreakers, a sulfolane unit, a penex unit, distillate desulfurizers, vacuum
gas oil desulfurizers and sulfur recovery facilities. HOVIC has approximately 31
million barrels of storage capacity.
 
     The refinery has the capability to process a variety of crude oils,
including high-sulfur crudes. The refinery has a 60-foot-deep harbor and docking
facilities for ten ocean-going tankers. The refinery's harbor accommodates very
large crude carriers after a portion of their crude oil cargo is lightered at
the Corporation's storage and transshipment facility in Saint Lucia, which has a
90-foot-deep harbor. The Saint Lucia facility has approximately 9 million
barrels of storage capacity.
 
     PORT READING FACILITY.  The Corporation owns and operates a fluid catalytic
cracking facility in Port Reading, New Jersey, which processes vacuum gas oil
and operates at a rate of approximately 58,000 barrels per day. The Port Reading
facility primarily produces gasoline and heating oil.
 
     MARKETING.  The Corporation markets refined petroleum products principally
on the East Coast of the United States to the motoring public, wholesale
distributors, industrial and commercial users, other petroleum companies,
commercial airlines, governmental agencies and public utilities.
 
     At December 31, 1996, the Corporation had 548 HESS(R) gasoline stations of
which approximately 80% were operated by the Corporation. Most of the
Corporation's stations are concentrated in highly-populated, urban areas,
principally in New York, New Jersey and Florida. Of the Corporation's stations,
178 have HESS MART(R) convenience stores. The Corporation owns in fee
approximately 75% of the properties on which its stations are located. The
Corporation also has 41 terminals located throughout its marketing area, with
aggregate storage capacity of approximately 45 million barrels.
 
COMPETITION AND MARKET CONDITIONS
 
     The petroleum industry is highly competitive. The Corporation encounters
competition from numerous companies in each of its activities, particularly in
acquiring rights to explore for crude oil and natural gas and in the purchasing
and marketing of refined products. Many competitors are larger and have
substantially greater resources than the Corporation. The Corporation is also in
competition with producers and marketers of other forms of energy.
 
     The petroleum business involves large-scale capital expenditures and
risk-taking. In the search for new oil and gas reserves, long lead times are
often required from successful exploration to subsequent production. Operations
in the petroleum industry depend on a depleting natural resource. The number of
areas where it can be expected that hydrocarbons will be discovered in
commercial quantities is constantly diminishing and exploration risks are high.
Areas where hydrocarbons may be found are often in remote locations or offshore
where exploration and development activities are capital intensive and operating
costs are high.
 
     The major foreign oil producing countries, including members of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries ("OPEC"), exert considerable
influence over the supply and price of crude oil and refined petroleum products.
Their ability or inability to agree on a common policy on rates of production,
oil prices, and other matters has a significant impact on oil markets and the
Corporation. The derivatives markets are also important in influencing the
prices of crude oil, natural gas and refined products. The Corporation cannot
predict the extent to which future market conditions may be affected by OPEC,
the derivatives markets or other external influences.
 
     Selling prices and margins of refined products are subject to changing
market conditions. Supply and demand factors, including the effects of weather,
will continue to affect refined product markets. As a result, the Corporation's
earnings will continue to be volatile.
 
OTHER ITEMS
 
     The Corporation's operations may be affected by federal, state, local,
territorial and foreign laws and regulations relating to tax increases and
retroactive tax claims, expropriation of property, cancellation of contract
rights, and changes in import regulations, as well as other political
developments. The Corporation
 

 
has been affected by certain of these events in various countries in which it
operates. The Corporation markets motor fuels through lessee-dealers and
wholesalers in certain states where legislation prohibits producers or refiners
of crude oil from directly engaging in retail marketing of motor fuels. Similar
legislation has been periodically proposed in the U.S. Congress and in various
other states. The Corporation, at this time, cannot predict the effect of any of
the foregoing on its future operations.
 
     Compliance with various environmental and pollution control regulations
imposed by federal, state and local governments is not expected to have a
materially adverse effect on the Corporation's earnings and competitive position
within the industry. Capital expenditures for facilities, primarily to comply
with federal, state and local environmental standards, were $7 million in 1996
and the Corporation anticipates comparable capital expenditures in 1997. In
addition, the Corporation expended $13 million in 1996 for environmental
remediation, with a comparable amount anticipated for 1997.
 
     The number of persons employed by the Corporation averaged 9,085 in 1996
and 9,574 in 1995.
 
     Additional operating and financial information relating to the business and
properties of the Corporation appears in the text on page 6 under the heading
"United States Exploration and Production," on pages 9 and 10 under the heading
"International Exploration and Production," on pages 13 and 14 under the heading
"Refining and Marketing," on pages 17 through 21 under the heading "Financial
Review" and on pages 22 through 47 of the accompanying 1996 Annual Report to
Stockholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference.*
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
* Except as to information specifically incorporated herein by reference under
  Items 1, 2, 5, 6, 7 and 8, no other information or data appearing in the 1996
  Annual Report to Stockholders is deemed to be filed with the Securities and
  Exchange Commission (SEC) as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, or
  otherwise subject to the SEC's regulations or the liabilities of Section 18 of
  the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 

 
ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES
 
     Reference is made to Item 1 and the operating and financial information
relating to the business and properties of the Corporation, which is
incorporated in Item 1 by reference.
 
     Additional information relating to the Corporation's oil and gas operations
follows.
 
1. OIL AND GAS RESERVES
 
     The Corporation's net proved oil and gas reserves at the end of 1996, 1995
and 1994 are presented under Supplementary Oil and Gas Data in the accompanying
1996 Annual Report to Stockholders, which has been incorporated herein by
reference.
 
     During 1996, the Corporation provided oil and gas reserve estimates for
1995 to the Department of Energy. Such estimates are compatible with the
information furnished to the SEC on Form 10-K, although not necessarily directly
comparable due to the requirements of the individual requests. There were no
differences in excess of 5%.
 
     The Corporation has no long-term contracts or agreements to sell fixed
quantities of its crude oil production. Approximately 60% of the Corporation's
1996 natural gas sales were made under long-term contracts to various
purchasers. Contractual commitments in 1997 (which are expected to be comparable
to 1996) will be filled from the Corporation's production and from contractual
purchases.
 
2. AVERAGE SELLING PRICES AND AVERAGE PRODUCTION COSTS
 

 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
     Note A: Includes inter-company transfers valued at approximate market
prices and the effect of the Corporation's hedging activities.
 
     Note B: Includes sales of purchased gas.
 

 

 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
     Note C: Production (lifting) costs consist of amounts incurred to operate
and maintain the Corporation's producing oil and gas wells, related equipment
and facilities (including lease costs of floating production and storage
facilities) and production and severance taxes. The average production costs per
barrel reflect the crude oil equivalent of natural gas production converted on
the basis of relative energy content.
 
     The foregoing tabulation does not include substantial costs and charges
applicable to finding and developing proved oil and gas reserves, nor does it
reflect significant outlays for related general and administrative expenses,
interest expense and income taxes.
 
3. GROSS AND NET DEVELOPED ACREAGE AND PRODUCTIVE WELLS AT DECEMBER 31, 1996
 

 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
     Note A: Includes multiple completion wells (wells producing from different
formations in the same bore hole) totaling 84 gross wells and 47 net wells.
 
4. GROSS AND NET UNDEVELOPED ACREAGE AT DECEMBER 31, 1996
 

 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 

 
5. NUMBER OF NET EXPLORATORY AND DEVELOPMENT WELLS DRILLED
 

 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
6. NUMBER OF WELLS IN PROCESS OF DRILLING AT DECEMBER 31, 1996
 

 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 

 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
7. NUMBER OF WATERFLOODS AND PRESSURE MAINTENANCE PROJECTS IN PROCESS OF
   INSTALLATION AT
   DECEMBER 31, 1996 -- None
 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
     The Registrant and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Hess Oil Virgin Islands
Corp. ("HOVIC") had been under investigation by a grand jury in, and by the
United States Attorney's Office for, the District of New Jersey, and by a grand
jury in, and by the United States Attorney's Office for, the District of Arizona
and by the Environmental Crimes Unit of the United States Department of Justice.
The focus of these investigations concerned the storage and shipment of
allegedly hazardous waste. The waste at issue, spent distillate desulfurizer
catalyst, was shipped from the HOVIC refinery in St. Croix, U.S. Virgin Islands,
to various locations in the United States, including Arizona. The investigations
sought to determine whether criminal violations of the Resource Conservation and
Recovery Act ("RCRA") and other federal laws occurred in connection with the
handling and transportation of the alleged hazardous waste.
 
     In December 1996, HOVIC entered into a plea agreement with United States
Attorneys for the Districts of New Jersey, Arizona and the Virgin Islands, the
Southern District of Texas and the Western District of Louisiana, the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency - Region II (the "EPA") and the U.S. Department
of Justice, Environmental and Natural Resource Division (collectively, the
"United States"). Pursuant to the plea agreement, which was approved by the
United States District Court for the District of New Jersey, HOVIC entered a
guilty plea to a one-count information charging it with causing hazardous waste
to be transported without a manifest in violation of Title 42, United States
Code, Section 6928(d)(5), a provision of RCRA. Under the plea agreement, the
United States agreed that it will not bring any further charges against
 

 
HOVIC, Registrant or HOVIC's affiliates or any of their respective present or
former employees for any criminal violations arising out of or related to: the
generation, treatment, storage, transportation and disposal of spent refinery
catalyst generated at the HOVIC refinery between April 1990 and January 1992 and
transported to certain locations in Texas and Arizona specified in the plea
agreement between December 1991 and May 1992; the reporting of or failure to
report the release of benzene in connection with the spent catalyst described
above; written or oral statements or testimony concerning the spent catalyst
described above; or the filing of the 1990/1991 and 1992/1993 EPA Biennial
reports filed by HOVIC or Registrant.
 
     The sentence agreed to be imposed upon HOVIC under the plea agreement,
which was approved and imposed by the District Court, as a result of HOVIC's
plea of guilty was as follows: (i) HOVIC paid a criminal fine of $3,000,000;
(ii) HOVIC paid $2,300,000 in restitution/community service to be disbursed in
accordance with the plea agreement; and (iii) HOVIC further agreed to comply
with EPA reporting requirements contained in the plea agreement relating to
spent distillate desulfurizer catalyst at the HOVIC refinery.
 
     Under the plea agreement, it is agreed that the entry of this plea shall
not affect the consideration of the EPA of any permit or application. HOVIC and
the EPA have also separately agreed that the entry of this plea shall not result
in a civil debarment of HOVIC, Registrant or HOVIC's affiliates, provided that
HOVIC materially complies with the reporting requirements of the plea agreement.
If it is determined that HOVIC or Registrant has materially failed to comply
with any provision of the plea agreement, the United States shall be released
from its commitments under the plea agreement and shall so notify HOVIC in
writing.
 
     On April 27, 1993, the Texas Natural Resource Conservation Commission
("TNRCC", then known as the Texas Water Commission) notified the Registrant of
alleged violation of the Texas Water Code as a result of alleged discharges of
hydrocarbon compounds into the groundwater in the vicinity of the Registrant's
terminal in Corpus Christi, Texas. Penalties provided for these violations
include administrative penalties not to exceed $10,000 per day. The Registrant
has undertaken a groundwater assessment, an interim correction measures program
and other appropriate responses to these allegations. On December 9, 1994, the
Executive Director of the TNRCC forwarded a Notice of Executive Director's
Preliminary Report and Petition for a TNRCC Order Assessing Administrative
Penalties and Requiring Certain Actions of Amerada Hess Corporation. This Notice
recommended a $542,400 penalty be assessed and the Registrant be ordered to
undertake remedial actions at the Corpus Christi terminal. The Registrant is
engaging in settlement discussions with the TNRCC regarding this matter.
 
     On September 24, 1996, the EPA commenced an administrative proceeding
against Registrant and HOVIC. The complaint alleges that HOVIC did not determine
whether two wastes generated from maintenance activities at HOVIC's refinery
were hazardous, and that on six occasions in 1994, these wastes were placed on
HOVIC's land treatment units in violation of federal land disposal restrictions
regulations. EPA is seeking a penalty of $165,917. HOVIC and Registrant are
engaging in settlement discussions with EPA regarding this matter.
 
     The Corporation periodically receives notices from the EPA that the
Corporation is a "potentially responsible party" under the Superfund legislation
with respect to various waste disposal sites. Under this legislation, all
potentially responsible parties are jointly and severally liable. For certain
sites, EPA's claims or assertions of liability against the Corporation relating
to these sites have not been fully developed. With respect to the remaining
sites, EPA's claims have been settled, or a proposed settlement is under
consideration, in all cases for amounts which are not material. The ultimate
impact of these proceedings, and of any related proceedings by private parties,
on the business or accounts of the Corporation cannot be predicted at this time
due to the large number of other potentially responsible parties and the
speculative nature of clean-up cost estimates, but is not expected to be
material.
 
     The Corporation is from time to time involved in other judicial and
administrative proceedings, including proceedings relating to other
environmental matters. Although the ultimate outcome of these proceedings cannot
be ascertained at this time and some of them may be resolved adversely to the
Corporation, no such proceeding is required to be disclosed under applicable
rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission. In management's opinion, based
upon currently known facts and circumstances, such proceedings in the aggregate
will not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of the
Corporation.
 

 
ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
 
     During the fourth quarter of 1996, no matter was submitted to a vote of
security holders through the solicitation of proxies or otherwise.
 
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
     The following table presents information as of February 1, 1997 regarding
executive officers of the Registrant:
 

 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
     * All officers referred to herein hold office in accordance with the
By-Laws until the first meeting of the Directors following the annual meeting of
stockholders of the Registrant, and until their successors shall have been duly
chosen and qualified. Each of said officers was elected to the office set forth
opposite his name on May 1, 1996, except that Mr. Walker was elected to his
present office by the Board of Directors at its regular meeting on August 7,
1996. The first meeting of Directors following the next annual meeting of
stockholders of the Registrant is scheduled to be held May 7, 1997.
 
     Except for Mr. Walker, each of the above officers has been employed by the
Registrant in various managerial and executive capacities for more than five
years. Prior to his employment with the Registrant in August 1996, Mr. Walker
had been a general manager in the areas of gasoline marketing, convenience store
development and advertising at Mobil Corporation.
 

 
                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS
 
     Information pertaining to the market for the Registrant's Common Stock,
high and low sales prices of the Common Stock in 1996 and 1995, dividend
payments and restrictions thereon and the number of holders of Common Stock is
presented on page 21 (Financial Review), page 29 (Long-Term Debt) and on page 44
(Ten-Year Summary of Financial Data) of the accompanying 1996 Annual Report to
Stockholders, which has been incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 
     A Ten-Year Summary of Financial Data is presented on pages 42 through 45 of
the accompanying 1996 Annual Report to Stockholders, which has been incorporated
herein by reference.
 
ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS
 
     The information required by this item is presented on pages 17 through 21
of the accompanying 1996 Annual Report to Stockholders, which has been
incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 
     The consolidated financial statements, including the Report of Ernst &
Young LLP, Independent Auditors, the Supplementary Oil and Gas Data (unaudited)
and the Quarterly Financial Data (unaudited) are presented on pages 21 through
41 of the accompanying 1996 Annual Report to Stockholders, which has been
incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
 
     None.
                            ------------------------
 
                                    PART III
 
ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
     Information relating to Directors is incorporated herein by reference to
"Election of Directors" from the Registrant's definitive proxy statement for the
annual meeting of stockholders to be held on May 7, 1997.
 
     Information regarding executive officers is included in Part I hereof.
 
ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 
     Information relating to executive compensation is incorporated herein by
reference to "Election of Directors-Executive Compensation and Other
Information," other than information under "Compensation Committee Report on
Executive Compensation" and "Performance Graph" included therein, from the
Registrant's definitive proxy statement for the annual meeting of stockholders
to be held on May 7, 1997.
 
ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
 
     Information pertaining to security ownership of certain beneficial owners
and management is incorporated herein by reference to "Election of
Directors-Ownership of Voting Securities by Certain Beneficial Owners" and
"Election of Directors-Ownership of Equity Securities by Management" from the
Registrant's definitive proxy statement for the annual meeting of stockholders
to be held on May 7, 1997.
 
ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
 
     Information relating to this item is incorporated herein by reference to
"Election of Directors" from the Registrant's definitive proxy statement for the
annual meeting of stockholders to be held on May 7, 1997.
 
                            ------------------------
 

 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
     (A) 1. AND 2.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
 
             The financial statements filed as part of this Annual Report on
        Form 10-K are listed in the accompanying index to financial statements
        and schedules.
 
         3. EXHIBITS
 

 

 
         3. EXHIBITS (continued)
 

 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
* These exhibits relate to executive compensation plans and arrangements.
 
     (B) REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
     No reports on Form 8-K were filed during the last quarter of Registrant's
fiscal year ended December 31, 1996.
 

 
                                   SIGNATURES
 
     PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THE REGISTRANT HAS DULY CAUSED THIS REPORT TO BE SIGNED ON
ITS BEHALF BY THE UNDERSIGNED, THEREUNTO DULY AUTHORIZED, ON THE 21ST DAY OF
MARCH 1997.
 
                                            AMERADA HESS CORPORATION
                                                 (REGISTRANT)
 
                                            By    /s/ JOHN Y. SCHREYER
                                            ....................................
                                                     (JOHN Y. SCHREYER)
                                                EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND
                                                  CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
 
     PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THIS
REPORT HAS BEEN SIGNED BELOW BY THE FOLLOWING PERSONS ON BEHALF OF THE
REGISTRANT AND IN THE CAPACITIES AND ON THE DATES INDICATED.
 

 

 

 

 
             AMERADA HESS CORPORATION AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
                  INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULES
 

 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
     * The financial statements and notes thereto together with the Report of
Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors, on pages 22 through 36, the Quarterly
Financial Data (unaudited) on page 21, and the Supplementary Oil and Gas Data
(unaudited) on pages 37 through 41 of the accompanying 1996 Annual Report to
Stockholders are incorporated herein by reference.
 
     ** All schedules have been omitted because of the absence of the conditions
under which they are required or because the required information is presented
in the financial statements or the notes thereto.
 
                                       F-1

 
                        CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
 
     We consent to the incorporation by reference in this Annual Report (Form
10-K) of Amerada Hess Corporation of our report dated February 14, 1997,
included in the 1996 Annual Report to Stockholders of Amerada Hess Corporation.
 
     We also consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration
Statements (Form S-8, Nos. 33-39816 and 33-65115) pertaining to the Amerada Hess
Corporation Employees' Savings and Stock Bonus Plan and the 1995 Long-Term
Incentive Plan, of our report dated February 14, 1997, with respect to the
consolidated financial statements incorporated herein by reference.
 
                                                   /s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP
                                                       ERNST & YOUNG LLP
New York, N.Y.
March 21, 1997
 
                                       F-2

 
                                 EXHIBIT INDEX
 


 

 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
* These exhibits relate to executive compensation plans and arrangements.

