10-K


y57862e10-k.htm

ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

AMERADA HESS CORPORATION


UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

Form 10-K

x

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)

OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended

December 31, 2001

or

o

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)

OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from

to

Commission File Number 1-1204

Amerada Hess Corporation

(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its
charter)

DELAWARE

(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or
organization)

13-4921002

(I.R.S. Employer Identification Number)

1185 AVENUE OF THE AMERICAS, NEW YORK, N.Y.

(Address of principal executive
	offices)


(Zip Code)

(Registrant’s telephone number, including area code, is
(212) 997-8500)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
Act:

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
Act:

None

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months
(or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to
file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90
days.  Yes

X

No

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein,
and will not be contained, to the best of Registrant’s
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form
10-K.

o

The aggregate market value of voting stock held by
non-affiliates of the Registrant amounted to $5,255,000,000 as
of February 28, 2002.

At February 28, 2002, 88,777,680 shares of Common
Stock were outstanding.

Certain items in Parts I and II incorporate information by
reference from the 2001 Annual Report to Stockholders and
Part III is incorporated by reference from the Proxy
Statement for the annual meeting of stockholders to be held on
May 1, 2002.



AMERADA HESS CORPORATION

Form 10-K




PART I

Item 1.

Business

Amerada Hess Corporation (the “Registrant”) is a
Delaware corporation, incorporated in 1920. The Registrant and
its subsidiaries (collectively referred to as the
“Corporation”) explore for, produce, purchase,
transport and sell crude oil and natural gas. These exploration
and production activities take place in the United States,
United Kingdom, Norway, Denmark, Gabon, Indonesia, Thailand,
Azerbaijan, Algeria, Colombia, Equatorial Guinea, Malaysia and
other countries. The Corporation also manufactures, purchases,
transports, trades and markets refined petroleum and other
energy products. The Corporation owns 50% of a refinery joint
venture in the United States Virgin Islands, and another
refining facility, terminals and retail gasoline stations
located on the East Coast of the United States.

Exploration and Production

At December 31, 2001, the Corporation had 955 million
barrels of proved crude oil and natural gas liquids reserves
compared with 766 million barrels at the end of 2000.
Proved natural gas reserves were 2,881 million Mcf at
December 31, 2001 compared with 2,127 million Mcf at
December 31, 2000. The crude oil and natural gas reserves
include the Corporation’s proportionate share of the
reserves of equity investees. Of the total proved reserves (on a
barrel of oil equivalent basis), 20% are located in the United
States, 40% are located in the United Kingdom, Norwegian and
Danish sectors of the North Sea and the remainder are located in
Algeria, Azerbaijan, Colombia, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon,
Indonesia, Thailand and Malaysia.

Worldwide crude oil and natural gas liquids production amounted
to 298,000 barrels per day in 2001 compared with 261,000
barrels per day in 2000. Worldwide natural gas production was
812,000 Mcf per day in 2001 compared with 679,000 Mcf per day in
2000. The Corporation has a number of oil and gas developments
in progress and it also has an inventory of domestic and foreign
drillable prospects.

Acquisition of Triton Energy Limited.

On
August 14, 2001, the Corporation acquired Triton Energy
Limited (Triton), an international oil and gas exploration and
production company. Its principal properties, operations and oil
and gas reserves are in Equatorial Guinea, Colombia and the
Joint Development Area of Malaysia-Thailand.

Equatorial Guinea

. Triton has interests in production
sharing contracts covering three offshore blocks. Net crude oil
production from Triton’s 85% interest in the Ceiba Field
averaged 14,500 barrels per day since acquisition in August
2001. The Corporation expects net crude oil production in 2002
to average over 45,000 barrels per day. The Corporation is
considering development alternatives for other oil discoveries
in Equatorial Guinea and plans additional exploration wells.

Colombia

. Triton participates in three contract areas
with a 12% interest (9.6% after royalties) and another contract
area with a 10% interest (8% after royalties). These contract
areas include the Cusiana and Cupiagua Fields. The
Corporation’s share of crude oil production from these
fields averaged 26,400 barrels per day since acquisition in
August 2001.

Malaysia-Thailand

. Triton owns one-half of a corporate
joint venture that holds a 50% interest in a production sharing
contract in the Joint Development Area of the Gulf of Thailand.
In 1999, the parties to the production sharing contract entered
into a gas sales agreement for the sale of the first phase of
gas production. Commencement of production is subject to
completion of pipeline facilities to be constructed by the gas
purchaser.



United States

.  Amerada Hess Corporation
operates mainly offshore in the Gulf of Mexico and onshore in
Texas, Louisiana and North Dakota. During 2001, 26% of the
Corporation’s crude oil and natural gas liquids production
and 52% of its natural gas production were from United States
operations.

The table below sets forth the Corporation’s average daily
net production by area in the United States:

At December 31, 2001, the Corporation has an interest in
177 exploration blocks in the Gulf of Mexico of which it
operates 123. The Corporation has 535,000 net undeveloped acres
in the Gulf of Mexico.

United Kingdom.

The Corporation’s
activities in the United Kingdom are conducted by its
wholly-owned subsidiary, Amerada Hess Limited. During 2001, 42%
of the Corporation’s crude oil and natural gas liquids
production and 36% of its natural gas production were from
United Kingdom operations.



The table below sets forth the Corporation’s average daily
net production in the United Kingdom by field and the
Corporation’s interest in each at December 31, 2001:

The Corporation is developing several oil and gas fields in the
United Kingdom North Sea and is evaluating other discoveries.
Amerada Hess Limited owns 25% of the shares of Premier Oil plc,
a United Kingdom company with international exploration and
production interests.

Norway.

The Corporation’s
activities in Norway are conducted through its wholly-owned
Norwegian subsidiary, Amerada Hess Norge A/S. Norwegian
operations accounted for crude oil and natural gas liquids
production of 26,000 and 27,000 barrels per day in 2001 and
2000, respectively. Natural gas production averaged 25,000 Mcf
and 24,000 Mcf per day in 2001 and 2000, respectively.
Substantially all of the Norwegian production is from the
Corporation’s 28.09% interest in the Valhall Field. An
enhanced-recovery waterflood project for the Valhall Field has
been approved and initial water injection is scheduled for 2003.

Denmark.

Amerada Hess ApS, the
Corporation’s Danish subsidiary, operates the South Arne
Field, which completed its first full year of production in
2000. Net crude oil production from the Corporation’s
57.48% interest in the South Arne Field was 20,000 barrels of
oil per day in 2001 compared to 25,000 barrels of oil per day in
2000. Natural gas production was 43,000 Mcf and 37,000 Mcf of
natural gas per day in 2001 and 2000, respectively.

Gabon.

Amerada Hess Production Gabon
(AHPG), the Corporation’s 77.5% Gabonese subsidiary, has a
10% interest in the Rabi Kounga Field and a 40% interest in the
Atora Field, which began producing in 2001. The
Corporation’s share of production averaged 9,000 net
barrels of crude oil per day in 2001 and 7,000 net barrels per
day in 2000.

Indonesia.

The Corporation has a 30%
interest in the Jabung Production Sharing Contract, which
contains the North Geragai and Makmur fields. Net production
from these fields averaged 6,000 barrels of oil per day in 2001
and 4,000 barrels of oil per day in 2000. The Jabung production
sharing contract area contains



additional discoveries for which development plans are either
underway or being considered. In addition, the Corporation has
interests in other production sharing contracts in Indonesia on
which discoveries have been made.

Thailand.

The Corporation has a 15%
interest in the Pailin gas field offshore Thailand. Net
production from the Corporation’s interest averaged 20,000
Mcf and 23,000 Mcf of natural gas per day in 2001 and 2000,
respectively.

Algeria.

The Corporation has a 49%
interest in a joint venture with the Algerian national oil
company, which is redeveloping three Algerian oil fields. The
Corporation’s share of production averaged 13,000 barrels
of crude oil per day in 2001.

Azerbaijan.

The Corporation has a 2.72%
equity interest in the AIOC Consortium in the Caspian Sea. Net
production from its interest averaged 4,000 barrels and 3,000
barrels of oil per day in 2001 and 2000, respectively.

Refining and Marketing

Refining.

The Corporation owns a 50%
interest in the HOVENSA refining joint venture in the United
States Virgin Islands. In addition, it owns and operates a
refining facility in Port Reading, New Jersey.

HOVENSA.

In 2001, the Corporation’s share
of refinery crude runs averaged 202,000 barrels per day compared
with 211,000 barrels per day in 2000. The refinery is a joint
venture with a subsidiary of Petroleos de Venezuela S.A.
Petroleos de Venezuela supplies 155,000 barrels per day of
Venezuelan Mesa crude oil to HOVENSA under a long-term crude oil
supply contract. The remaining crude oil is purchased mainly
under contracts of one year or less from third parties and
through spot purchases on the open market. After sales of
refined products by HOVENSA to third parties, the Corporation
purchases 50% of HOVENSA’s remaining production at market
prices. Construction is in process on a 58,000 barrel per day
delayed coking unit and related facilities, which are
anticipated to be completed in the second quarter of 2002.
HOVENSA has a long-term supply contract with Petroleos de
Venezuela to purchase 115,000 barrels per day of heavy
Venezuelan Merey crude oil commencing on completion of the coker.

Port Reading Facility.

The Corporation owns
and operates a fluid catalytic cracking facility in Port
Reading, New Jersey. This facility processes vacuum gas oil and
residual fuel oil. It currently operates at a rate of
approximately 55,000 barrels per day and produces substantially
all gasoline and heating oil.

Marketing.

The Corporation markets
refined petroleum products on the East Coast of the United
States to the motoring public, wholesale distributors,
industrial and commercial users, other petroleum companies,
governmental agencies and public utilities. It also markets
natural gas to utilities and other industrial and commercial
customers. The Corporation’s energy marketing activities
include the sale of electricity. The Corporation has a 50%
voting interest in a consolidated partnership that trades energy
commodities and derivatives. The Corporation also takes trading
positions for its own account.

The Corporation has 1,158 HESS® gasoline stations at
December 31, 2001, of which approximately 65% are company
operated. Most of the gasoline stations are concentrated in
densely populated areas, principally in New York, New Jersey,
Pennsylvania, Florida, Massachusetts and North and South
Carolina, and 787 have convenience stores. The Corporation owns
approximately 55% of the properties on which the stations are
located.

In 2001, the Corporation invested $86 million in a 50%
joint venture which owns and operates 120 gasoline stations and
21 travel centers, located primarily in North Carolina, South
Carolina and Virginia. Gasoline and diesel fuel are sold under
the Hess brand. The Corporation added 53 retail outlets located
in the Boston metropolitan area and southern New Hampshire.
These sites, most of which include convenience stores, were
rebranded HESS.

The Corporation’s energy marketing activities include the
sale and distribution of distillate and fuel oil to customers in
its East Coast market area and natural gas to industrial,
commercial and retail customers. In addition, the Corporation
has a wholly-owned subsidiary which provides distributed
electric generation to industrial and commercial customers as an
alternative to purchasing electric from local utilities. The
Corporation also has invested in long-term technology to develop
fuel cells for electricity generation through a venture with
other parties.



The Corporation has 23 terminals with an aggregate storage
capacity of 22 million barrels in its East Coast marketing
areas. Refined product sales averaged 387,000 barrels per day in
2001 and 366,000 barrels per day in 2000. Of total refined
products sold in 2001, approximately 50% was obtained from
HOVENSA and Port Reading. The Corporation purchased the balance
from others under short-term supply contracts and by spot
purchases from various sources.

Competition and Market Conditions

The petroleum industry is highly competitive. The Corporation
encounters competition from numerous companies in each of its
activities, particularly in acquiring rights to explore for
crude oil and natural gas and in the purchasing and marketing of
refined products and natural gas. Many competitors are larger
and have substantially greater resources than the Corporation.
The Corporation is also in competition with producers and
marketers of other forms of energy.

The petroleum business involves large-scale capital expenditures
and risk-taking. In the search for new oil and gas reserves,
long lead times are often required from successful exploration
to subsequent production. Operations in the petroleum industry
depend on a depleting natural resource. The number of areas
where it can be expected that hydrocarbons will be discovered in
commercial quantities is constantly diminishing and exploration
risks are high. Areas where hydrocarbons may be found are often
in remote locations or offshore where exploration and
development activities are capital intensive and operating costs
are high.

The major foreign oil producing countries, including members of
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
(“OPEC”), exert considerable influence over the supply
and price of crude oil and refined petroleum products. Their
ability or inability to agree on a common policy on rates of
production and other matters has a significant impact on oil
markets and the Corporation. The derivatives markets are also
important in influencing the selling prices of crude oil,
natural gas and refined products. The Corporation cannot predict
the extent to which future market conditions may be affected by
foreign oil producing countries, the derivatives markets or
other external influences.

Other Items

The Corporation’s operations may be affected by federal,
state, local, territorial and foreign laws and regulations
relating to tax increases and retroactive tax claims,
expropriation of property, cancellation of contract rights, and
changes in import regulations, as well as other political
developments. The Corporation has been affected by certain of
these events in various countries in which it operates. The
Corporation markets motor fuels through lessee-dealers and
wholesalers in certain states where legislation prohibits
producers or refiners of crude oil from directly engaging in
retail marketing of motor fuels. Similar legislation has been
periodically proposed in the U.S. Congress and in various other
states. The Corporation, at this time, cannot predict the effect
of any of the foregoing on its future operations.

Compliance with various environmental and pollution control
regulations imposed by federal, state and local governments is
not expected to have a materially adverse effect on the
Corporation’s earnings and competitive position within the
industry. The Corporation spent $8 million in 2001 for
environmental remediation, with a comparable amount anticipated
for 2002. Capital expenditures for facilities, primarily to
comply with federal, state and local environmental standards,
were $6 million in 2001 and the Corporation anticipates
$12 million in 2002. Regulatory changes already made or
anticipated in the United States will alter the composition and
emissions characteristics of motor fuels. Future capital
expenditures necessary to comply with these regulations may be
substantial. The Environmental Protection Agency has adopted
rules that limit the amount of sulfur in gasoline and diesel
fuel. These rules phase in beginning in 2004. Capital
expenditures necessary to comply with the low-sulfur gasoline
requirements at Port Reading are expected to be approximately
$70 million over the next three years. Capital expenditures
to comply with low-sulfur gasoline and diesel fuel requirements
at HOVENSA are currently expected to be $460 million over
the next four years. HOVENSA expects to finance these capital
expenditures through cash flow and, if necessary, future
borrowings.

The number of persons employed by the Corporation averaged
10,838 in 2001 and 9,891 in 2000.

Additional operating and financial information relating to the
business and properties of the Corporation appears in the text
on pages 4 through 9 under the heading “Exploration
& Production,” on page 10 under the



heading “Refining,” on page 12 under the heading
“Marketing,” on pages 17 through 26 under the heading
“Financial Review” and on pages 27 through 57 of the
accompanying 2001 Annual Report to Stockholders, which
information is incorporated herein by reference.*

Item 2.

Properties

Reference is made to Item 1 and the operating and financial
information relating to the business and properties of the
Corporation which is incorporated in Item 1 by reference.

Additional information relating to the Corporation’s oil
and gas operations follows:

1. Oil and gas reserves

The Corporation’s net proved oil and gas reserves at the
end of 2001, 2000 and 1999 are presented under Supplementary Oil
and Gas Data in the accompanying 2001 Annual Report to
Stockholders, which has been incorporated herein by reference.

During 2001, the Corporation provided oil and gas reserve
estimates for 2000 to the Department of Energy. Such estimates
are compatible with the information furnished to the SEC on Form
10-K, although not necessarily directly comparable due to the
requirements of the individual requests. There were no
differences in excess of 5%.

The Corporation has no contracts or agreements to sell fixed
quantities of its crude oil production, although derivative
instruments are used to reduce the effects of changes in selling
prices. In the United States, natural gas is sold through the
Company’s marketing division to local distribution
companies, and commercial, industrial, and other purchasers, on
a spot basis and under contracts for varying periods. The
Corporation’s United States production is expected to
approximate 55% of its 2002 commitments under these contracts
which total approximately 700,000 Mcf per day. Natural gas
sales commitments for 2003 are comparable. The Corporation
attempts to minimize price and supply risks associated with its
United States natural gas supply commitments by entering into
purchase contracts with third parties having adequate sources of
supply, on terms substantially similar to those under its
commitments.

*

Except as to information specifically incorporated herein by
	reference under Items 1, 2, 5, 6, 7, 7A and 8, no other
	information or data appearing in the 2001 Annual Report to
	Stockholders is deemed to be filed with the Securities and
	Exchange Commission (SEC) as part of this Annual Report on
	Form 10-K, or otherwise subject to the SEC’s
	regulations or the liabilities of Section 18 of the Securities
	Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.



2. Average selling prices and average production
costs

Note A: Includes inter-company transfers valued at
approximate market prices and the effect of the
Corporation’s hedging activities.

Note B: Production (lifting) costs consist of amounts
incurred to operate and maintain the Corporation’s
producing oil and gas wells, related equipment and facilities
(including lease costs of floating production and storage
facilities) and production and severance taxes. The average
production costs per barrel reflect the crude oil equivalent of
natural gas production converted on the basis of relative energy
content (six Mcf equals one barrel).

Note C: Variations in production costs reflect changes in
the mix of the Corporation’s producing fields in Africa and
Asia, including fields under production sharing contracts.

The foregoing tabulation does not include substantial costs and
charges applicable to finding and developing proved oil and gas
reserves, nor does it reflect significant outlays for related
general and administrative expenses, interest expense and income
taxes.

3. Gross and net undeveloped acreage at December 31,

* Includes acreage held under production sharing contracts.



4. Gross and net developed acreage and productive wells
at December 31, 2001

Note A: Includes multiple completion wells (wells producing
from different formations in the same bore hole) totaling
137 gross wells and 42 net wells.

5. Number of net exploratory and development wells
drilled

6. Number of wells in process of drilling at
December 31, 2001

7.

Number of waterfloods and pressure maintenance projects in
	process of installation at December 31,
	2001 —


Item 3.

Legal Proceedings

In July through October 1998, eight lawsuits were filed against
Registrant’s subsidiary, Triton Energy Limited
(“Triton”) and Thomas G. Finck and Peter Rugg, in
their capacities as former officers of Triton. The lawsuits were
filed in the United States District Court for the Eastern
District of Texas, Texarkana Division, and have been
consolidated and are styled

In re: Triton Energy Limited
Securities Litigation.

The consolidated complaint alleges
violations of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, and Rule 10b-5 promulgated
thereunder, in connection with disclosures concerning its
properties, operations, and value relating to a prospective sale
in 1998 of Triton or of all or a part of its assets. The
lawsuits seek recovery of an unspecified amount of compensatory
damages, fees and costs. Triton filed a motion to dismiss



which was denied. Discovery is proceeding. A motion for class
certification is pending. Triton believes its disclosures were
accurate and intends to vigorously defend these actions but can
make no assurance that the litigation will be resolved in its
favor.

As reported in Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998, allegations
were made to the Registrant’s internal reporting hotline
concerning noncompliance at the Corpus Christi terminal,
formerly owned by Registrant, with federal and state
environmental regulations and its investigation of this
noncompliance. These allegations and the subsequent
investigations were voluntarily disclosed to the Texas Natural
Resource Conservation Commission (“TNRCC”) and related
to (i) onsite disposal of wastes and whether or not such
wastes should have been managed as hazardous wastes under the
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act; and
(ii) nonreporting or misreporting of the results of
wastewater discharge samples required to be obtained by the
Corpus Christi wastewater discharge permit. The Registrant
settled all civil liabilities to TNRCC that might have attached
as a result of the alleged discharge of hydrocarbons and certain
specified waste disposal and wastewater discharge allegations.
Investigations by the United States relating to waste disposal
practices and wastewater discharge reporting at Corpus Christi
may be continuing. It is not possible at this time for
Registrant to state whether any additional proceedings arising
out of the investigations will be commenced against the
Registrant, or what claims would be asserted or what relief
would be sought.

The Registrant investigated and disclosed to TNRCC allegations
made to the Registrant’s internal reporting hotline of
noncompliance at the Galena Park, Texas terminal, formerly owned
by Registrant, with state environmental regulations. The
Registrant’s investigation focused on whether (i) the
vapor control system at Galena Park met applicable regulatory
requirements during loading of marine vessels; and
(ii) Galena Park implemented required controls on air
emissions resulting from tank cleaning operations. The
Registrant settled all civil liabilities relating to air
emissions from tank cleaning by payment of a fine of $47,600 on
September 22, 2000. On December 22, 2000, TNRCC issued
a proposed order assessing a civil fine of $103,125 relating to
control of emissions from loading of marine vessels. On
March 5, 2001, Registrant entered into an agreed order with
the TNRCC agreeing to pay this fine to resolve this matter.

Registrant has been served with a complaint from the New York
State Department of Environmental Conservation (“DEC”)
relating to alleged violations at its petroleum terminal in
Brooklyn, New York. The complaint, which seeks an order to shut
down the terminal and penalties in unspecified amounts, alleges
violations involving the structural integrity of certain tanks,
the erosion of shorelines and bulkheads, petroleum discharges
and improper certification of tank repairs. Registrant believes
that many of the allegations are factually inaccurate or based
on an incorrect interpretation of applicable law. Registrant has
already undertaken efforts to address certain conditions
discussed in the complaint. Registrant intends to vigorously
contest the complaint, but is involved in settlement discussions
with DEC.

On July 20, 2001, Registrant was served notice from the
TNRCC of a proposed administrative penalty of $272,250 relating
to exceedances of hourly limits for SO


emissions at
its Seminole gas processing plant in Seminole, Texas. Registrant
believes that such exceedances were associated with planned
maintenance procedures or upset occurrences at the plant and
therefore qualify for regulatory exemptions, as timely reported
by the Registrant. Registrant has been engaged in settlement
discussions with TNRCC and has agreed in principle to an
administrative penalty of $107,800, with an additional $26,950
deferral payable based on Registrant’s compliance with the
terms of the order settling this matter.

The Corporation periodically receives notices from EPA that the
Corporation is a “potentially responsible party” under
the Superfund legislation with respect to various waste disposal
sites. Under this legislation, all potentially responsible
parties are jointly and severally liable. For certain sites,
EPA’s claims or assertions of liability against the
Corporation relating to these sites have not been fully
developed. With respect to the remaining sites, EPA’s
claims have been settled, or a proposed settlement is under
consideration, in all cases for amounts which are not material.
The ultimate impact of these proceedings, and of any related
proceedings by private parties, on the business or accounts of
the Corporation cannot be predicted at this time due to the
large number of other potentially responsible parties and the
speculative nature of clean-up cost estimates, but is not
expected to be material.



The Corporation is from time to time involved in other judicial
and administrative proceedings, including proceedings relating
to other environmental matters. Although the ultimate outcome of
these proceedings cannot be ascertained at this time and some of
them may be resolved adversely to the Corporation, no such
proceeding is required to be disclosed under applicable rules of
the Securities and Exchange Commission. In management’s
opinion, based upon currently known facts and circumstances,
such proceedings in the aggregate will not have a material
adverse effect on the financial condition of the Corporation.

Item 4.

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
Holders

During the fourth quarter of 2001, no matter was submitted to a
vote of security holders through the solicitation of proxies or
otherwise.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following table presents information as of February 1,
2002 regarding executive officers of the Registrant:

*

All officers referred to herein hold office in accordance with
	the By-Laws until the first meeting of the Directors following
	the annual meeting of stockholders of the Registrant and until
	their successors shall have been duly chosen and qualified. Each
	of said officers was elected to the office set forth opposite
	his name on May 2, 2001, except for Messrs. O’Connor
	and Walker, who were elected to their current offices in
	November 2001, and February 2002, respectively. The first
	meeting of Directors following the next annual meeting of
	stockholders of the Registrant is scheduled to be held
	May 1, 2002.

Except for Messrs. O’Connor, Strode and Gartman, each of
the above officers has been employed by the Registrant or its
subsidiaries in various managerial and executive capacities for
more than five years. Mr. O’Connor had served in senior
executive positions at Texaco Inc. and BHP Petroleum prior to
his employment with the Registrant in October 2001. Prior to his
employment with the Registrant in April 2000, Mr. Strode
had served in senior executive positions in the area of
exploration at Vastar Resources, Inc. and Atlantic Richfield
Company. Mr. Gartman had been a vice president of Public
Service Electric and Gas Company in the area of energy marketing
prior to his employment with the Registrant in October 1997.



PART II

Item  5.

Market for the Registrant’s Common Stock and Related
	Stockholder Matters

Information pertaining to the market for the Registrant’s
Common Stock, high and low sales prices of the Common Stock in
2001 and 2000, dividend payments and restrictions thereon and
the number of holders of Common Stock is presented on
page 26 (Financial Review), pages 36 and 37 (Long-Term
Debt) and on page 54 (Ten-Year Summary of Financial Data)
of the accompanying 2001 Annual Report to Stockholders, which
has been incorporated herein by reference.

Item 6.

Selected Financial Data

A Ten-Year Summary of Financial Data is presented on
pages 52 through 55 of the accompanying 2001 Annual Report
to Stockholders, which has been incorporated herein by reference.

Item  7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
	Condition and Results of Operations

The information required by this item is presented on
pages 17 through 26 of the accompanying 2001 Annual Report
to Stockholders, which has been incorporated herein by reference.

Item 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative
Disclosures About Market Risk

The information required by this item is presented under
“Derivative Instruments” on
pages 22 through 24 and in Footnote 14 on
pages 41 through 43 of the accompanying 2001 Annual
Report to Stockholders, which has been incorporated herein by
reference.

Item 8.

Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data

The consolidated financial statements, including the Report of
Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors, the Supplementary
Oil and Gas Data (unaudited) and the Quarterly Financial Data
(unaudited) are presented on pages 26 through 51 of
the accompanying 2001 Annual Report to Stockholders, which has
been incorporated herein by reference.

Item  9.

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
	Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None.

PART III

Item 10.

Directors and Executive Officers
of the Registrant

Information relating to Directors is incorporated herein by
reference to “Election of Directors” from the
Registrant’s definitive proxy statement for the annual
meeting of stockholders to be held on May 1, 2002.

Information regarding executive officers is included in Part I
hereof.

Item 11.

Executive Compensation

Information relating to executive compensation is incorporated
herein by reference to “Election of
Directors–Executive Compensation and Other
Information,” other than information under
“Compensation Committee Report on Executive
Compensation” and “Performance Graph” included
therein, from the Registrant’s definitive proxy statement
for the annual meeting of stockholders to be held on May 1,
2002.

Item 12.

Security Ownership of Certain
Beneficial Owners and Management

Information pertaining to security ownership of certain
beneficial owners and management is incorporated herein by
reference to “Election of Directors–Ownership of
Voting Securities by Certain Beneficial Owners” and
“Election of Directors–Ownership of Equity Securities
by Management” from the Registrant’s definitive proxy
statement for the annual meeting of stockholders to be held on
May 1, 2002.

Item 13.

Certain Relationships and Related
Transactions

Information relating to this item is incorporated herein by
reference to “Election of Directors” from the
Registrant’s definitive proxy statement for the annual
meeting of stockholders to be held on May 1, 2002.



PART IV

Item 14.

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and
Reports on Form 8-K

(a) 1. and 2. Financial statements and financial
statement schedules

The financial statements filed as part of this Annual Report on
	Form 10-K are listed in the accompanying index to financial
	statements and schedules.

3. Exhibits



3. Exhibits

(continued)



3. Exhibits

(continued)

* These exhibits relate to executive compensation plans and
arrangements.

(b) Reports
on Form 8-K

No reports were filed on Form 8-K during the last quarter
of Registrant’s fiscal year ended December 31, 2001.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused
this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized, on the 21st day of March 2002.

AMERADA HESS CORPORATION

(Registrant)

By

/s/ JOHN Y.
	SCHREYER

.....................................................

(John Y. Schreyer)

Executive Vice President and

Chief Financial Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following
persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on
the dates indicated.





AMERADA HESS CORPORATION AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES

INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULES

*

The financial statements and notes thereto together with the
	Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors, on pages
	27 through 46, the Quarterly Financial Data (unaudited) on page
	26, and the Supplementary Oil and Gas Data (unaudited) on pages
	47 through 51 of the accompanying 2001 Annual Report to
	Stockholders are incorporated herein by reference.

**

Schedules other than Schedule II have been omitted because
	of the absence of the conditions under which they are required
	or because the required information is presented in the
	financial statements or the notes thereto.

F-1


CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

We consent to the incorporation by reference in this Annual
Report (Form 10-K) of Amerada Hess Corporation of our
report dated February 22, 2002, included in the 2001 Annual
Report to Stockholders of Amerada Hess Corporation.

Our audits also included the financial statement schedule of
Amerada Hess Corporation listed in Item 14(a). This
schedule is the responsibility of the Corporation’s
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on
our audits. In our opinion, the financial statement schedule
referred to above, when considered in relation to the basic
financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all
material respects the information set forth therein.

We also consent to the incorporation by reference in the
Registration Statements (Form S-8, Nos. 333-94851,
333-43569, 333-43571 and 33-65115) pertaining to the Amerada
Hess Corporation Employees’ Savings and Stock Bonus Plan,
Amerada Hess Corporation Savings and Stock Bonus Plan for Retail
Operations Employees and the 1995 Long-Term Incentive Plan, and
Form S-3 No. 333-65542 and in the related Prospectus,
of our report dated February 22, 2002, with respect to the
consolidated financial statements incorporated herein by
reference.

/s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Ernst & Young LLP

New York, N.Y.

March 21, 2002

F-2


Schedule II

AMERADA HESS CORPORATION AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES

VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

For the Years Ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999

(in millions)

(A)

Reflects write-off of uncollectible accounts.

(B)

Primarily reflects use of tax loss carryforward.

(C)

Primarily represents cost of turnaround at refining facility.

F-3


EXHIBIT INDEX



*

These exhibits relate to executive compensation plans and
	arrangements.