Item 1.Business





OUR BUSINESS



Overview



We are a public utility holding company. Our operating subsidiaries own and operate electric transmission and distribution facilities and natural gas distribution facilities and own interests in Enable Midstream Partners, LP (Enable) as described below.  Our indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries include:



•CenterPoint Energy Houston Electric, LLC (CenterPoint Houston), which engages in the electric transmission and distribution business in the Texas Gulf Coast area that includes the city of Houston; and



•CenterPoint Energy Resources Corp. (CERC Corp. and, together with its subsidiaries, CERC), which owns and operates natural gas distribution systems (NGD).  A wholly-owned subsidiary of CERC Corp. offers variable and fixed-price physical natural gas supplies primarily to commercial and industrial customers and electric and gas utilities.  As ofDecember 31, 2015, CERC Corp. also owned approximately 55.4% of the limited partner interests in Enable, which owns, operates and develops natural gas and crude oil infrastructure assets.



Our reportable business segments are Electric Transmission & Distribution, Natural Gas Distribution, Energy Services, Midstream Investments and Other Operations. Substantially all of our former Interstate Pipelines business segment and Field Services business segment were contributed to Enable in May 2013.  As a result, these business segments did not report operating results during 2014 or 2015.  From time to time, we consider the acquisition or the disposition of assets or businesses.



Our principal executive offices are located at 1111 Louisiana, Houston, Texas 77002 (telephone number: 713-207-1111).



We make available free of charge on our Internet website our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such reports with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Additionally, we make available free of charge on our Internet website:



•our Code of Ethics for our Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officers;



•our Ethics and Compliance Code;



•our Corporate Governance Guidelines; and



•the charters of the audit, compensation and governance committees of our Board of Directors.



Any shareholder who so requests may obtain a printed copy of any of these documents from us. Changes in or waivers of our Code of Ethics for our Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officers and waivers of our Ethics and Compliance Code for directors or executive officers will be posted on our Internet website within five business days of such change or waiver and maintained for at least 12 months or reported on Item 5.05 of Form 8-K.



Our website address iswww.centerpointenergy.com.Investors should also note that we announce material financial information in SEC filings, press releases and public conference calls. Based on guidance from the SEC, we may use the investor relations section of our website to communicate with our investors. It is possible that the financial and other information posted there could be deemed to be material information.  Except to the extent explicitly stated herein, documents and information on our website are not incorporated by reference herein.



Electric Transmission & Distribution



CenterPoint Houston is a transmission and distribution electric utility that operates wholly within the state of Texas. Neither CenterPoint Houston nor any other subsidiary of CenterPoint Energy makes direct retail or wholesale sales of electric energy or owns or operates any electric generating facilities.












Electric Transmission



On behalf of retail electric providers (REPs), CenterPoint Houston delivers electricity from power plants to substations, from one substation to another and to retail electric customers taking power at or above 69 kilovolts (kV) in locations throughout CenterPoint Houston’s certificated service territory. CenterPoint Houston constructs and maintains transmission facilities and provides transmission services under tariffs approved by the Public Utility Commission of Texas (Texas Utility Commission).



Electric Distribution



In the Electric Reliability Council of Texas, Inc. (ERCOT), end users purchase their electricity directly from certificated REPs. CenterPoint Houston delivers electricity for REPs in its certificated service area by carrying lower-voltage power from the substation to the retail electric customer. CenterPoint Houston’s distribution network receives electricity from the transmission grid through power distribution substations and delivers electricity to end users through distribution feeders. CenterPoint Houston’s operations include construction and maintenance of distribution facilities, metering services, outage response services and call center operations. CenterPoint Houston provides distribution services under tariffs approved by the Texas Utility Commission. Texas Utility Commission rules and market protocols govern the commercial operations of distribution companies and other market participants. Rates for these existing services are established pursuant to rate proceedings conducted before municipalities that have original jurisdiction and the Texas Utility Commission.



ERCOT Market Framework



CenterPoint Houston is a member of ERCOT.  Within ERCOT, prices for wholesale generation and retail electric sales are unregulated, but services provided by transmission and distribution companies, such as CenterPoint Houston, are regulated by the Texas Utility Commission.  ERCOT serves as the regional reliability coordinating council for member electric power systems in most of Texas. ERCOT membership is open to consumer groups, investor and municipally-owned electric utilities, rural electric cooperatives, independent generators, power marketers, river authorities and REPs. The ERCOT market includes most of the State of Texas, other than a portion of the panhandle, portions of the eastern part of the state bordering Arkansas and Louisiana and the area in and around El Paso. The ERCOT market represents approximately 90% of the demand for power in Texas and is one of the nation’s largest power markets. The ERCOT market included available generating capacity of over 77,000 megawatts (MW) as of December 31, 2015. Currently, there are only limited direct current interconnections between the ERCOT market and other power markets in the United States and Mexico.



The ERCOT market operates under the reliability standards set by the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) and approved by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). Within ERCOT, these reliability standards are administered by the Texas Reliability Entity (TRE). The Texas Utility Commission has primary jurisdiction over the ERCOT market to ensure the adequacy and reliability of electricity supply across the state’s main interconnected power transmission grid. The ERCOT independent system operator (ERCOT ISO) is responsible for operating the bulk electric power supply system in the ERCOT market. Its responsibilities include ensuring that electricity production and delivery are accurately accounted for among the generation resources and wholesale buyers and sellers.



CenterPoint Houston’s electric transmission business, along with those of other owners of transmission facilities in Texas, supports the operation of the ERCOT ISO. The transmission business has planning, design, construction, operation and maintenance responsibility for the portion of the transmission grid and for the load-serving substations it owns, primarily within its certificated area. CenterPoint Houston participates with the ERCOT ISO and other ERCOT utilities to plan, design, obtain regulatory approval for and construct new transmission lines necessary to increase bulk power transfer capability and to remove existing constraints on the ERCOT transmission grid.



Restructuring of the Texas Electric Market



In 1999, the Texas legislature adopted the Texas Electric Choice Plan (Texas electric restructuring law). Pursuant to that legislation, integrated electric utilities operating within ERCOT were required to unbundle their integrated operations into separate retail sales, power generation and transmission and distribution companies.  The legislation provided for a transition period to move to the new market structure and provided a mechanism for the formerly integrated electric utilities to recover stranded and certain other costs resulting from the transition to competition. Those costs were recoverable after approval by the Texas Utility Commission either through the issuance of securitization bonds or through the implementation of a competition transition charge as a rider to the utility’s tariff.  CenterPoint Houston’s integrated utility business was restructured in accordance with the Texas electric restructuring law and its generating stations were sold to third parties.  Ultimately CenterPoint Houston was authorized to recover a total of approximately $5 billion in stranded costs, other charges and related interest.  Most of that amount was recovered through the issuance of transition bonds by special purpose subsidiaries of CenterPoint Houston.  The transition bonds










are repaid through charges imposed on customers in CenterPoint Houston’s service territory.  As ofDecember 31, 2015, approximately $2.3 billion aggregate principal amount of transition bonds were outstanding.



Customers



CenterPoint Houston serves nearly all of the Houston/Galveston metropolitan area. AtDecember 31, 2015, CenterPoint Houston’s customers consisted of approximately 69 REPs, which sell electricity to over 2.3 million metered customers in CenterPoint Houston’s certificated service area, and municipalities, electric cooperatives and other distribution companies located outside CenterPoint Houston’s certificated service area. Each REP is licensed by, and must meet minimum creditworthiness criteria established by, the Texas Utility Commission.



Sales to REPs that are affiliates of NRG Energy, Inc. (NRG) represented approximately 35%, 37% and 38% of CenterPoint Houston’s transmission and distribution revenues in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.  Sales to REPs that are affiliates of Energy Future Holdings Corp. (Energy Future Holdings) represented approximately 10% of CenterPoint Houston’s transmission and distribution revenues in each of 2015, 2014 and 2013.  CenterPoint Houston’s aggregate billed receivables balance from REPs as ofDecember 31, 2015was $195 million.  Approximately 34% and 11% of this amount was owed by affiliates of NRG and Energy Future Holdings, respectively. CenterPoint Houston does not have long-term contracts with any of its customers. It operates using a continuous billing cycle, with meter readings being conducted and invoices being distributed to REPs each business day.



Advanced Metering System and Distribution Grid Automation (Intelligent Grid)



In May 2012, CenterPoint Houston substantially completed the deployment of an advanced metering system (AMS), having installed approximately 2.2 million smart meters. To recover the cost of the AMS, the Texas Utility Commission approved a monthly surcharge payable by REPs, initially over 12 years and later reduced to six years as a result of U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) grant funds.  The surcharge expired in 2015 for residential customers and is set to expire in 2016 to 2017 for non-residential customers.  The surcharge amounts and duration are subject to adjustment in future proceedings to reflect actual costs incurred and to address required changes in scope.



CenterPoint Houston is also pursuing deployment of an electric distribution grid automation strategy that involves the implementation of an “Intelligent Grid” (IG) which would provide on-demand data and information about the status of facilities on its system. We expect to include the costs of the deployment in future rate proceedings before the Texas Utility Commission.



In October 2009, the DOE selected CenterPoint Houston for a $200 million grant to help fund its AMS and IG projects.  CenterPoint Houston received substantially all of the $200 million of grant funding from the DOE by 2011 and used $150 million of it to accelerate completion of its deployment of advanced meters to 2012.  CenterPoint Houston used the other $50 million from the grant for an initial deployment of an IG that covers approximately 12% of its service territory.  The DOE-funded portion of the IG project was substantially completed in 2015, and the capital portion of the IG project subject to partial funding by the DOE cost approximately $140 million.



Competition



There are no other electric transmission and distribution utilities in CenterPoint Houston’s service area. In order for another provider of transmission and distribution services to provide such services in CenterPoint Houston’s territory, it would be required to obtain a certificate of convenience and necessity from the Texas Utility Commission and, depending on the location of the facilities, may also be required to obtain franchises from one or more municipalities. We know of no other party intending to enter this business in CenterPoint Houston’s service area at this time. Distributed generation (i.e., power generation located at or near the point of consumption) could result in a reduction of demand for CenterPoint Houston’s electric distribution services but has not been a significant factor to date.



Seasonality



A significant portion of CenterPoint Houston’s revenues is derived from rates that it collects from each REP based on the amount of electricity it delivers on behalf of such REP. Thus, CenterPoint Houston’s revenues and results of operations are subject to seasonality, weather conditions and other changes in electricity usage, with revenues generally being higher during the warmer months.












Properties



All of CenterPoint Houston’s properties are located in Texas. Its properties consist primarily of high-voltage electric transmission lines and poles, distribution lines, substations, service centers, service wires and meters. Most of CenterPoint Houston’s transmission and distribution lines have been constructed over lands of others pursuant to easements or along public highways and streets under franchise agreements and as permitted by law.



All real and tangible properties of CenterPoint Houston, subject to certain exclusions, are currently subject to:



•the lien of a Mortgage and Deed of Trust (the Mortgage) dated November 1, 1944, as supplemented; and



•the lien of a General Mortgage (the General Mortgage) dated October 10, 2002, as supplemented, which is junior to the lien of the Mortgage.



As ofDecember 31, 2015, CenterPoint Houston had approximately $2.1 billion aggregate principal amount of general mortgage bonds outstanding under the General Mortgage, including (a) approximately $56 million held in trust to secure pollution control bonds that are not reflected on our financial statements because CenterPoint Houston is both the obligor on the bonds and the current owner of the bonds, and (b) approximately $118 million held in trust to secure pollution control bonds for which we are obligated. Additionally, as ofDecember 31, 2015, CenterPoint Houston had approximately $102 million aggregate principal amount of first mortgage bonds outstanding under the Mortgage. CenterPoint Houston may issue additional general mortgage bonds on the basis of retired bonds, 70% of property additions or cash deposited with the trustee. Approximately $4.2 billion of additional first mortgage bonds and general mortgage bonds in the aggregate could be issued on the basis of retired bonds and 70% of property additions as ofDecember 31, 2015. However, CenterPoint Houston has contractually agreed that it will not issue additional first mortgage bonds, subject to certain exceptions.



Electric Lines - Overhead.As ofDecember 31, 2015, CenterPoint Houston owned 28,474 pole miles of overhead distribution lines and 3,723 circuit miles of overhead transmission lines, including 325 circuit miles operated at 69,000 volts, 2,181 circuit miles operated at 138,000 volts and 1,217 circuit miles operated at 345,000 volts.



Electric Lines - Underground.As ofDecember 31, 2015, CenterPoint Houston owned 23,120 circuit miles of underground distribution lines and 26 circuit miles of underground transmission lines, including two circuit miles operated at 69,000 volts and 24 circuit miles operated at 138,000 volts.



Substations.As ofDecember 31, 2015, CenterPoint Houston owned 232 major substation sites having a total installed rated transformer capacity of 58,674 megavolt amperes.



Service Centers.CenterPoint Houston operates 14 regional service centers located on a total of 292 acres of land. These service centers consist of office buildings, warehouses and repair facilities that are used in the business of transmitting and distributing electricity.



Franchises



CenterPoint Houston holds non-exclusive franchises from the incorporated municipalities in its service territory. In exchange for the payment of fees, these franchises give CenterPoint Houston the right to use the streets and public rights-of-way of these municipalities to construct, operate and maintain its transmission and distribution system and to use that system to conduct its electric delivery business and for other purposes that the franchises permit. The terms of the franchises, with various expiration dates, typically range from 20 to 40 years.



Natural Gas Distribution



CERC Corp.’s NGD engages in regulated intrastate natural gas sales to, and natural gas transportation and storage for, approximately 3.4 million residential, commercial, industrial and transportation customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Minnesota, Mississippi, Oklahoma and Texas. The largest metropolitan areas served in each state by NGD are Houston, Texas; Minneapolis, Minnesota; Little Rock, Arkansas; Shreveport, Louisiana; Biloxi, Mississippi; and Lawton, Oklahoma. In 2015, approximately 39% of NGD’s total throughput was to residential customers and approximately 61% was to commercial and industrial and transportation customers.












The table below reflects the number of natural gas distribution customers by state as ofDecember 31, 2015:

ResidentialCommercial/IndustrialTotal CustomersArkansas379,31948,128427,447Louisiana229,87316,917246,790Minnesota770,89169,381840,272Mississippi112,14012,536124,676Oklahoma89,75610,789100,545Texas1,567,86696,1701,664,036Total NGD3,149,845253,9213,403,766



NGD also provides unregulated services in Minnesota consisting of residential appliance repair and maintenance services along with heating, ventilating and air conditioning (HVAC) equipment sales.



Seasonality



The demand for intrastate natural gas sales to residential customers and natural gas sales and transportation for commercial and industrial customers is seasonal. In2015, approximately 68% of the total throughput of NGD’s business occurred in the first and fourth quarters. These patterns reflect the higher demand for natural gas for heating purposes during the colder months.



Supply and Transportation.In2015, NGD purchased virtually all of its natural gas supply pursuant to contracts with remaining terms varying from a few months to four years. Major suppliers in 2015 included BP Energy Company/BP Canada Energy Marketing (18.4% of supply volumes), Tenaska Marketing Ventures (14.5%), Sequent Energy Management (9.0%), ConocoPhillips Company (7.0%), Kinder Morgan Tejas Pipeline/Kinder Morgan Texas Pipeline (6.3%), Twin Eagle Resource Management (3.4%), CenterPoint Energy Services (3.2%), Mieco (3.1%), Oneok Energy Services (2.9%), and Trailstone NA Logistics (2.3%).Numerous other suppliers provided the remaining 30% of NGD’s natural gas supply requirements. NGD transports its natural gas supplies through various intrastate and interstate pipelines under contracts with remaining terms, including extensions, varying from one to eight years. NGD anticipates that these gas supply and transportation contracts will be renewed or replaced prior to their expiration.



NGD actively engages in commodity price stabilization pursuant to annual gas supply plans presented to and/or filed with each of its state regulatory authorities. These price stabilization activities include use of storage gas and contractually establishing structured prices (e.g., fixed price, costless collars and caps) with our physical gas suppliers. Its gas supply plans generally call for 50–75% of winter supplies to be stabilized in some fashion.



The regulations of the states in which NGD operates allow it to pass through changes in the cost of natural gas, including savings and costs of financial derivatives associated with the index-priced physical supply, to its customers under purchased gas adjustment provisions in its tariffs. Depending upon the jurisdiction, the purchased gas adjustment factors are updated periodically, ranging from monthly to semi-annually. The changes in the cost of gas billed to customers are subject to review by the applicable regulatory bodies.



NGD uses various third-party storage services or owned natural gas storage facilities to meet peak-day requirements and to manage the daily changes in demand due to changes in weather and may also supplement contracted supplies and storage from time to time with stored liquefied natural gas and propane-air plant production.



NGD owns and operates an underground natural gas storage facility with a capacity of 7.0 billion cubic feet (Bcf). It has a working capacity of 2.0 Bcf available for use during the heating season and a maximum daily withdrawal rate of 50 million cubic feet (MMcf). It also owns eight propane-air plants with a total production rate of 180,000 Dekatherms (DTH) per day and on-site storage facilities for 12 million gallons of propane (1.0 Bcf natural gas equivalent). It owns a liquefied natural gas plant facility with a 12 million-gallon liquefied natural gas storage tank (1.0 Bcf natural gas equivalent) and a production rate of 72,000 DTH per day.



On an ongoing basis, NGD enters into contracts to provide sufficient supplies and pipeline capacity to meet its customer requirements. However, it is possible for limited service disruptions to occur from time to time due to weather conditions, transportation constraints and other events. As a result of these factors, supplies of natural gas may become unavailable from time to time, or prices may increase rapidly in response to temporary supply constraints or other factors.












NGD has entered into various asset management agreements (AMAs) associated with its utility distribution service in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Oklahoma and Texas.  Generally, these AMAs are contracts between NGD and an asset manager that are intended to transfer the working capital obligation and maximize the utilization of the assets. In these agreements, NGD agreed to release transportation and storage capacity to other parties to manage gas storage, supply and delivery arrangements for NGD and to use the released capacity for other purposes when it is not needed for NGD. NGD is compensated by the asset manager through payments made over the life of the agreements based in part on the results of the asset optimization.  NGD has received approval from the state regulatory commissions in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi and Oklahoma to retain a share of the AMA proceeds. The agreements have varying terms, the longest of which expires in 2019.



Assets



As ofDecember 31, 2015, NGD owned approximately 74,000 linear miles of natural gas distribution mains, varying in size from one-half inch to 24 inches in diameter. Generally, in each of the cities, towns and rural areas served by NGD, it owns the underground gas mains and service lines, metering and regulating equipment located on customers’ premises and the district regulating equipment necessary for pressure maintenance. With a few exceptions, the measuring stations at which NGD receives gas are owned, operated and maintained by others, and its distribution facilities begin at the outlet of the measuring equipment. These facilities, including odorizing equipment, are usually located on land owned by suppliers.



Competition



NGD competes primarily with alternate energy sources such as electricity and other fuel sources. In some areas, intrastate pipelines, other gas distributors and marketers also compete directly for gas sales to end users. In addition, as a result of federal regulations affecting interstate pipelines, natural gas marketers operating on these pipelines may be able to bypass NGD’s facilities and market and sell and/or transport natural gas directly to commercial and industrial customers.



Energy Services



CERC offers variable and fixed-priced physical natural gas supplies primarily to commercial and industrial customers and electric and gas utilities through CenterPoint Energy Services, Inc. (CES) and its subsidiary, CenterPoint Energy Intrastate Pipelines, LLC (CEIP).

In2015, CES marketed approximately 618 Bcf of natural gas, related energy services and transportation to approximately 18,000 customers (including approximately 9 Bcf to affiliates) in 23 states. CES customers vary in size from small commercial customers to large utility companies.

CES offers a variety of natural gas management services to gas utilities, large industrial customers, electric generators, smaller commercial and industrial customers, municipalities, educational institutions and hospitals. These services include load forecasting, supply acquisition, daily swing volume management, invoice consolidation, storage asset management, firm and interruptible transportation administration and forward price management. CES also offers a portfolio of physical delivery services designed to meet customers’ supply and price risk management needs. These customers are served directly, through interconnects with various interstate and intrastate pipeline companies, and portably, through our mobile energy solutions business.



In addition to offering natural gas management services, CES procures and optimizes transportation and storage assets. CES maintains a portfolio of natural gas supply contracts and firm transportation and storage agreements to meet the natural gas requirements of its customers. CES aggregates supply from various producing regions and offers contracts to buy natural gas with terms ranging from one month to over five years. In addition, CES actively participates in the spot natural gas markets in an effort to balance daily and monthly purchases and sales obligations. Natural gas supply and transportation capabilities are leveraged through contracts for ancillary services including physical storage and other balancing arrangements.



As described above, CES offers its customers a variety of load following services. In providing these services, CES uses its customers’ purchase commitments to forecast and arrange its own supply purchases, storage and transportation services to serve customers’ natural gas requirements. As a result of the variance between this forecast activity and the actual monthly activity, CES will either have too much supply or too little supply relative to its customers’ purchase commitments. These supply imbalances arise each month as customers’ natural gas requirements are scheduled and corresponding natural gas supplies are nominated by CES for delivery to those customers. CES’ processes and risk control environment are designed to measure and value imbalances on a real-time basis to ensure that CES’ exposure to commodity price risk is kept to a minimum. The value assigned to these imbalances is calculated daily and is known as the aggregate Value at Risk (VaR).












Our risk control policy, which is overseen by our Risk Oversight Committee (ROC), defines authorized and prohibited trading instruments and trading limits. CES is a physical marketer of natural gas and uses a variety of tools, including pipeline and storage capacity, financial instruments and physical commodity purchase contracts, to support its sales. CES optimizes its use of these various tools to minimize its supply costs and does not engage in proprietary or speculative commodity trading.  The VaR limit within which CES currently operates, a $4 million maximum set by the Board of Directors, is consistent with CES’ operational objective of matching its aggregate sales obligations (including the swing associated with load following services) with its supply portfolio in a manner that minimizes its total cost of supply. In2015, CES’ VaR averaged $0.2 million with a high of $1.0 million.



Assets



CEIP owns and operates over 200 miles of intrastate pipeline in Louisiana and Texas. In addition, CES leases transportation capacity on various interstate and intrastate pipelines and storage to service its shippers and end users.



Competition



CES competes with regional and national wholesale and retail gas marketers, including the marketing divisions of natural gas producers and utilities. In addition, CES competes with intrastate pipelines for customers and services in its market areas.



MidstreamInvestments



In May 2013, we, OGE Energy Corp. (OGE) and affiliates of ArcLight Capital Partners, LLC (ArcLight), formed Enable, initially a private limited partnership.



On April 16, 2014, Enable completed its initial public offering (IPO) of 28,750,000 common units at a price of $20.00 per unit, which included 3,750,000 common units sold by ArcLight pursuant to an over-allotment option that was fully exercised by the underwriters. Enable received $464 million in net proceeds from the sale of the units, after deducting underwriting fees, structuring fees and other offering costs. In connection with Enable’s IPO, a portion of our common units were converted into subordinated units.  As of December 31, 2015, CERC Corp. held an approximate 55.4% limited partner interest in Enable (consisting of 94,151,707 common units and 139,704,916 subordinated units) and OGE held an approximate 26.3% limited partner interest in Enable (consisting of 42,832,291 common units and 68,150,514 subordinated units).  Sales of more than 5% of the aggregate of the common units and subordinated units we own in Enable or sales by OGE of more than 5% of the aggregate of the common units and subordinated units it owns in Enable are subject to mutual rights of first offer and first refusal.



Enable is controlled jointly by CERC Corp. and OGE as each own 50% of the management rights in the general partner of Enable. Sale of our ownership interests in Enable’s general partner to anyone other than an affiliate prior to May 1, 2016 is prohibited by Enable’s general partner’s limited liability company agreement.  Sale of our or OGE’s ownership interests in Enable’s general partner to a third party is subject to mutual rights of first offer and first refusal, and we are not permitted to dispose of less than all of our interest in Enable’s general partner.



As of December 31, 2015, CERC Corp. and OGE also own a 40% and 60% interest, respectively, in the incentive distribution rights held by the general partner of Enable. Enable is expected to pay a minimum quarterly distribution of $0.2875 per unit on its outstanding units to the extent it has sufficient cash from operations after establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses, including payments to its general partner and its affiliates, within 45 days after the end of each quarter. If cash distributions to Enable’s unitholders exceed $0.330625 per unit in any quarter, the general partner will receive increasing percentages or incentive distributions rights, up to 50%, of the cash Enable distributes in excess of that amount. In certain circumstances the general partner of Enable will have the right to reset the minimum quarterly distribution and the target distribution levels at which the incentive distributions receive increasing percentages to higher levels based on Enable’s cash distributions at the time of the exercise of this reset election.



On January 28, 2016, we entered into a purchase agreement with Enable pursuant to which we agreed to purchase in a private placement (Private Placement) an aggregate of 14,520,000 10% Series A Fixed-to-Floating Non-Cumulative Redeemable Perpetual Preferred Units representing limited partner interests in Enable (Series A Preferred Units) for a cash purchase price of $25.00 per Series A Preferred Unit. The Private Placement closed on February 18, 2016. In connection with the Private Placement, Enable redeemed approximately $363 million of notes scheduled to mature in 2017 payable to a wholly-owned subsidiary of CERC Corp.  We used the proceeds from this redemption for our investment in the Series A Preferred Units.



Our investment in Enable is accounted for on an equity basis.  Equity earnings associated with our interest in Enable are reported under the Midstream Investments segment.












Enable.Enable was formed to own, operate and develop strategically located natural gas and crude oil infrastructure assets.   Enable serves current and emerging production areas in the United States, including several unconventional shale resource plays and local and regional end-user markets in the United States. Enable’s assets and operations are organized into two reportable segments: (i) gathering and processing, which primarily provides natural gas gathering, processing and fractionation services and crude oil gathering for its producer customers, and (ii) transportation and storage, which provides interstate and intrastate natural gas pipeline transportation and storage services primarily to natural gas producers, utilities and industrial customers.



Enable’s natural gas gathering and processing assets are located in Oklahoma,Texas, Arkansas, Louisiana and Mississippi and serve natural gas production in the Anadarko, Arkoma and Ark-La-Tex basins. Enable also owns a crude oil gathering business located in North Dakota that commenced initial operations in November 2013 to serve shale development in the Bakken Shale formation of the Williston Basin. Enable’s natural gas transportation and storage assets extend from western Oklahoma and the Texas Panhandle to Alabama and from Louisiana to Illinois.



As of December 31, 2015, Enable’s portfolio of energy infrastructure assets included approximately 12,400 miles of gathering pipelines, 13 major processing plants with approximately 2.3 Bcf per day of processing capacity and 2.3 Bcf per day of treating capacity, approximately 7,900 miles of interstate pipelines (including Southeast Supply Header, LLC (SESH)), approximately 2,200 miles of intrastate pipelines and eight storage facilities providing approximately 85.0 Bcf of storage capacity.



Enable’s Gathering and Processing segment.Enable provides gathering, compression, treating, dehydration, processing and natural gas liquids (NGLs) fractionation for producers who are active in the areas in which Enable operates. Eight of Enable’s processing plants in the Anadarko basin are interconnected through its super-header system. Enable has configured this system to facilitate the flow of natural gas from western Oklahoma and the Wheeler County area in the Texas Panhandle to the Bradley, Cox City, Thomas, McClure, Calumet, Clinton, South Canadian and Wheeler processing plants. Enable is constructing two cryogenic processing facilities to connect to its super-header system in Grady County, Oklahoma and Garvin County, Oklahoma, which are expected to add 400 MMcf per day of natural gas processing capacity. The first of the two new plants (the Bradley II Plant, formerly referred to as the Grady County Plant) is a 200 MMcf per day plant that is expected to be completed in the second quarter of 2016. The second plant (the Wildhorse Plant) is a 200 MMcf per day plant that is expected to be completed in late 2017.  Enable’s super-header system is intended to optimize the economics of its natural gas processing and to improve system utilization and reliability.



Enable’s gathering and processing systems compete with gatherers and processors of all types and sizes, including those affiliated with various producers, other major pipeline companies and various independent midstream entities. In the process of selling NGLs, Enable competes against other natural gas processors extracting and selling NGLs. Enable’s primary competitors are master limited partnerships who are active in the regions where it operates.



Enable’s Transportation and Storage segment.Enable provides fee-based interstate and intrastate transportation and storage services across nine states.  Enable’s transportation and storage assets were designed and built to serve large natural gas and electric utility companies in its areas of operation.  Enable owns and operates approximately 7,900 miles (including SESH) of interstate transportation pipelines with average firm contracted capacity of 7.19 Bcf per day (excluding SESH), for the year ended December 31, 2015. In addition, Enable owns and operates approximately 2,200 miles of intrastate transportation pipelines with average aggregate throughput of 1.84 trillion British thermal units per day for the year ended December 31, 2015. Enable also owns eight natural gas storage facilities with approximately 85.0 Bcf of aggregate capacity and approximately 1.9 Bcf per day of aggregate daily deliverability as of December 31, 2015. In addition, Enable owns an 8% contractual interest in Gulf South’s Bistineau storage facility located in Bienville Parish, Louisiana, with 8.0 Bcf of capacity and 100 MMcf per day of deliverability as of December 31, 2015. Enable also contracts on a firm basis for 3.3 Bcf of high deliverability salt dome storage capacity from Cardinal in the Perryville and Arcadia natural gas storage fields. Enable’s storage operations are located in Louisiana, Oklahoma and Illinois.



Enable’s interstate pipelines compete with other interstate and intrastate pipelines. Enable’s intrastate pipeline system competes with numerous interstate and intrastate pipelines, including several of the interconnected pipelines discussed above, as well as other natural gas storage facilities. The principal elements of competition among pipelines are rates, terms of service, and flexibility and reliability of service.



SESH.SESH owns an approximately 290-mile interstate pipeline that runs from Perryville, Louisiana to southwestern Alabama near the Gulf Coast. The pipeline was placed into service in the third quarter of 2008. The rates charged by SESH for interstate transportation services are regulated by the FERC.  During the year ended December 31, 2015, an average of approximately 1.5 Bcf per day was transported on this system.












On each of May 1, 2013 and May 30, 2014, we contributed a 24.95% interest in SESH to Enable.  On June 30, 2015, we contributed our remaining 0.1% interest in SESH to Enable.  The remaining 50% of SESH is owned by Spectra Energy Partners, LP.



Other Operations



Our Other Operations business segment includes office buildings and other real estate used in our business operations and other corporate operations that support all of our business operations.



Financial Information About Segments



For financial information about our segments, see Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements, which note is incorporated herein by reference.





REGULATION



We are subject to regulation by various federal, state and local governmental agencies, including the regulations described below.



Federal Energy Regulatory Commission



The FERC has jurisdiction under the Natural Gas Act and the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978, as amended, to regulate the transportation of natural gas in interstate commerce and natural gas sales for resale in interstate commerce that are not first sales. The FERC regulates, among other things, the construction of pipeline and related facilities used in the transportation and storage of natural gas in interstate commerce, including the extension, expansion or abandonment of these facilities. The FERC has authority to prohibit market manipulation in connection with FERC-regulated transactions and to impose significant civil and criminal penalties for statutory violations and violations of the FERC’s rules or orders. Our Energy Services business segment markets natural gas in interstate commerce pursuant to blanket authority granted by the FERC.



CenterPoint Houston is not a “public utility” under the Federal Power Act and, therefore, is not generally regulated by the FERC, although certain of its transactions are subject to limited FERC jurisdiction. The FERC has certain responsibilities with respect to ensuring the reliability of electric transmission service, including transmission facilities owned by CenterPoint Houston and other utilities within ERCOT. The FERC has designated the NERC as the Electric Reliability Organization (ERO) to promulgate standards, under FERC oversight, for all owners, operators and users of the bulk power system (Electric Entities). The ERO and the FERC have authority to (a) impose fines and other sanctions on Electric Entities that fail to comply with approved standards and (b) audit compliance with approved standards. The FERC has approved the delegation by the NERC of authority for reliability in ERCOT to the TRE. CenterPoint Houston does not anticipate that the reliability standards proposed by the NERC and approved by the FERC will have a material adverse impact on its operations. To the extent that CenterPoint Houston is required to make additional expenditures to comply with these standards, it is anticipated that CenterPoint Houston will seek to recover those costs through the transmission charges that are imposed on all distribution service providers within ERCOT for electric transmission provided.



As a public utility holding company, under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005, we and our consolidated subsidiaries are subject to reporting and accounting requirements and are required to maintain certain books and records and make them available for review by the FERC and state regulatory authorities in certain circumstances.



State and Local Regulation – Electric Transmission & Distribution



CenterPoint Houston conducts its operations pursuant to a certificate of convenience and necessity issued by the Texas Utility Commission that covers its present service area and facilities. The Texas Utility Commission and certain municipalities have the authority to set the rates and terms of service provided by CenterPoint Houston under cost-of-service rate regulation. CenterPoint Houston holds non-exclusive franchises from certain incorporated municipalities in its service territory. In exchange for payment of fees, these franchises give CenterPoint Houston the right to use the streets and public rights-of-way of these municipalities to construct, operate and maintain its transmission and distribution system and to use that system to conduct its electric delivery business and for other purposes that the franchises permit. The terms of the franchises, with various expiration dates, typically range from 20 to 40 years.



CenterPoint Houston’s distribution rates charged to REPs for residential customers are primarily based on amounts of energy delivered, whereas distribution rates for a majority of commercial and industrial customers are primarily based on peak demand.










All REPs in CenterPoint Houston’s service area pay the same rates and other charges for transmission and distribution services. This regulated delivery charge includes the transmission and distribution rate (which includes municipal franchise fees), a distribution recovery mechanism for recovery of incremental distribution-invested capital above that which is already reflected in the base distribution rate, a nuclear decommissioning charge associated with decommissioning the South Texas nuclear generating facility, an energy efficiency cost recovery charge, a surcharge related to the implementation of AMS and charges associated with securitization of regulatory assets, stranded costs and restoration costs relating to Hurricane Ike. Transmission rates charged to distribution companies are based on amounts of energy transmitted under “postage stamp” rates that do not vary with the distance the energy is being transmitted. All distribution companies in ERCOT pay CenterPoint Houston the same rates and other charges for transmission services.



For a discussion of certain of CenterPoint Houston’s ongoing regulatory proceedings, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Regulatory Matters — CenterPoint Houston” in Item 7 of Part II of this report, which discussion is incorporated herein by reference.



State and Local Regulation – Natural Gas Distribution



In almost all communities in which NGD provides natural gas distribution services, it operates under franchises, certificates or licenses obtained from state and local authorities. The original terms of the franchises, with various expiration dates, typically range from 10 to 30 years, although franchises in Arkansas are perpetual. NGD expects to be able to renew expiring franchises. In most cases, franchises to provide natural gas utility services are not exclusive.



Substantially all of NGD is subject to cost-of-service rate regulation by the relevant state public utility commissions and, in Texas, by the Railroad Commission of Texas (Railroad Commission) and those municipalities served by NGD that have retained original jurisdiction.  In certain of its jurisdictions, NGD has in effect annual rate adjustment mechanisms that provide for changes in rates dependent upon certain changes in invested capital, earned returns on equity or actual margins realized.



For a discussion of certain of NGD’s ongoing regulatory proceedings, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Regulatory Matters — CERC” in Item 7 of Part II of this report, which discussion is incorporated herein by reference.



Department of Transportation

In December 2006, Congress enacted the Pipeline Inspection, Protection, Enforcement and Safety Act of 2006 (2006 Act), which reauthorized the programs adopted under the Pipeline Safety Improvement Act of 2002 (2002 Act).  These programs included several requirements related to ensuring pipeline safety, and a requirement to assess the integrity of pipeline transmission facilities in areas of high population concentration.



Pursuant to the 2006 Act, the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA) at the Department of Transportation (DOT) issued regulations, effective February 12, 2010, requiring operators of gas distribution pipelines to develop and implement integrity management programs similar to those required for gas transmission pipelines, but tailored to reflect the differences in distribution pipelines. Operators of natural gas distribution systems were required to write and implement their integrity management programs by August 2, 2011.  Our natural gas distribution systems met this deadline.



Pursuant to the 2002 Act and the 2006 Act, PHMSA has adopted a number of rules concerning, among other things, distinguishing between gathering lines and transmission facilities, requiring certain design and construction features in new and replaced lines to reduce corrosion and requiring pipeline operators to amend existing written operations and maintenance procedures and operator qualification programs.  PHMSA also updated its reporting requirements for natural gas pipelines effective January 1, 2011.



In December 2011, Congress passed the Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty, and Job Creation Act of 2011 (2011 Act). This act increases the maximum civil penalties for pipeline safety administrative enforcement actions; requires the DOT to study and report on the expansion of integrity management requirements and the sufficiency of existing gathering line regulations to ensure safety; requires pipeline operators to verify their records on maximum allowable operating pressure; and imposes new emergency response and incident notification requirements.



We anticipate that compliance with PHMSA’s regulations, performance of the remediation activities by CERC’s natural gas distribution companies and intrastate pipelines and verification of records on maximum allowable operating pressure will require increases in both capital expenditures and operating costs. The level of expenditures will depend upon several factors, including age, location and operating pressures of the facilities. In particular, the cost of compliance with DOT’s integrity management rules










will depend on integrity testing and the repairs found to be necessary by such testing. Changes to the amount of pipe subject to integrity management, whether by expansion of the definition of the type of areas subject to integrity management procedures or of the applicability of such procedures outside of those defined areas, may also affect the costs we incur. Implementation of the 2011 Act by PHMSA may result in other regulations or the reinterpretation of existing regulations that could impact our compliance costs. In addition, we may be subject to DOT’s enforcement actions and penalties if we fail to comply with pipeline regulations.  Please also see the discussion under “— Midstream Investments — Safety and Health Regulation” below.



Midstream Investments – Rate and Other Regulation



Federal, state, and local regulation of pipeline gathering and transportation services may affect certain aspects of Enable’s business and the market for its products and services.



Interstate Natural Gas Pipeline Regulation



Enable’s interstate pipeline systems — Enable Gas Transmission, LLC (EGT), Enable-Mississippi River Transmission, LLC (MRT) and SESH — are subject to regulation by the FERC under the Natural Gas Act of 1938 (NGA) and are considered natural gas companies. Natural gas companies may not charge rates that have been determined to be unjust or unreasonable by the FERC. In addition, the FERC prohibits natural gas companies from unduly preferring or unreasonably discriminating against any person with respect to pipeline rates or terms and conditions of service. Under the NGA, the rates for service on Enable’s interstate facilities must be just and reasonable and not unduly discriminatory. Generally, the maximum filed recourse rates for interstate pipelines are based on the pipeline’s cost of service including recovery of and a return on the pipeline’s actual prudent investment cost. Key determinants in the ratemaking process are costs of providing service, allowed rate of return, volume throughput and contractual capacity commitment assumptions. Enable’s interstate pipelines business operations may be affected by changes in the demand for natural gas, the available supply and relative price of natural gas in the Mid-continent and Gulf Coast natural gas supply regions and general economic conditions. Tariff changes can only be implemented upon approval by the FERC.



Market Behavior Rules; Posting and Reporting Requirements





Intrastate Natural Gas Pipeline and Storage Regulation



Enable’s transmission lines are subject to state regulation of rates and terms of service. In Oklahoma, its intrastate pipeline system is subject to regulation by the Oklahoma Corporation Commission. Oklahoma has a non-discriminatory access requirement, which is subject to a complaint-based review. In Illinois, Enable’s intrastate pipeline system is subject to regulation by the Illinois Commerce Commission.



Intrastate natural gas transportation is largely regulated by the state in which the transportation takes place. An intrastate natural gas pipeline system may transport natural gas in interstate commerce provided that the rates, terms, and conditions of such transportation service comply with FERC regulation and Section 311 of the NGPA and Part 284 of the FERC’s regulations. The NGPA regulates, among other things, the provision of transportation and storage services by an intrastate natural gas pipeline on behalf of an interstate natural gas pipeline or a local distribution company served by an interstate natural gas pipeline. Under Section 311, rates charged for transportation must be fair and equitable, and amounts collected in excess of fair and equitable rates are subject to refund with interest. The rates under Section 311 are maximum rates and Enable may negotiate contractual rates at










or below such maximum rates. Rates for service pursuant to Section 311 of the NGPA are generally subject to review and approval by the FERC at least once every five years. Should the FERC determine not to authorize rates equal to or greater than Enable’s currently approved Section 311 rates, its business may be adversely affected.



Failure to observe the service limitations applicable to transportation services provided under Section 311, failure to comply with the rates approved by the FERC for Section 311 service, or failure to comply with the terms and conditions of service established in the pipeline’s FERC-approved Statement of Operating Conditions could result in the assertion of federal NGA jurisdiction by the FERC and/or the imposition of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, as described under  “— Interstate Natural Gas Pipeline Regulation” above.



Natural Gas Gathering Pipeline Regulation





States may regulate gathering pipelines. State regulation of gathering facilities generally includes various safety, environmental and, in some circumstances, requirements prohibiting undue discrimination, and in some instances complaint-based rate regulation. Enable’s gathering operations may be subject to ratable take and common purchaser statutes in the states in which they operate. These statutes are designed to prohibit discrimination in favor of one producer over another producer or one source of supply over another source of supply and have the effect of restricting Enable’s right as an owner of gathering facilities to decide with whom it contracts to purchase or transport natural gas.



Enable’s gathering operations could be adversely affected should they be subject in the future to the application of state or federal regulation of rates and services. Enable’s gathering operations could also be subject to additional safety and operational regulations relating to the design, construction, testing, operation, replacement and maintenance of gathering facilities. Additional rules and legislation pertaining to these matters are considered or adopted from time to time. We cannot predict what effect, if any, such changes might have on Enable’s operations, but the industry could be required to incur additional capital expenditures and increased costs depending on future legislative and regulatory changes.



Crude Oil Gathering Regulation





For some time now, the FERC has been issuing regulatory assurances that necessarily balance the anti-discrimination and undue preference requirements of common carriage with the expectations of investors in new and expanding petroleum pipelines. There is an inherent tension between the requirements imposed upon a common carrier and the need for owners of petroleum










pipelines to be able to enter into long-term, firm contracts with shippers willing to make the commitments which underpin such large capital investments. The FERC’s solution has been to allow carriers to hold an “open season” prior to the in-service date of pipeline, during which time interested shippers can make commitments to the proposed pipeline project. Throughput commitments from interested shippers during an open season can be for firm service or for non-firm service. Typically, such an open season is for a 30-day period, must be publicly announced, and culminates in interested parties entering into transportation agreements with the carrier. Under FERC precedent, a carrier typically may reserve up to 90% of available capacity for the provision of firm service to shippers making a commitment. At least 10% of capacity ordinarily is reserved for “walk-up” shippers.



Midstream Investments – Safety and Health Regulation







ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS



Our operations and the operations of Enable are subject to stringent and complex laws and regulations pertaining to the environment. As an owner or operator of natural gas pipelines, distribution systems and storage, electric transmission and distribution systems, and the facilities that support these systems, we must comply with these laws and regulations at the federal, state and local levels. These laws and regulations can restrict or impact our business activities in many ways, such as:



•restricting the way we can handle or dispose of wastes;



•limiting or prohibiting construction activities in sensitive areas such as wetlands, coastal regions or areas inhabited by endangered species;



•requiring remedial action to mitigate environmental conditions caused by our operations or attributable to former operations;



•enjoining the operations of facilities with permits issued pursuant to such environmental laws and regulations; and



•impacting the demand for our services by directly or indirectly affecting the use or price of natural gas.



In order to comply with these requirements, we may need to spend substantial amounts and devote other resources from time to time to, among other activities:



•construct or acquire new facilities and equipment;



•acquire permits for facility operations;



•modify, upgrade or replace existing and proposed equipment; and



•clean or decommission waste disposal areas, fuel storage and management facilities and other locations and facilities.












Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may trigger a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the assessment of monetary penalties, the imposition of remedial actions and the issuance of orders enjoining future operations. Certain environmental statutes impose strict, joint and several liability for costs required to clean up and restore sites where hazardous substances have been stored, disposed or released. Moreover, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the release of hazardous substances or other waste products into the environment.



The recent trend in environmental regulation has been to place more restrictions and limitations on activities that may affect the environment.  For example, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has also established air emission control requirements for natural gas and NGL production, processing and transportation activities, which may affect Enable’s midstream operations. These include New Source Performance Standards to address emissions of sulfur dioxide and volatile organic compounds, and the National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants (NESHAPS) to address hazardous air pollutants frequently associated with natural gas production and processing activities. There can be no assurance as to the amount or timing of future expenditures for environmental compliance or remediation, and actual future expenditures may be different from the amounts we currently anticipate. We try to anticipate future regulatory requirements that might be imposed and plan accordingly to maintain compliance with changing environmental laws and regulations and to ensure the costs of such compliance are reasonable.



Based on current regulatory requirements and interpretations, we do not believe that compliance with federal, state or local environmental laws and regulations will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, we believe that our current environmental remediation activities will not materially interrupt or diminish our operational ability. We cannot assure you that future events, such as changes in existing laws, the promulgation of new laws, or the development or discovery of new facts or conditions will not cause us to incur significant costs. The following is a discussion of material current environmental and safety laws and regulations that relate to our operations. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with these environmental laws and regulations.



Global Climate Change





To the extent climate changes occur, our businesses may be adversely impacted, though we believe any such impacts are likely to occur very gradually and hence would be difficult to quantify.  To the extent global climate change results in warmer temperatures in our service territories, financial results from our natural gas distribution business could be adversely affected through lower gas sales. On the other hand, warmer temperatures in our electric service territory may increase our revenues from transmission and distribution through increased demand for electricity for cooling.  Another possible effect of climate change is more frequent and more severe weather events, such as hurricanes or tornadoes.  Since many of our facilities are located along or near the Gulf Coast, increased or more severe hurricanes or tornadoes could increase our costs to repair damaged facilities and restore service to our customers. When we cannot deliver electricity or natural gas to customers, or our customers cannot receive our services, our financial results can be impacted by lost revenues, and we generally must seek approval from regulators to recover restoration costs.  To the extent we are unable to recover those costs, or if higher rates resulting from our recovery of such costs result in reduced demand for our services, our future financial results may be adversely impacted.












Air Emissions



Our operations are subject to the federal Clean Air Act and comparable state laws and regulations. These laws and regulations regulate emissions of air pollutants from various industrial sources, including processing plants and compressor stations, and also impose various monitoring and reporting requirements. Such laws and regulations may require pre-approval for the construction or modification of certain projects or facilities expected to produce air emissions or result in the increase of existing air emissions.  We may be required to obtain and strictly comply with air permits containing various emissions and operational limitations, or utilize specific emission control technologies to limit emissions. Failure to comply with these requirements could result in monetary penalties, injunctions, conditions or restrictions on operations, and potentially criminal enforcement actions. We may be required to incur certain capital expenditures in the future for air pollution control equipment in connection with obtaining and maintaining operating permits and approvals for air emissions.



The EPA has established new air emission control requirements for natural gas and natural gas liquids production, processing and transportation activities. Under the NESHAPS, the EPA established maximum achievable control technology for stationary internal combustion engines (sometimes referred to as the RICE MACT rule). Compressors and back up electrical generators used by our Natural Gas Distribution segment, and back up electrical generators used by our Electric Transmission & Distribution segment, are substantially compliant with these laws and regulations.



Water Discharges



Our operations are subject to the Federal Water Pollution Control Act of 1972, as amended, also known as the Clean Water Act, and analogous state laws and regulations. These laws and regulations impose detailed requirements and strict controls regarding the discharge of pollutants into waters of the United States. The unpermitted discharge of pollutants, including discharges resulting from a spill or leak incident, is prohibited. The Clean Water Act and regulations implemented thereunder also prohibit discharges of dredged and fill material in wetlands and other waters of the United States unless authorized by an appropriately issued permit. Any unpermitted release of petroleum or other pollutants from our pipelines or facilities could result in fines or penalties as well as significant remedial obligations.



Hazardous Waste



Our operations generate wastes, including some hazardous wastes, that are subject to the federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), and comparable state laws, which impose detailed requirements for the handling, storage, treatment, transport and disposal of hazardous and solid waste. RCRA currently exempts many natural gas gathering and field processing wastes from classification as hazardous waste. Specifically, RCRA excludes from the definition of hazardous waste waters produced and other wastes associated with the exploration, development or production of crude oil and natural gas. However, these oil and gas exploration and production wastes are still regulated under state law and the less stringent non-hazardous waste requirements of RCRA. Moreover, ordinary industrial wastes such as paint wastes, waste solvents, laboratory wastes and waste compressor oils may be regulated as hazardous waste. The transportation of natural gas in pipelines may also generate some hazardous wastes that would be subject to RCRA or comparable state law requirements.



Liability for Remediation



The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended (CERCLA), also known as “Superfund,” and comparable state laws impose liability, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct, on certain classes of persons responsible for the release of hazardous substances into the environment. Such classes of persons include the current and past owners or operators of sites where a hazardous substance was released and companies that disposed or arranged for the disposal of hazardous substances at offsite locations such as landfills. Although petroleum, as well as natural gas, is excluded from CERCLA’s definition of a “hazardous substance,” in the course of our ordinary operations we generate wastes that may fall within the definition of a “hazardous substance.” CERCLA authorizes the EPA and, in some cases, third parties to take action in response to threats to the public health or the environment and to seek to recover from the responsible classes of persons the costs they incur. Under CERCLA, we could be subject to joint and several liability for the costs of cleaning up and restoring sites where hazardous substances have been released, for damages to natural resources, and for the costs of certain health studies.



Liability for Preexisting Conditions



Manufactured Gas Plant Sites.CERC and its predecessors operated manufactured gas plants (MGPs) in the past. With respect to certain Minnesota MGP sites, CERC has completed state-ordered remediation and continues state-ordered monitoring and water treatment.  As ofDecember 31, 2015, CERC had a recorded liability of$7 millionfor continued monitoring and any future remediation required by regulators in Minnesota. The estimated range of possible remediation costs for the sites for which CERC










believes it may have responsibility was$5 millionto$29 millionbased on remediation continuing for30to50years. The cost estimates are based on studies of a site or industry average costs for remediation of sites of similar size. The actual remediation costs will depend on the number of sites to be remediated, the participation of other potentially responsible parties (PRPs), if any, and the remediation methods used.



In addition to the Minnesota sites, the EPA and other regulators have investigated MGP sites that were owned or operated by CERC or may have been owned by one of its former affiliates. We do not expect the ultimate outcome of these matters to have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows of either us or CERC.



Asbestos.Some facilities owned by us contain or have contained asbestos insulation and other asbestos-containing materials. We or our subsidiaries have been named, along with numerous others, as defendants in lawsuits filed by a number of individuals who claim injury due to exposure to asbestos. Some of the claimants have worked at locations owned by us, but most existing claims relate to facilities previously owned by our subsidiaries.  In 2004, we sold our generating business, to which most of these claims relate, to a company which is now an affiliate of NRG. Under the terms of the arrangements regarding separation of the generating business from us and our sale of that business, ultimate financial responsibility for uninsured losses from claims relating to the generating business has been assumed by the NRG affiliate, but we have agreed to continue to defend such claims to the extent they are covered by insurance maintained by us, subject to reimbursement of the costs of such defense by the NRG affiliate. We anticipate that additional claims like those received may be asserted in the future.  Although their ultimate outcome cannot be predicted at this time, we intend to continue vigorously contesting claims that we do not consider to have merit and do not expect, based on our experience to date, these matters, either individually or in the aggregate, to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.



Other Environmental.From time to time we identify the presence of environmental contaminants on property where we conduct or have conducted operations.  Other such sites involving contaminants may be identified in the future.  We have remediated and expect to continue to remediate identified sites consistent with our legal obligations. From time to time we have received notices from regulatory authorities or others regarding our status as a PRP in connection with sites found to require remediation due to the presence of environmental contaminants. In addition, we have been named from time to time as a defendant in litigation related to such sites. Although the ultimate outcome of such matters cannot be predicted at this time, we do not expect, based on our experience to date, these matters, either individually or in the aggregate, to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.





EMPLOYEES



As ofDecember 31, 2015, we had7,505full-time employees.  The following table sets forth the number of our employees by business segment as ofDecember 31, 2015:

Business SegmentNumberNumberRepresentedby CollectiveBargaining GroupsElectric Transmission & Distribution2,6651,349Natural Gas Distribution3,2861,173Energy Services135—Other Operations1,419110Total7,5052,632



As ofDecember 31, 2015, approximately 35% of our employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. The collective bargaining agreement with the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers Local 66 and the two collective bargaining agreements with Professional Employees International Union Local 12, which collectively cover approximately 21% of our employees, are scheduled to expire in March and May of 2016. We believe we have good relationships with these bargaining units and expect to negotiate new agreements in 2016.














EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

(as of February 12, 2016)

NameAgeTitleMilton Carroll65Executive ChairmanScott M. Prochazka49President and Chief Executive Officer and DirectorWilliam D. Rogers55Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerTracy B. Bridge57Executive Vice President and President, Electric DivisionJoseph B. McGoldrick62Executive Vice President and President, Gas DivisionDana C. O’Brien48Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate SecretarySue B. Ortenstone58Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer



Milton Carrollhas served on the Board of Directors of CenterPoint Energy or its predecessors since 1992.  He has served as Executive Chairman of CenterPoint Energy since June 2013 and as Chairman from September 2002 until May 2013. Mr. Carroll has served as a director of Halliburton Company since 2006, Western Gas Holdings, LLC, the general partner of Western Gas Partners, LP, since 2008 and LyondellBasell Industries N.V. since July 2010. He has served as a director of Healthcare Service Corporation since 1998 and as its chairman since 2002.  He previously served as a director of LRE GP, LLC, general partner of LRR Energy, L.P., from November 2011 to January 2014.



Scott M. Prochazkahas served as a Director and President and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of CenterPoint Energy since January 1, 2014.  He previously served as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer from July 2012 to December 2013; as Senior Vice President and Division President, Electric Operations from May 2011 through July 2012; as Division Senior Vice President, Electric Operations of CenterPoint Houston from February 2009 to May 2011; as Division Senior Vice President Regional Operations of CERC from February 2008 to February 2009; and as Division Vice President, Customer Service Operations from October 2006 to February 2008.  He currently serves on the Boards of Directors of Enable GP, LLC, the general partner of Enable Midstream Partners, LP, Gridwise Alliance, Edison Electric Institute, American Gas Association, Greater Houston Partnership and Junior Achievement of South Texas.



William D. Rogershas served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of CenterPoint Energy since March 2015.  He previously served as Executive Vice President, Finance and Accounting from February 2015 to March 2015. Prior to joining CenterPoint Energy, Mr. Rogers was Vice President and Treasurer of American Water Works Company, Inc., the largest publicly traded U.S. water and wastewater utility company, from October 2010 to January 2015. Mr. Rogers was also the Chief Financial Officer of NV Energy, Inc., an investor-owned utility headquartered in Las Vegas serving approximately 1.5 million electric and gas customers in Nevada and with annual revenues of approximately $3.0 billion, from February 2007 to February 2010. He has previously served as NV Energy’s vice president of finance, risk and tax, as well as corporate treasurer.  Before joining NV Energy in June 2005, Mr. Rogers was a managing director in capital markets at Merrill Lynch and prior to that in a similar role at JPMorgan Chase in New York. He currently serves on the Board of Directors of Enable GP, LLC, the general partner of Enable Midstream Partners, LP.



Tracy B. Bridgehas served as Executive Vice President and President, Electric Division since February 2014.  He previously served as Senior Vice President and Division President, Electric Operations from September 2012 to February 2014; as Senior Vice President and Division President, Gas Distribution Operations from May 2011 to September 2012; as Division Senior Vice President - Support Operations from February 2008 to May 2011; and as Division Vice President Regional Operations of CERC from January 2007 to February 2008.  He currently serves on the Board of Directors of Rebuilding Together Houston.



Joseph B. McGoldrickhas served as Executive Vice President and President, Gas Division since February 2014.  He previously served as Senior Vice President and Division President, Gas Operations from September 2012 to February 2014; as Senior Vice President and Division President, Energy Services from May 2011 to September 2012, and as Division President, Gas Operations from February 2007 to May 2011.  Mr. McGoldrick is a member of the American Gas Association’s Leadership Council.



Dana C. O’Brienhas served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of CenterPoint Energy since May 2014.  Before joining CenterPoint Energy, Ms. O’Brien was Chief Legal Officer and Chief Compliance Officer and a member of the executive board at CEVA Logistics, a Dutch-based logistics company, from August 2007 to April 2014.  She previously served as the general counsel at EGL, Inc. from October 2005 to July 2007 and Quanta Services, Inc. from January 2001 to October 2005. Ms. O’Brien serves as a director for the Association of Women Attorneys Foundation, a member of the Board of Directors of Ronald McDonald House Houston and as a member of the Board of Directors of Child Advocates, Inc.














Sue B. Ortenstonehas served as Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer of CenterPoint Energy since February 2014. Prior to joining CenterPoint Energy, Ms. Ortenstone was Senior Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer at Copano Energy from July 2012 to May 2013. Before joining Copano, she spent more than 30 years at El Paso Corporation and served most recently as Senior Vice President and then Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer from November 2003 to May 2012. Ms. Ortenstone serves on the Advisory Board for Civil and Environmental Engineering, as well as the Industrial Advisory Board in the College of Engineering at the University of Wisconsin. She also serves on the Board of Trustees for Northwest Assistance Ministries of Houston.





