ITEM 1.BUSINESS

Cautionary Statement
Regarding Forward-Looking Statements

For a discussion of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements, see
“Part I, Item 1A—Risk Factors” and the “Financial Condition” section set forth in “Part II, Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” or
MD&A,







beginning on page 39 below and such other risks and uncertainties as set forth below in this report or detailed in our other Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) reports and filings. We
assume no obligation to update forward-looking statements.

General

We are a global semiconductor company with facilities around the world. Within the global semiconductor industry, we offer primarily:



(i)x86 microprocessors, for the commercial and consumer markets, embedded microprocessors for commercial, commercial client and consumer markets and chipsets for desktop
and notebook PCs, professional workstations and servers; and



(ii)graphics, video and multimedia products for desktop and notebook computers, including home media PCs, professional workstations and servers and technology for game
consoles.

For financial information about geographic areas and for segment information with respect to revenues
and operating results, refer to the information set forth in Note 13 of our consolidated financial statements, beginning on page 111 below.

Additional Information

We were incorporated under the laws of Delaware on
May 1, 1969 and became a publicly held company in 1972. Since 1979 our common stock has been listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “AMD.” Our mailing address and executive offices are located at One AMD Place,
Sunnyvale, California 94088, and our telephone number is (408) 749-4000. References in this report to “AMD,” “we,” “us,” “management,” “our,” or the “Company” means Advanced Micro
Devices, Inc. and our consolidated subsidiaries.

AMD, the AMD Arrow logo, ATI, the ATI logo, AMD Athlon, AMD Opteron, AMD
Phenom, AMD Sempron, AMD Turion, FirePro, FireStream, FireMV, CrossFire, Radeon, and combinations thereof are trademarks of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Microsoft, Windows, Windows Vista, and DirectX are registered trademarks of Microsoft
Corporation in the United States and/or other jurisdictions. HyperTransport is a licensed trademark of the HyperTransport Technology Consortium. Other names are for informational purposes only and may be trademarks of their respective owners.

Website Access to Company Reports and Corporate Governance Documents

We post on the Investor Relations pages of our Web site,www.amd.com, a link to our filings with the SEC, our Principles of
Corporate Governance, our Code of Ethics for our Executive Officers and all other senior finance executives, our “Worldwide Standards of Business Conduct,” which applies to our Board of Directors and all of our employees, and the charters
of our Audit and Finance, Compensation and Nominating and Corporate Governance committees of our Board of Directors. Our filings with the SEC are posted as soon as reasonably practical after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the
SEC. You can also obtain copies of these documents by writing to us at: Corporate Secretary, AMD, 7171 Southwest Parkway, M/S 100, Austin, Texas 78735, or emailing us at:Corporate.Secretary@amd.com. All of these documents and filings are
available free of charge. Please note that information contained on our Web site is not incorporated by reference in, or considered to be a part of, this report.

Our Industry

Semiconductors are components used in a variety of electronic
products and systems. An integrated circuit, or IC, is a semiconductor device that consists of many interconnected transistors on a single chip. Since the invention of the transistor in 1948, improvements in IC process and design technologies have
led to the







development of smaller, more complex and more reliable ICs at a lower cost per function. In order to satisfy the demand for faster, smaller and lower-cost ICs, semiconductor companies have
continually developed improvements in manufacturing and process technology and design. ICs are increasingly being manufactured using smaller geometries on larger silicon wafers. Use of smaller process geometries can result in products that are
higher performing, use less power and cost less to manufacture on a per unit basis.

Computing Solutions

The x86 Microprocessor Market

A microprocessor is an IC that serves as the central processing unit, or CPU, of a computer. It generally consists of millions of transistors that process data and control other devices in the system,
acting as the brain of the computer. The performance of a microprocessor is a critical factor impacting the performance of a computer and numerous other electronic systems. The principal indicators of CPU performance are work-per-cycle, or how many
instructions are executed per cycle, clock speed, representing the rate at which a CPU’s internal logic operates, measured in units of hertz, or cycles per second, and power consumption. Other factors impacting microprocessor performance
include the number of CPUs, or cores, on a microprocessor, the bit rating of the microprocessor, memory size and data access speed.

Developments in circuit design and manufacturing process technologies have resulted in significant advances in microprocessor performance. Currently, microprocessors are designed to process 32-bits or
64-bits of information at one time. The bit rating of a microprocessor generally denotes the largest size of numerical data that a microprocessor can handle. Microprocessors with 64-bit processing capabilities enable systems to have greater
performance by allowing software applications and operating systems to access more memory.

Moreover, as businesses and
consumers require greater performance from their computer systems due to the growth of digital data and increasingly sophisticated software applications, semiconductor companies are designing and developing multi-core microprocessors, where multiple
processor cores are placed on a single die or in a single processor. Multi-core microprocessors offer enhanced overall system performance and efficiency because computing tasks can be spread across two or more processing cores each of which can
execute a task at full speed. Moreover, multiple processor cores packaged together can increase performance of a computer system without greatly increasing the total amount of power consumed and the total amount of heat emitted. This type of
“symmetrical multiprocessing” is effective in both multi-tasking environments where multiple cores can enable operating systems to prioritize and manage tasks from multiple software applications simultaneously and also for
“multi-threaded” software applications where multiple cores can process different parts of the software program, or “threads,” simultaneously thereby enhancing performance of the application. Businesses and consumers also require
computer systems with improved power management technology, which allows them to reduce the power consumption of their computer systems thereby reducing the total cost of ownership.

While general purpose computer architectures based on the x86 architecture are sufficient for many customers, for selected applications,
an architecture that enables the ideal resource to be used for a given workload can provide a substantial improvement in user experience, performance and energy efficiency. In this environment, we believe an accelerated computing architecture can
benefit customers. An accelerated computing architecture enables “offloading” of selected tasks, thereby optimizing the use of multiple computational units such as the CPU and graphics processing unit, or GPU, depending on the application
or workload. For example, serial workloads are better suited for CPUs, while highly parallel tasks may be better performed by a GPU. Our AMD Fusion Accelerated Processing Unit, or APU, combines our CPU and GPU onto a single piece of silicon. We
believe that high performance computing workloads, workloads that are visual in nature and even traditional applications such as photo and video editing or other multi-media applications can benefit from our accelerated computing architecture.







Microprocessor Products

We currently offer microprocessor products for servers, notebooks and desktop PCs and other consumer devices. We base our microprocessors
and chipsets on the x86 instruction set architecture and AMD’s Direct Connect Architecture, which connects an on-chip memory controller and input/output, or I/O, channels directly to one or more microprocessor cores. We typically integrate two
or more processor cores onto a single die, and each core has its own dedicated cache, which is memory that is located on the semiconductor die, permitting quicker access to frequently used data and instructions. Some of our microprocessors have
additional levels of cache such as L2, or second level cache, and L3, or third level cache, to enable faster data access and higher performance. In March 2010, we launched Direct Connect Architecture 2.0 as part of the AMD Opteron™ 6000 Series
platform. Direct Connect Architecture 2.0 is designed to improve performance as memory is accessed more directly, resulting in increased bandwidth and reduced memory latencies.

Our processors and chipsets support multiple generations of HyperTransport™ technology, which is a
high-bandwidth communications interface that enables higher levels of multi-processor performance and scalability over traditional front side bus-based microprocessor technology. Energy efficiency and power consumption continue to be key design
principles for our products. We focus on continually improving power management technology, or “performance-per-watt.” To that end, we offer processors and chipsets with features that we have designed to reduce system level energy
consumption, with multiple levels of lower clock speed and voltage states that reduce processor power consumption during idle times. We design our microprocessors to be compatible with operating system software such as the Microsoft®Windows®family of operating systems,
Linux®, NetWare®, Solaris and UNIX.

Our microprocessors and
chipsets are incorporated into computing platforms that also include GPUs and core software. A platform is a collection of technologies that are designed to work together to provide a more complete computing solution. We believe that integrated,
balanced platforms consisting of CPUs, GPUs, and chipsets that work together at the system level bring end users improved system stability, increased performance and enhanced power efficiency. Also, by offering our customers an all-AMD platform, we
are able to provide them with a single point of contact for the key platform components and enable them to bring the platforms to market faster in a variety of client and server system form factors.

Our AMD Fusion family of APUs represents a new approach to processor design and software development, delivering serial, parallel and
visual compute capabilities for HD video, 3D and data-intensive workloads in the APU. APUs combine high-performance serial and parallel processing cores with other special-purpose hardware accelerators. We designed our APUs for improved visual
computing, security, performance-per-watt and smaller device form factors. In November 2010, we began shipping the first of our AMD Fusion family of APU processor products. These APUs feature our new x86 CPU core, codenamed “Bobcat,” which
is designed specifically for the low-powered and ultra-thin PC markets.

Server.Our
microprocessors for server platforms consist primarily of multi-core AMD Opteron processors. A server is a system that performs services for connected clients as part of a client-server architecture. Servers are designed to run an
application or applications, often for extended periods of time with minimal human direction. Examples of servers include web servers, e-mail servers, print servers and cloud computing servers. These servers run a variety of applications
including business intelligence, enterprise resource planning, customer relationship management and advanced scientific or engineering models commonly referred to as high performance computing. Cloud computing is a computing model where data,
applications and services are delivered over the internet or an intranet. High performance computing involves the use of supercomputers and computer clusters to solve advanced computational problems in disciplines ranging from financial
modeling to weather forecasting to oil and gas exploration.

AMD Opteron processors also allow enterprise customers to
efficiently implement virtualization across their businesses. Virtualization is the use of software to allow multiple discrete operating systems and application environments (i.e., multiple virtual servers) to share a single physical
computer. By enabling multiple operating







systems and applications to run on the same server, virtualization offers the benefit of consolidating workloads and reducing hardware requirements, which can also reduce power, cooling and
system management costs.

In March 2010, we launched the AMD Opteron 6000 Series platform, our 8- and 12-core x86 processors
for the high volume 2 processor (2P) and value 4 processor (4P) server markets. In June 2010, we launched the AMD Opteron 4000 Series platform designed specifically for the unique needs of cloud and hyperscale data centers.

Notebook.Consumers continue to demand thinner and lighter notebook platforms with longer battery
life. In response to this demand, we continue to invest in designing and developing low power notebook platforms.

Our
microprocessors for notebook PC platforms consist of the AMD Dual-Core Accelerated Processor E-350, AMD Dual-Core Accelerated Processor C-50, AMD Phenom™ II Dual-Core Mobile Processor, AMD Phenom II Quad-Core Mobile Processor, AMD Turion™
X2 Mobile Processor, AMD Turion II Mobile Processor, AMD Turion II Ultra Mobile Processor, AMD Turion Neo X2 Mobile Processor, AMD Athlon™ II processor, AMD Athlon Neo processor, AMD Athlon Neo X2 Dual-Core processor and the Mobile AMD
Sempron™ processor. We design our mobile processor products for higher performance and longer battery life.

In May 2010,
we launched two notebook platforms targeted at the mainstream market and the market for small and thin-and-light notebooks. In January 2011, we launched a low power notebook platform in two APU variations: E-Series and C-Series. Our low powered
platform with the E-Series “Zacate” APU is targeted at mainstream notebooks, while our low powered platform with the C-Series “Ontario” APU is targeted at HD netbooks. In January 2011, we also updated our mainstream notebook
platform, in order to deliver to users more performance and a better experience when multi-tasking and on entertainment and media applications.

Desktop.Our microprocessors for desktop PC platforms consist primarily of the following tiered product brands: AMD Phenom II, AMD Phenom, AMD Athlon II, AMD Athlon
X2, AMD Athlon and AMD Sempron processors, which are based on AMD64 Technology. Processors marked under these brand names include single-, dual-, triple-, quad- and six- core versions. All AMD desktop microprocessors are based on AMD Direct Connect
Architecture. AMD Phenom branded processors are designed for megatasking, or running multiple, multi-threaded applications at the same time. Additionally, our Direct Connect Architecture allows all cores to have optimum access to the integrated
memory controller and integrated HyperTransport links, so that performance scales well with the number of cores. We designed the AMD Athlon processors for advanced multitasking on mainstream desktop PCs, and they are currently available with single
or dual-core technology. We designed the AMD Athlon dual-core processors for users who run software applications, such as productivity applications, multimedia applications and basic content creation, simultaneously. Our AMD processors are designed
to enable an end-user to perform multiple tasks with little or no performance interruption, such as downloading audio files such as MP3s, recording to digital media devices, checking and writing email and editing a digital photo.

In April 2010, we launched new mainstream and enthusiast desktop platforms. These new platforms are enhanced with our latest graphics
technology for HD digital media and 3D entertainment and multi-core processors for multi-tasking, including the new six-core AMD Phenom II X6 processor. Consistent with our other AMD Phenom processors, both the AMD Phenom II X6 1055T and 1090T
contain AMD’s Turbo CORE technology. AMD Turbo CORE technology is a performance boosting technology that automatically switches from six cores to three turbocharged cores for applications that require speed over multiple cores. While in Turbo
CORE mode, the AMD Phenom II X6 processor shifts frequency speed from 3.2GHz on six cores, to 3.6GHz on three cores. In addition, the E-Series 2011 low power platform can be used in all-in-ones and small form factor desktop PCs.







Embedded Processor Products

Our embedded products address customer needs in PC-adjacent markets. Typically, our embedded products are used in applications that
require high to moderate levels of performance where key features include low cost, mobility, low power and small form factor. High performance graphics are increasingly important in many embedded systems. Customers of our embedded products include
vendors in industrial controls, digital signage, point of sale/self-service kiosks, medical imaging, set-top box and casino gaming machines as well as enterprise class telecommunications, networking, security, storage systems and thin-clients, or
computers that serve as an access device on a network.

The embedded market has moved from developing proprietary, custom
designs to leveraging the industry-standard x86 instruction set architecture as a way to reduce costs and speed time to market. Customer requirements for these systems include: very low power for small enclosures and 24x7 operation, support for
Linux, Windows and other operating systems, and high-performance for increasingly sophisticated applications. Other requirements include advanced specifications for industrial temperatures, shock and vibration, and reliability.

Our embedded platforms include options from the AMD Opteron, AMD Athlon, AMD Turion, and AMD Sempron processor families; the AMD Embedded
G-Series, which is the embedded version of our APUs; the AMD Radeon™ graphics processor family; and numerous AMD chipsets. These products are part of the AMD Longevity Program, which provides for an availability period of up to five years in
some cases in order to support lengthy development and qualification cycles and long-term life of the system in the market.

In April 2010, we announced two new complete platforms for the embedded market, the compact ASB2 platform and the high-performance AM3
platform with improved graphics performance and I/O features. Our embedded platforms consist of chipset and graphics solutions along with high-performance CPUs. In January 2011, we launched the AMD Embedded G-Series platform. Based on AMD Fusion
technology, the new G-Series delivers a full-featured embedded platform and is designed to help reduce power consumption, physical footprint of the components and the costs to design and produce highly-integrated embedded solutions.

Chipset Market and Products

Chipsets send data between the microprocessor and input, display and storage devices, such as the keyboard, mouse, monitor, hard drive and CD or DVD drive. Chipsets perform essential logic functions, such
as balancing the performance of the system and removing bottlenecks. Chipsets also extend the graphics, audio, video and other capabilities of computer systems. All desktop, notebook and server PCs incorporate a chipset. In many PCs, the chipset is
integrated with additional functions such as a GPU. An integrated chipset solution is commonly known as an IGP (integrated graphics processor) chipset. Chipsets that do not integrate a graphics core will be connected to what is known as a discrete
GPU. IGP chipsets offer a lower cost solution and in some circumstances can offer reduced power consumption or smaller system form factors. A majority of PCs make use of IGP chipsets, while discrete GPUs are used in higher performance PCs and
servers.

In November 2010, we began shipping the first of our AMD Fusion family of APU processor products. The APU
architecture replaces an IGP-type chipset with an AMD Fusion Controller Hub chip which performs the input and output functions of the chipset. We believe that the combination of an APU and the AMD Fusion Controller Hub will eventually replace
our market for IGP chipsets. We expect that our portfolio of products will continue to include discrete GPUs as we continue to introduce high performance CPUs in 2011.







Graphics Products

Graphics Market

Graphics Products

Our customers generally use our graphics solutions to increase the speed of rendering images and to improve image resolution and color definition. Our products include 3D graphics and video and multimedia
products developed for use in desktop and notebook PCs, including home media PCs, professional workstations and servers. With each of our graphics products, we provide drivers and supporting software packages that enable the effective use of these
products under a variety of operating systems and applications. Our latest generation of graphics products and related software offer full support for the Microsoft®Windows®7 and Microsoft®Windows®Vista operating systems. In addition, our graphics products support Apple’s Mac OS X, as well as Linux®-based applications.

Heavy computational workloads have traditionally been processed on a CPU, but we believe that the industry is
shifting to a new computing paradigm that relies more on the GPU or a combination of GPU and CPU. AMD Accelerated Parallel Processing or GPGPU (General Purpose GPU) refers to a set of advanced hardware and software technologies that enable AMD GPUs,
working in concert with the computer system’s CPUs, to accelerate applications beyond traditional graphics and video processing by allowing the CPUs and GPUs to process information cooperatively. Heterogeneous computing enables PCs and servers
to run computationally-intensive tasks more efficiently, providing a superior application experience to the end user. In addition, our latest generation of graphics products offers full support for the Microsoft DirectX®11 (DX 11) and OpenCL application programming interface standards which enable the handling of key multimedia tasks
such as gaming programming and video. OpenCL is the widely adopted industry standard for running parallel tasks on CPUs and GPUs using the same code.

We believe that consumers will increasingly utilize graphic intensive applications that will require discrete GPUs. With our APUs, we offer discrete level GPU performance at value and mainstream price
points with the added benefit of long battery life in notebook PCs and lower power computing devices. Additionally, a mainstream APU, when paired with an AMD discrete GPU, in multi-GPU configuration will enable greater graphics performance and
parallel processing. As the visual experience grows in importance, semiconductor graphics suppliers and software developers are recognizing the potential of leveraging the GPU’s computing capabilities to accelerate certain workloads. As a
result, we expect that competitors in the CPU market will continue to deliver products that will require discrete GPUs to meet end user expectations.

Discrete Desktop Graphics.Although desktop PC manufacturers have tended to rely on IGP chipsets for graphics, we believe that discrete graphic solutions will continue
to be the preferred solution across desktop PC







configurations and platforms designed for gaming enthusiasts, computer aided design, or CAD, professionals and animators as well as for multimedia, photo and video editing and other
graphic-intensive applications. Our discrete GPUs for desktop PCs include the AMD Radeon HD 6000 series, ATI Radeon HD 5000 series, ATI Radeon HD 4000 series and ATI Radeon HD 3000 series. In February 2010, we introduced the ATI Radeon HD 5830 with
full support for DX 11 gaming, AMD Eyefinity technology and AMD Stream capabilities. AMD Eyefinity is a technology that allows a game to be played across multiple screens in a panoramic view with minimal distortion by allowing up to six monitors to
be connected to one graphics card. Also in February 2010, we launched the ATI Radeon HD 5570 graphics card, targeting end-users seeking an energy efficient, low-profile DX 11 card for small form factor PCs, and the ATI Radeon HD 5450 graphics card
designed to deliver enthusiast HD multimedia and game experience at a value price. In December 2010, we launched the AMD Radeon HD 6900 series graphics processors, providing gaming enthusiasts with AMD’s second-generation DX 11-capable
architecture, AMD HD3D technology for 3D entertainment, and AMD Eyefinity multi-display technology.

Discrete Notebook
Graphics.When selecting a graphics solution, key considerations for notebook PC manufacturers are visual performance, power consumption, form factor and cost. Our discrete GPU’s for notebook PCs include: the AMD
Radeon HD 6000M series, ATI Mobility Radeon HD 5000 series and ATI Mobility Radeon HD 4000 series. In January 2010, we launched our ATI Mobility Radeon HD 5800 series for gaming enthusiasts, the ATI Mobility Radeon HD 5700 and 5600 series for
multimedia performance notebooks, and ATI Mobility Radeon HD 5400 series for value and ultra-thin notebooks. In September 2010, we launched the ATI Radeon HD 5870 and the ATI Radeon HD 5850. The ATI Radeon HD 5800 series of graphics cards is
designed to expand PC users’ computing experience with AMD Eyefinity multi-display technology and accelerate their computing experience with AMD Accelerated Parallel Processing. In January 2011, we launched the AMD Radeon HD 6000M series
graphics, which feature second generation DX 11-capable architecture, enhanced 3D gaming and Blu-ray 3D video playback capabilities, AMD Eyefinity support and enhanced power management features.

Professional Graphics.Our AMD FirePro™ family of professional graphics products consist of 3D
and 2D multi-view graphics cards and GPUs that we designed for integration in notebook and desktop workstations, as well as business PCs. We designed our AMD FirePro 3D graphics cards for demanding applications such as CAD and digital content
creation, with drivers specifically tuned for maximum performance, stability and reliability across a wide range of software packages. Our AMD FirePro 2D Multi-View graphics cards and AMD FireMV 2D workstation cards are designed for financial and
corporate environments.

We also provide graphics products for the server market, where we leverage our
graphics expertise and align our offerings to provide the stability, video quality and bus architectures desired by our customers. Through our ATI CrossFireTMPro, we enable CAD professionals and digital content creators to connect two identical AMD FirePro 3D graphics cards
with a flex cable connection that can enhance performance of geometry-limited applications.

FireStream
Processors.We designed our AMD FireStream™ series of products to utilize the parallel stream processing power of the GPU for heavy floating-point computations and to meet the requirements of various industries,
such as the high-performance computing and the scientific and financial sectors. In June 2010, we launched the ATI FireStream 9350 and 9370 GPU compute accelerators targeted to handle high performance computing, and cloud and enterprise scale
deployments for commercial, scientific and academic research markets.

Game
Consoles.    Semiconductor graphics suppliers have leveraged their core visual and graphics processing technologies developed for the PC market by providing graphic solutions to game console manufacturers. In this market,
semiconductor graphics suppliers work alongside game console manufacturers to enhance the visual experience for users of sophisticated video games. We leverage our core visual processing technology into the game console market by providing
customized GPUs for graphics in videogame consoles such as the Microsoft®Xbox 360™ and Nintendo Wii.







Marketing and Sales

We sell our products through our direct sales force and through independent distributors and sales representatives in both domestic and international markets pursuant to non-exclusive agreements. Our
sales arrangements generally operate on the basis of product forecasts provided by the particular customer, but do not typically include any commitment or requirement for minimum product purchases. We primarily use purchase orders, sales order
acknowledgments and contractual agreements as evidence of our sales arrangements. Our agreements typically contain standard terms and conditions covering matters such as payment terms, warranties and indemnities for issues specific to our
products.

We generally warrant that our microprocessors, GPUs and chipsets sold to our customers will conform to our approved
specifications and be free from defects in material and workmanship under normal use and service for one year. Subject to certain exceptions, we also offer a three-year limited warranty to end users for microprocessor products that are commonly
referred to as “processors in a box” and for ATI branded PC workstation products. We have also offered extended limited warranties to certain customers of “tray” microprocessor products and/or workstation graphics products who
have written agreements with us and target their computer systems at the commercial and/or embedded markets.

We market and
sell our microprocessor and embedded processor products under the AMD trademark. Our desktop PC product brands for microprocessors are AMD Phenom, AMD Athlon and AMD Sempron. Our notebook PC brands for microprocessors are AMD Phenom, AMD Turion, AMD
Athlon and AMD Sempron. AMD Athlon processors and AMD Turion processors are sometimes marketed using the “Neo” model designator for low power products targeted at the thin-and-light notebook segment. Our server brand for microprocessors is
AMD Opteron. We also sell low-power versions of our AMD Opteron, AMD Athlon, AMD Turion and AMD Sempron processors as embedded processor solutions. We market and sell our chipsets under the AMD trademark.

Prior to October 2010, we marketed and sold GPUs for the consumer and professional markets under the ATI trademark.
In October 2010, we transitioned the consumer graphics brand name from ATI Radeon to AMD Radeon for new products. All previously launched products retain the ATI Radeon brand name. In January 2011, we transitioned the brand name from ATI to AMD for
new professional graphics products launching in 2011. All previously launched professional graphics products will retain the following brand names: ATI FirePro, ATI FireGLTMand ATI FireMV.

We launch or update new platforms for consumers in the desktop and notebook markets under our VISION Technology from AMD brand. We launched VISION Technology in late 2009 as a new way to help consumers
select the PC that best meets their needs. We designed VISION Technology to simplify the buying process for consumers by more clearly connecting our brand to the level of activities that consumers want to perform on the PC. VISION Technology
contains multiple levels of increasingly rich PC system capabilities to address the diverse needs of today’s PC users. In January 2010, we introduced VISION Pro Technology. Designed for business users, VISION Pro Technology extends the
approach of VISION Technology to commercial PC platforms. In May 2010, we introduced VISION Black, to enable the highest end capabilities sought by enthusiasts, primarily on desktop PCs.

We market our products through our direct marketing and co-marketing programs. In addition, we have cooperative advertising and marketing
programs with customers or third parties, including market development programs, pursuant to which we may provide product information, training, marketing materials and funds. Under our co-marketing development programs, eligible customers can use
market development funds as partial reimbursement for advertisements and marketing programs related to our products, subject to meeting defined criteria. Original Equipment Manufacturers, or OEMs, customers may qualify for market development funds
based on purchases of eligible products.







Customers

Our microprocessor customers consist primarily of OEMs, original design manufacturers, or ODMs, system builders and independent distributors in both domestic and international markets. ODMs provide design
and/or manufacturing services to branded and unbranded private label resellers, OEMs and system builders. Our graphics products customers include the foregoing as well as AIBs, or add-in-board manufacturers.

Customers of our chipset products consist primarily of PC and server OEMs, often through ODMs or other contract manufacturers who build
the OEM motherboards, as well as desktop and server motherboard manufacturers who incorporate chipsets into their channel motherboards.

Our sales and marketing teams work closely with our customers to define product features, performance and timing of new products so that the products we are developing meet our customers’ needs. We
also employ application engineers to assist our customers in designing, testing and qualifying system designs that incorporate our products in order to assist in optimizing product compatibility. We believe that our commitment to customer service
and design support improves our customers’ time-to-market and fosters relationships that encourage customers to use the next generation of our products.

Original Equipment Manufacturers

We focus on three types of OEMs:
multi-nationals, selected regional accounts and target market customers. Large multi-nationals and regional accounts are our core OEM customers. Our OEM customers include numerous foreign and domestic manufacturers of servers and workstations,
desktop and notebook PCs, and PC motherboards.

In 2010, Hewlett-Packard Company accounted for more than 10% of our
consolidated net revenues. Sales to Hewlett-Packard consisted primarily of products from our Computing Solutions segment. Five customers, including Hewlett-Packard, accounted for approximately 55% of the net revenue attributable to our Computing
Solutions segment. In addition, five customers accounted for approximately 46% of the net revenue attributable to our Graphics segment. A loss of any of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business.

Third-Party Distributors

Our authorized distributors resell to sub-distributors and mid-sized and smaller OEMs and ODMs. Typically, distributors handle a wide variety of products, including those that compete with our products.
Distributors typically maintain an inventory of our products. In most instances, our agreements with distributors protect their inventory of our products against price reductions and provide return rights with respect to any product that we have
removed from our price book that is not more than twelve months older than the manufacturing code date. In addition, some agreements with our distributors may contain standard stock rotation provisions permitting limited levels of product returns.

AIB Manufacturers and System Integrators

We strive to establish and broaden our relationships with AIB manufacturers. We offer component-level graphics and chipset products to AIB manufacturers who in turn build and sell board-level products
using our technology to system integrators, or SIs, and at retail. Our agreements with AIBs protect their inventory of our products against price reductions. We also sell directly to our SI customers. SIs typically sell from positions of regional or
product-based strength in the market. They usually operate on short design cycles and can respond quickly with new technologies. SIs often use discrete graphics solutions as a means to differentiate their products and add value to their customers.







Competition

Generally, the IC industry is intensely competitive. Products typically compete on product quality, power consumption, reliability, performance, size (or form factor), cost, selling price, adherence to
industry standards, software and hardware compatibility and stability, brand recognition, timely product introductions and availability. Technological advances in the industry result in frequent product introductions, regular price reductions, short
product life cycles and increased product capabilities that may result in significant performance improvements. Our ability to compete depends on our ability to develop, introduce and sell new products or enhanced versions of existing products on a
timely basis and at competitive prices, while reducing our costs.

Competition in the Microprocessor Market

Intel Corporation has dominated the market for microprocessors for many years. Intel’s market share and significant financial
resources enable it to market its products aggressively, to target our customers and our channel partners with special incentives, and to discipline customers who do business with us. These aggressive activities have in the past and are likely in
the future to result in lower unit sales and a lower average selling price for our products, and adversely affect our margins and profitability.

As long as Intel remains in this dominant position, we may be materially adversely affected by Intel’s:



•business practices, including rebating, and allocation strategies and pricing actions, designed to limit our market share and margins;



•product mix and introduction schedules;



•product bundling, marketing and merchandising strategies;



•exclusivity payments to its current and potential customers and channel partners;



•control over industry standards, PC manufacturers and other PC industry participants, including motherboard, memory, chipset and basic input/output
system, or BIOS, suppliers and software companies as well as the graphics interface for Intel platforms; and



•marketing and advertising expenditures in support of positioning the Intel brand over the brand of its OEM customers.

Intel exerts substantial influence over computer manufacturers and their channels of distribution through various brand and other
marketing programs. As a result of Intel’s dominant position in the microprocessor market, Intel has been able to control x86 microprocessor and computer system standards and benchmarks and to dictate the type of products the microprocessor
market requires of us. Intel also dominates the computer system platform, which includes core logic chipsets, graphics chips, motherboards and other components necessary to assemble a computer system. OEMs that purchase microprocessors for computer
systems are highly dependent on Intel, less innovative on their own and, to a large extent, are distributors of Intel technology. Additionally, Intel is able to drive de facto standards for x86 microprocessors that could cause us and other companies
to have delayed access to such standards.

Intel also leverages its dominance in the microprocessor market to sell its
integrated chipsets. Intel manufactures and sells integrated graphics chipsets bundled with their microprocessors and is a dominant competitor with respect to this portion of our business. Moreover, computer manufacturers are increasingly using
integrated graphics chipsets rather than discrete graphics components, particularly for notebooks, because they cost less than traditional discrete graphics components while offering satisfactory graphics performance for most mainstream PCs. Intel
could also take actions that place our discrete GPUs at a competitive disadvantage, including giving one or more of our competitors in the graphics market, such as Nvidia Corporation (Nvidia), preferential access to its proprietary graphics
interface or other useful information.

Intel has substantially greater financial resources than we do and accordingly spends
substantially greater amounts on research and development than we do. We expect Intel to maintain its dominant position and to







continue to invest heavily in marketing, research and development, new manufacturing facilities and other technology companies. To the extent Intel manufactures a significantly larger portion of
its microprocessor products using more advanced process technologies, or introduces competitive new products into the market before we do, we may be more vulnerable to Intel’s aggressive marketing and pricing strategies for microprocessor
products.

Intel’s dominant position in the microprocessor market and integrated graphics chipset market, its existing
relationships with top-tier OEMs and its aggressive marketing and pricing strategies could result in lower unit sales and a lower average selling price for our products, which could have a material adverse effect on us.

Other potential competitors include solution providers of ARM Ltd.’s (ARM) powered products used in the mobile and embedded
electronics market as relatively low cost and small microprocessors and also in form factors that offer an alternative to mainstream PCs such as netbooks and tablets. In addition, Nvidia recently announced its plans to build custom CPU cores based
on ARM architecture to support future products ranging from PCs and servers to workstations and super computers.

Competition in the
Chipset Market

In the chipset market, our competitors include suppliers of integrated graphics chipsets. PC
manufacturers are increasingly choosing to use integrated chipsets, particularly for notebooks, because they cost less than traditional discrete GPUs while offering acceptable graphics performance for most mainstream PC users. Intel manufactures and
sells integrated graphics chipsets bundled with their microprocessors and is a dominant competitor in this market.

Competition in the
Graphics Market

In the graphics market, our competitors include integrated graphics and discrete graphics suppliers.
Intel manufactures and sells integrated graphics chipsets bundled with their microprocessors and is a dominant competitor with respect to this portion of our business. Intel could leverage its dominance in the microprocessor market to sell its
integrated chipsets. Moreover, computer manufacturers are increasingly using integrated graphics chipsets, particularly for notebooks, because they cost less than traditional discrete GPUs while offering acceptable graphics performance for most
mainstream PC users.

Intel could take actions that place our discrete GPUs and integrated chipsets at a competitive
disadvantage such as giving one or more of our competitors in the graphics market, such as Nvidia, preferential access to its proprietary graphics interface or other useful information.

Other than Intel, our principal competitor is Nvidia. AMD and Nvidia are the two principal players offering discrete graphics solutions.
Other competitors include a number of smaller companies, which may have greater flexibility to address specific market needs, but less financial resources to do so, especially as we believe that the growing complexity of visual processors and
the associated research and development costs represent an increasingly higher barrier to entry in this market.

In the game
console category, we compete primarily against Nvidia. Other competitors include Intel and IBM.

Research and Development

We focus our research and development activities on improving and enhancing product design. One main area of focus is on delivering the
next generation of products with greater system level integration of the CPU and GPU, improved system performance and performance-per-watt characteristics. For example, we are focusing on improving the battery life of our microprocessors and APU
products for notebook PCs and the power







efficiency of our microprocessors for servers. We are also focusing on delivering a range of low power integrated platforms to serve key markets, including commercial clients, mobile computing,
and gaming and media computing. We believe that these integrated platforms will bring customers better time-to-market and increased performance and energy efficiency. We also work with industry leaders on process technology, software and other
functional intellectual property and we work with others in the industry, public foundations, universities and industry consortia to conduct early stage research and development.

Our research and development expenses for 2010, 2009, and 2008 were approximately $1.4 billion, $1.7 billion and $1.8 billion. For more
information, see Part II, Item 7—“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” or MD&A.

We conduct product and system research and development activities for our products in the United States with additional design and development engineering teams located in Canada, India, Germany, United
Kingdom, Singapore, China, Japan, and Taiwan.

Manufacturing Arrangements and Assembly and Test Facilities

Third-Party Foundry Facilities

GLOBALFOUNDRIES, Inc.On March 2, 2009, together with Advanced Technology Investment Company LLC (ATIC) and West Coast Hitech L.P., (WCH), acting through its general partner, West Coast Hitech
G.P., Ltd., we formed GLOBALFOUNDRIES, Inc. (GF), a manufacturing joint venture that manufactures semiconductor products and provides certain foundry services to us. Pursuant to the Master Transaction Agreement entered into among the parties on
October 6, 2008, as amended, we contributed certain manufacturing -related assets and liabilities to GF in exchange for securities of GF and the assumption of specified AMD liabilities by GF. At the closing of the transactions, we
also entered into a Shareholders’ Agreement (the Shareholders’ Agreement), a Funding Agreement (the Funding Agreement), and a Wafer Supply Agreement (the Wafer Supply Agreement), with ATIC and GF, certain terms of each of which are
summarized below.

Shareholders’ Agreement.    The Shareholders’ Agreement sets forth the
rights and obligations of AMD and ATIC as shareholders of GF. The number of directors a GF shareholder may designate is determined according to the percentage of GF shares it owns on a fully converted to GF Ordinary Shares basis. We currently have
the right to designate one director. Pursuant to the Shareholders’ Agreement, if a change of control of AMD occurs within two years of the closing of the transactions, or March 2, 2011, ATIC will have the right to put any or all GF
securities (valued at their fair market value) held by ATIC and its permitted transferees to us in exchange for cash. In addition, in the event of a change of control of AMD, ATIC will have the option to purchase in cash any or all GF securities
(valued at their fair market value) held by us and our permitted transferees, ATIC can require us or the other party to the change in control transaction to assume a pro-rata portion of ATIC’s funding commitment under the Funding Agreement
until 2013, and ATIC can require the other party to the change in control transaction to guarantee all of our obligations under the transaction documents.

Funding Agreement.    The Funding Agreement provides for the future funding of GF and governs the terms and conditions under which ATIC is obligated to provide such funding.
Pursuant to the Funding Agreement, ATIC committed to additional equity funding of a minimum of $3.6 billion and up to $6.0 billion to be provided in phases over a five-year period commencing from the closing of the transactions. We have the right,
but not the obligation, to provide additional future capital to GF in an amount pro rata to our interest in the fully converted Ordinary Shares of GF. To the extent we choose not to participate in an equity financing of GF, ATIC is obligated to
purchase our share of GF securities, subject to ATIC’s funding commitments under the Funding Agreement. ATIC’s obligations to provide funding are subject to certain conditions.

On December 27, 2010, ATIC International Investment Company LLC, an affiliate of ATIC, contributed all of the outstanding Ordinary
Shares of GLOBALFOUNDRIES Singapore Pte. Ltd., (formerly Chartered







Semiconductor Manufacturing Ltd.) (GFS), to GF. As a result, we amended and restated the Shareholders’ Agreement and the Funding Agreement. Subject to certain exceptions set forth in the
Amended and Restated Shareholders’ Agreement, our right to designate one representative to the GF board of directors will continue for at least two years following the date on which our ownership in GF, on a fully converted to GF Ordinary
Shares basis, falls below 10%, the point at which we previously lost the right to such board representative. Pursuant to the Amended and Restated Funding Agreement, for each equity funding under the Funding Agreement on or after November 17,
2010, the securities issued in consideration thereof will consist solely of GF’s Class A Preferred Shares. In addition, the purchase price per Class A Preferred Share is determined by dividing GF’s net tangible assets (derived
from its most recent fiscal year-end audited consolidated balance sheet) by GF’s total number of outstanding preferred shares (assuming the conversion of any outstanding GF Class A subordinated convertible notes into Class A Preferred
Shares and Class B subordinated convertible notes into Class B Preferred Shares) as of the date of the balance sheet referred to above and multiplying by 1.10. Prior to November 17, 2010, the funding multiple was 0.90.

Wafer Supply Agreement.We purchase substantially all of our microprocessor product requirements from GF
pursuant to the terms of the Wafer Supply Agreement. We currently pay GF for wafers on a cost-plus basis. If we acquire a third-party business that manufactures microprocessor products, we will have up to two years to transition the manufacture of
such products to GF. In addition, once GF develops certain specific qualified processes for bulk silicon wafers, we will purchase from GF, where competitive, specified percentages of our GPU wafer requirements. We agreed not to sell, transfer or
dispose of all or substantially all of our assets related to GPU products and related technology to any third party without GF’s consent, unless the transferee agrees to be bound by the terms of the Wafer Supply Agreement, including its minimum
purchase obligations, where competitive, with respect to GPU products. We will provide GF with binding product forecasts of our product requirements. After reviewing forecasts provided by us, as agreed by the parties, GF will allocate capacity
sufficient to produce our microprocessor product volumes as set forth in the binding forecasts. At our request, GF will also provide sort services to us on a product-by-product basis. The price for GPU products will be determined by the parties when
GF is able to begin manufacturing GPU products for us.

The Wafer Supply Agreement terminates no later than March 2,
2024. However, the Wafer Supply Agreement may be terminated if a business plan deadlock occurs because AMD or ATIC, as the shareholders of GF, are unable to agree on GF’s annual business plan and ATIC elects to enter into a transition period
pursuant to the Funding Agreement. GF agreed to use commercially reasonable efforts to assist us to transition the supply of products to another provider and continue to fulfill purchase orders for up to two years following the termination or
expiration of the Wafer Supply Agreement. During the transition period, pricing for microprocessor products will remain as set forth in the Wafer Supply Agreement, but our purchase commitments to GF will no longer apply.

GF fabricates wafers for our microprocessors at its facilities primarily on 45nm process technology. In addition, we are in the process
of qualifying GF’s 32nm process technology for our products.

We also have foundry arrangements with Taiwan Semiconductor
Manufacturing Company (TSMC) for the production of our graphics and chipset products, embedded processors, as well as two of our APU products. Currently, we are in production in TSMC’s 300 millimeter and 200 millimeter fabrication facilities in
technologies ranging from 40nm to 250nm. We are currently in the process of qualifying 28nm process technology at multiple foundries for certain products. Smaller process geometries can lead to gains in graphics processing performance, lower
power consumption and lower per unit manufacturing costs.

Other Third-Party Manufacturers

We outsource board-level graphics product manufacturing to third-party manufacturers. These include Foxconn and PC Partner with locations
in China. Our facility in Markham, Ontario, Canada is primarily devoted to prototyping for new graphics product introductions.







Assembly, Test, Mark and Packaging Facilities

We own and operate three microprocessor assembly, test, mark and packaging facilities. Wafers for our microprocessor and embedded
processor products are delivered from third party foundries, to our assembly, test, mark and packaging facilities. Our microprocessor assembly, test, mark and packaging facilities are described in the chart set forth below:



Facility LocationApproximateManufacturingArea SquareFootageActivityPenang, Malaysia206,000Assembly & TestSingapore(1)215,000Test, Mark & PackagingSuzhou, China44,000Test, Mark & Packaging



(1)165,000 sq. ft. of the Singapore facility is currently vacant. The facility is 380,000 square feet in total.

Wafers for our graphics products are delivered from the third party foundry to our test, assembly and packaging partners, which include
Advanced Semiconductor Engineering Group, Amkor, King Yuan Electronics, Siliconware Precision Industries and STATS-ChipPAC Limited, who package and test the final semiconductor products.

Intellectual Property and Licensing

We rely on contracts and intellectual
property rights to protect our products and technologies from unauthorized third-party copying and use. Intellectual property rights include copyrights, patents, patent applications, trademarks, trade secrets and maskwork rights. As of
December 25, 2010 we had more than 4,100 patents in the United States and approximately 1,300 patent applications pending in the United States. In certain cases, we have filed corresponding applications in foreign jurisdictions. We expect to
file future patent applications in both the United States and abroad on significant inventions, as we deem appropriate. We do not believe that any individual patent, or the expiration thereof, is or would be material to our business.







We also have a patent cross license agreement with GF pursuant to which each party granted
to the other a non-exclusive license under patents filed by a party (or are otherwise acquired by a party) within a certain number of years following the effective date of the agreement. In 2009, under the agreements with GF, we assigned
approximately 3,000 patents and approximately 1,000 patent applications to GF. GF owns its allocation of patents and applications subject to pre-existing rights, licenses or immunities granted to third parties relating to such patents and
applications. The patents and patent applications to be owned by each party after the division were licensed to the other party pursuant to the agreement.

In addition, we entered into a Non-Patent Intellectual Property and Technology Transfer Agreement with GF pursuant to which we assigned to GF all of our right, title and interest in technology and
non-patent intellectual property rights used exclusively in the manufacture, sorting and/or intermediate testing of semiconductor products. We retained technology and non-patent intellectual property rights used exclusively in the design and/or
post-fabrication delivery testing of semiconductors. Technology and non-patent intellectual property rights used both in the manufacture, sorting and/or intermediate testing of semiconductor products and in the design and/or post-fabrication
delivery testing of semiconductor products is owned jointly by us and GF.

Backlog

We sell standard lines of products. Sales are made primarily pursuant to purchase orders for current delivery or agreements covering
purchases over a period of time. Some of these orders or agreements may be revised or cancelled without penalty. Generally, in light of current industry practice, we do not believe that such orders or agreements provide meaningful backlog figures or
are necessarily indicative of actual sales for any succeeding period.

Employees

As of December 25, 2010, we had approximately 11,100 employees.

Environmental Regulations

Many aspects of our business operations and
products are regulated by domestic and international environmental laws and regulations. These regulations include limitations on discharge of pollutants to air, water, and soil; remediation requirements; product chemical content limitations;
manufacturing chemical use and handling restrictions; pollution control requirements; waste minimization considerations; and requirements with respect to treatment, transport, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes. If we fail to comply
with any of the applicable environmental regulations we may be subject to fines, suspension of production, alteration of our manufacturing processes, import/export restrictions, sales limitations, and/or criminal and civil liabilities. Existing or
future regulations could require us to procure expensive pollution abatement or remediation equipment; to modify product designs; or to incur other expenses to comply with environmental regulations. Any failure to adequately control the use,
disposal or storage, or discharge of hazardous substances could expose us to future liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business. We believe we are in material compliance with applicable environmental requirements and do not
expect those requirements to result in material expenditures in the foreseeable future.

Environmental laws are complex,
change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. For example, the European Union (EU) and China are two among a growing number of jurisdictions that have enacted in recent years restrictions on the use of lead, among other
chemicals, in electronic products with other countries considering similar restrictions. These regulations affect semiconductor packaging. There is a risk that the cost, quality and manufacturing yields of lead-free products may be less
favorable compared to lead-based products or that the transition to lead-free products may produce sudden changes in demand, which may result in excess inventory. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act contains provisions to
improve the transparency and accountability concerning the supply of minerals coming from the conflict zones of







the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). As a result, the SEC is required to promulgate by April 15, 2011, new annual disclosure and reporting requirements for those companies who
use “conflict” minerals mined from the DRC and adjoining countries in their products. The implementation of these requirements could affect the sourcing and availability of minerals used in the manufacture of semiconductor devices. As
a result, there may only be a limited pool of suppliers who provide conflict free metals, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain products in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. Also, since our supply chain is complex, we
may face reputational challenges with our customers and other stakeholders if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all metals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement.

Other regulatory requirements potentially affecting our back-end manufacturing processes and the design and marketing of our products are
in development throughout the world. In addition, a number of jurisdictions including the EU, Australia and China are considering market entry requirements for computers based on the ENERGY STAR specification (Version 5.0) as well as additional
limits. The proposed requirements, which have not yet been finalized, could potentially be approved and implemented as early as the fourth quarter of 2011. If such requirements are implemented in the proposed time frame and to the proposed
specification there is the potential for certain of our microprocessor, chipset and GPU products, as incorporated in desktop and mobile PCs, being excluded from these markets. We have management systems in place to identify and ensure compliance
with such requirements and have budgeted for foreseeable associated expenditures. However, we cannot assure you that future environmental legal requirements will not become more stringent or costly in the future. Therefore, we cannot assure you that
our costs of complying with current and future environmental and health and safety laws, and our liabilities arising from past and future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances will not have a material adverse effect on us.



