10-K


l89499ae10-k.htm

THE JM SMUCKER CO. - 10-K FISCAL YEAR END 4-30-01

The JM Smucker Co. - 10-K Fiscal Year End 4-30-01



UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

(X) ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)

OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the Fiscal Year Ended April 30, 2001

(  ) TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)

OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Commission File Number 1-5111

THE J. M. SMUCKER COMPANY

Ohio

34-0538550

State of Incorporation

I.R.S. Employer Identification No.

One Strawberry Lane

Orrville, Ohio 44667-0280

Principal executive offices

Telephone number: (330) 682-3000

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Common Shares, no par value

Registered on the

New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

The Registrant has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months,
and has been subject to such filing requirements for at least the past 90 days.

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [  ]

As of July 17, 2001, 24,419,354 Common Shares of The J. M. Smucker Company
were issued and outstanding. The aggregate market value of the Common Shares
held by nonaffiliates of the Registrant at July 17, 2001, was $510,687,264.

Certain sections of the Registrant’s definitive Proxy Statement, dated
July 10, 2001, for the August 14, 2001 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, and of
the 2001 Annual Report to Shareholders are incorporated by reference into Parts I, II, III, and IV of this Report.



PART I

Item 1. Business

The Company

. The J. M. Smucker Company was established in 1897 and was
incorporated in Ohio in 1921. The Company, often referred to as

Smucker’s

(a
registered trademark), operates in one industry, the manufacturing and
marketing of food products on a worldwide basis. Unless otherwise indicated by
the context, the term “Company” as used in this report means the continuing
operations of The J. M. Smucker Company and its subsidiaries.

Principal Products

. The principal products of the Company are fruit
spreads, dessert toppings, peanut butter, frozen peanut butter and jelly
sandwiches, industrial fruit products, fruit and vegetable juices, beverages,
syrups, condiments, and gift packages.

In its domestic segment, the Company’s products are primarily sold through
brokers to chain, wholesale, cooperative, independent grocery accounts and
other consumer markets, to foodservice distributors and chains including
hotels, restaurants, schools and other institutions, and to other food
manufacturers.

The Company’s distribution outside the United States is principally in
Canada, Australia, Brazil, Mexico, the Pacific Rim, and Greater Europe,
although products are exported to other countries as well. International sales
represent approximately 14% of total consolidated Company sales for fiscal
2001.

Sources and Availability of Raw Materials

. The fruit raw materials used
by the Company in the production of its food products are purchased from
independent growers and suppliers. Because of the seasonal nature and
volatility of quantities of most of the crops on which the Company depends, it
is necessary to prepare and freeze stocks of fruit, fruit juices, berries, and
other food products and to maintain them in cold storage warehouses.
Sweeteners, peanuts, and other ingredients are obtained from various other
sources.

Trademarks

. The Company’s products are marketed under numerous trademarks
owned by the Company. Major trademarks include:

Smucker’s, Dickinson’s, Lost
Acres, Mary Ellen, Adams, Laura Scudder’s, Goober, Simply Fruit, Magic Shell,
Sundae Syrup, Smucker’s Snackers, Uncrustables, IXL, Double Fruit, Good
Morning, The R. W. Knudsen Family, After The Fall, Simply Nutritious, Recharge,
Santa Cruz Organic,

and

Spritzer

. In addition, the Company licenses the use of
several other trademarks, none of which individually is material to the
Company’s business.

Other slogans or designs considered to be important Company trademarks
include (without limitation) the slogan, “With a name like

Smucker’s,

it has to
be good”, “Over 100 Years of Family-Made Goodness”, the

Smucker’s

banner, the
Crock Jar shape, the Gingham design, and the strawberry logo.

Seasonality

. Historically, the Company’s business has not been highly
seasonal.

Working Capital

. Working capital requirements are greatest during the
late spring and summer months due to seasonal procurement of fruits, berries,
and peanuts.

Customers

. The Company is not dependent either on a single customer or on
a very few customers for a major part of its sales. No single domestic or
foreign customer accounts for more than 10% of consolidated sales.



Orders

. Generally, orders are filled within a few days of receipt and the
backlog of unfilled orders at any particular time is not material.

Government Business

. No material portion of the Company’s business is
subject to negotiation of profits or termination of contracts at the election
of the government.

Competition

. The Company is the U.S. market leader in the fruit spreads,
dessert topping, health and natural foods, beverages, natural peanut butter, and
peanut butter combination categories. The Company’s business is highly
competitive as all its brands compete for retail shelf space with other
advertised and branded products as well as unadvertised and private label
products. The continued growth of alternative store formats (i.e., warehouse
club and mass merchandise stores), consolidation of retailers, manufacturers,
and brokers within the food industry, and changes in business practices,
resulting from both technological advances and new industry techniques, have
all added additional variables for companies in the food industry to consider
in order to remain competitive. The principal methods of and factors in
competition are product quality, price, advertising, and promotion.

Research and Development

. The Company predominantly utilizes in-house
resources to both develop new products and improve existing products in each of
its business areas. In relation to consolidated assets and operating expenses,
amounts expensed for research and development in each of the areas and in the
aggregate were not material in any of the last three years.

Environmental Matters

. Compliance with the provisions of federal, state,
and local environmental regulations regarding either the discharge of materials
into the environment or the protection of the environment is not expected to
have a material effect upon the capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive
position of the Company.

Employees

. At April 30, 2001, the Company had approximately 2,250
full-time employees, worldwide.

Segment and Geographic Information

. Information concerning international
operations for the years 2001, 2000, and 1999 is hereby incorporated by
reference from the 2001 Annual Report to Shareholders, on pages 22 and 23 under
Note B: “Operating Segments”.



Item 2. Properties

The table below lists all the Company’s manufacturing and fruit processing
facilities. All of the Company’s properties are maintained and updated on a
regular basis, and the Company continues to make investment for expansion and
technological improvements. The properties listed below are owned, except for
the West Fargo, North Dakota location, which is leased. The corporate
headquarters are located in Orrville, Ohio.

Item 3. Legal Proceedings

The Company is not a party to any pending legal proceeding that would be
considered material.

Item 4. Submissions of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

Not applicable.



PART II

Item 5. Market for the Registrant’s Common Stock and Related Stockholder Matters

The information pertaining to the market for the Company’s Common Shares
and other related shareholder information is hereby incorporated by reference
from the Company’s 2001 Annual Report to Shareholders under the caption “Stock
Price Data” on page 9.

Item 6. Selected Financial Data

Five-year summaries of selected financial data for the Company and
discussions of items which materially affect the comparability of the selected
financial data are hereby incorporated by reference from the Company’s 2001
Annual Report to Shareholders under the following captions and page numbers:
“Five-Year Summary of Selected Financial Data” on page 8, Note A: “Accounting
Policies” on pages 20 and 21 and Note C: “Nonrecurring Charge” on page 23.

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis

Management’s discussion and analysis of results of operations and
financial condition, including a discussion of liquidity and capital resources,
is hereby incorporated by reference from the Company’s 2001 Annual Report to
Shareholders, on pages 10 through 13.

Item 7a. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are hereby
incorporated by reference from the Company’s 2001 Annual Report to Shareholders
on pages 12 and 13.

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

Consolidated financial statements of the Company at April 30, 2001 and
2000, and for each of the three years in the period ended April 30, 2001, with
the report of independent auditors and selected unaudited quarterly financial
data, are hereby incorporated by reference from the Company’s 2001 Annual
Report to Shareholders on page 9 and pages 14 through 31.

Item 9. Disagreements on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None.



PART III

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

Information regarding directors and nominees for directorship is
incorporated herein by reference from the Company’s definitive Proxy Statement,
dated July 10, 2001, for the 2001 Annual Meeting of Shareholders on August 14,
2001, on pages 3 through 6, under the caption “Election of Directors”.

Information regarding disclosure of late filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is incorporated herein by reference from the Company’s
definitive Proxy Statement, dated July 10, 2001, for the 2001 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders on August 14, 2001, under the caption “Section 16(a) Beneficial
Ownership Reporting Compliance” on page 16.

Executive Officers of the Company

The names, ages as of July 1, 2001, and positions of the executive
officers of the Company are listed below. All executive officers serve at the
pleasure of the Board of Directors, with no fixed term of office. All of the
officers have held various positions with the Company for more than five years.



Item 11. Executive Compensation

Information regarding the compensation of directors and executive officers
is incorporated by reference from the Company’s definitive Proxy Statement,
dated July 10, 2001, for the 2001 Annual Meeting of Shareholders on August 14,
2001, on page 5 under the caption “Director Compensation”, and on pages 7
through 12 under “Report of the Executive Compensation Committee of the Board
of Directors”.

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

Information regarding security ownership of certain beneficial owners, of
the named executive officers, and of directors and executive officers as a
group, is hereby incorporated by reference from the Company’s definitive Proxy
Statement, dated July 10, 2001, for the 2001 Annual Meeting of Shareholders on
August 14, 2001, on pages 14 through 16, under the caption “Ownership of Common
Shares”.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

Information regarding certain relationships and related transactions is
hereby incorporated by reference from the Company’s definitive Proxy Statement
dated July 10, 2001, for the 2001 Annual Meeting of Shareholders on August 14,
2001, beginning with “Election of Directors” on page 3 and continuing through
“Director Compensation” on page 5.



PART IV

Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedule and Reports on Form 8-K




Consent of Independent Auditors


Powers of Attorney

All other required exhibits are either inapplicable to the Company or require
no answer.

Copies of exhibits are not attached hereto, but the Company will furnish
any of the foregoing exhibits to any shareholder upon written request.
Please address inquiries to: The J. M. Smucker Company, Strawberry
Lane, Orrville, Ohio 44667, Attention: Steven J. Ellcessor, Secretary.
A fee of $1 per page will be charged to help defray the cost of handling,
copying, and return postage.

(b)  Reports on Form 8-K filed in the Fourth Quarter of 2001.

No reports on Form 8-K were required to be filed during the last
quarter of the period covered by this report.

(c)  The response to this portion of Item 14 is submitted as a separate section
of this report.

(d)  The response to this portion of Item 14 is submitted as a separate section
of this report.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report on Form 10-K
to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Date: July 24, 2001

The J. M. Smucker Company

/s/

Steven J. Ellcessor

By:

Steven J. Ellcessor

Vice President--Finance and Administration,

Secretary, and General Counsel

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, this Report on Form 10-K has been signed below by the following
persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the date
indicated.



THE J. M. SMUCKER COMPANY

ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

ITEMS 14(a) (1) AND (2), (c) AND (d)

INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE

CERTAIN EXHIBITS

FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE

All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable or because
the information required is included in the Consolidated Financial Statements
or the notes thereto.

F-1


THE J. M. SMUCKER COMPANY

SCHEDULE II — VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

YEARS ENDED APRIL 30, 2001, 2000, AND 1999

(Dollars in Thousands)

(A)

Uncollectible accounts written off, net of recoveries.

F-2