10-K405


e10-k405.htm

THE J.M. SMUCKER COMPANY       10-K405

The J.M. Smucker Company 10-K405 for FYE 4-30-00


UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

(X) ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)

OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the Fiscal Year Ended April 30, 2000

( ) TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d)

OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Commission File Number 1-5111

THE J. M. SMUCKER
COMPANY

Ohio

34-0538550

State of Incorporation

I.R.S. Employer Identification No.

One Strawberry Lane

Orrville, Ohio 44667-0280

Principal executive offices

Telephone number: (330) 682-3000

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(b) of the Act:

Class A
Common Shares, no par value

Registered on the

Class B Common Shares, no par value

New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

The Registrant has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months,
and has been subject to such filing requirements for at least the past 90 days.

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [ X ]

As of July 6, 2000, 14,259,429 Class A Common Shares and 14,065,851 Class
B Common Shares of The J. M. Smucker Company were issued and outstanding. The
aggregate market value of the voting Common Shares (Class A) held by
non-affiliates of the Registrant at July 6, 2000, was $206,373,870.

Certain sections of the Registrant’s definitive Proxy Statement, dated
July 14, 2000, for the August 15, 2000 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, and of
the 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders are incorporated by reference into Parts
I, II, III, and IV of this Report.



PART I

Item 1. Business

The Company.

The J. M. Smucker Company was established in 1897 and was
incorporated in Ohio in 1921. The Company, often referred to as

Smucker’s

(a
registered trademark), operates in one industry, the manufacturing and
marketing of food products on a worldwide basis. Unless otherwise indicated by
the context, the term “Company” as used in this report means the continuing
operations of The J. M. Smucker Company and its subsidiaries.

Principal Products.

The principal products of the Company are fruit
spreads, dessert toppings, peanut butter, industrial fruit products, fruit and
vegetable juices, juice beverages, syrups, condiments, and gift packages.

In its domestic segment, the Company’s products are primarily sold through
brokers to chain, wholesale, cooperative, independent grocery accounts and
other consumer markets, to foodservice distributors and chains including
hotels, restaurants, and institutions, and to other food manufacturers.

The Company’s distribution outside the United States is principally in
Canada, Australia, Mexico, Latin America, the Pacific Rim, and Greater Europe,
although products are exported to other countries as well. International sales
represent approximately 14% of total consolidated Company sales for fiscal
2000.

Sources and Availability of Raw Materials.

The fruit raw materials used
by the Company in the production of its food products are generally purchased
from independent growers and suppliers, although the Company, through a joint
venture, grows some strawberries for its own use. Because of the seasonal
nature and volatility of quantities of most of the crops on which the Company
depends, it is necessary to prepare and freeze stocks of fruit, fruit juices,
berries, and other food products and to maintain them in cold storage
warehouses. Sweeteners, peanuts, and other ingredients are obtained from
various other sources.

Trademarks.

The Company’s products are marketed under numerous trademarks
owned by the Company. Major trademarks include:

Smucker’s, The R. W. Knudsen
Family, After The Fall, Simply Nutritious, Mary Ellen, Dickinson’s, Lost Acres,
IXL, Adams, Laura Scudder’s, Simply Fruit, Good Morning, Double Fruit, Goober,
Magic Shell, Sundae Syrup, Recharge, Santa Cruz Organic, Sunberry Farms,
Spritzer, Smucker’s Snackers, Uncrustables, Purely Fruit

and

Smucker’s Baking
Healthy

. In addition, the Company licenses the use of several other
trademarks, none of which individually is material to the Company’s business.

Other slogans or designs considered to be important Company trademarks
include (without limitation) the slogan, “With a name like

Smucker’s,

it has to
be good”, “Over 100 Years of Family-Made Goodness”, the

Smucker’s

banner, the
Crock Jar shape, the Gingham design, and the strawberry logo.

Seasonality.

Historically, the Company’s business has not been highly
seasonal.

Working Capital.

Working capital requirements are greatest during the
late spring and summer months due to seasonal procurement of fruits, berries,
and peanuts.

Customers.

The Company is not dependent either on a single customer or on
a very few customers for a major part of its sales. No single domestic or
foreign customer accounts for more than 10% of consolidated sales.



Orders.

Generally, orders are filled within a few days of receipt and the
backlog of unfilled orders at any particular time is not material.

Government Business.

No material portion of the Company’s business is
subject to negotiation of profits or termination of contracts at the election
of the government.

Competition.

The Company is the U.S. market leader in the fruit spreads,
dessert topping, health and natural foods beverages, natural peanut butter, and
peanut butter combination categories. The Company’s business is highly
competitive as all its brands compete for retail shelf space with other
advertised and branded products as well as unadvertised and private label
products. The growth of alternative store formats (i.e., warehouse club and
mass merchandise stores) and changes in business practices, resulting from both
technological advances and new industry techniques, have added additional
variables for companies in the food industry to consider in order to remain
competitive. The principal methods of and factors in competition are product
quality, price, advertising, and promotion.

Research and Development.

The Company predominantly utilizes in-house
resources to both develop new products and improve existing products in each of
its business areas. In relation to consolidated assets and operating expenses,
amounts expensed for research and development in each of the areas and in the
aggregate were not material in any of the last three years.

Environmental Matters.

Compliance with the provisions of federal, state,
and local environmental regulations regarding either the discharge of materials
into the environment or the protection of the environment is not expected to
have a material effect upon the capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive
position of the Company.

Employees.

At April 30, 2000, the Company had approximately 2,250
full-time employees, worldwide.

Segment and Geographic Information.

Information concerning international
operations for the years 2000, 1999, and 1998 is hereby incorporated by
reference from the 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders, on pages 22 through 24
under Note B: “Operating Segments”.



Item 2. Properties

The table below lists all the Company’s manufacturing and fruit processing
facilities. All of the Company’s properties are maintained and updated on a
regular basis, and the Company continues to make investment for expansion and
technological improvements. The properties listed below are owned, except for
the West Fargo, North Dakota location which is leased. The Company also leases
property in Pottstown, Pennsylvania to a subsidiary of Flowers Industries, Inc.
The corporate headquarters are located in Orrville, Ohio.

Fruit Processing Locations

Fruit Processed

Watsonville, California

Strawberries, oranges, apples, peaches,
apricots. Also, produces industrial fruit
products.

Woodburn, Oregon

Strawberries, raspberries, blackberries,
blueberries. Also, produces industrial fruit
products.

Grandview, Washington

Grapes, cherries, strawberries, cranberries,
apples, boysenberries, blackberries, red
raspberries, red currants, and pear

Oxnard, California

Strawberries

International Manufacturing Locations

Products Produced

Ste-Marie, Quebec, Canada

Fruit spreads, sweet spreads, industrial products

Kyabram, Victoria, Australia

Fruit spreads, toppings, fruit pulps, fruit bars

Livingston, Scotland

Industrial fruit products

São José do Rio Pardo, Brazil

Industrial fruit products

Item 3. Legal Proceedings

The Company is not a party to any pending legal proceeding that would be
considered material.

Item 4. Submissions of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

Not applicable.



PART II

Item 5. Market for the Registrant’s
Common Stock and Related Stockholder Matters

The information pertaining to the market for the Company’s Common Shares
and other related shareholder information is hereby incorporated by reference
from the Company’s 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders under the caption “Stock
Price Data” on page 9.

Item 6. Selected Financial Data

Five-year summaries of selected financial data for the Company and
discussions of accounting changes which materially affect the comparability of
the selected financial data are hereby incorporated by reference from the
Company’s 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders under the following captions and
page numbers: “Five-Year Summary of Selected Financial Data” on page 8, Note
A: “Accounting Policies” on pages 20 through 22, and Note C: “Nonrecurring
Charge” on page 24.

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis

Management’s discussion and analysis of results of operations and
financial condition, including a discussion of liquidity and capital resources,
is hereby incorporated by reference from the Company’s 2000 Annual Report to
Shareholders, on pages 10 through 13.

Item 7a. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are hereby
incorporated by reference from the Company’s 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders
on page 13.

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

Consolidated financial statements of the Company at April 30, 2000 and
1999, and for each of the three years in the period ended April 30, 2000, with
the report of independent auditors and selected unaudited quarterly financial
data, are hereby incorporated by reference from the Company’s 2000 Annual
Report to Shareholders on page 9 and pages 14 through 31.

Item 9. Disagreements on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None.



PART III

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

Information regarding directors and nominees for directorship is
incorporated herein by reference from the Company’s definitive Proxy Statement,
dated July 14, 2000, for the 2000 Annual Meeting of Shareholders on August 15,
2000, on pages 44 through 46, under the caption “Election of Directors”.

Executive Officers of the Company

The names, ages as of July 1, 2000, and positions of the executive
officers of the Company are listed below. All executive officers serve at the
pleasure of the Board of Directors, with no fixed term of office. All of the
officers have held various positions with the Company for more than five years.



Item 11. Executive Compensation

Information regarding the compensation of directors and executive officers
is incorporated by reference from the Company’s definitive Proxy Statement,
dated July 14, 2000, for the 2000 Annual Meeting of Shareholders on August 15,
2000, beginning with “Meetings and Committees” on page 46 and continuing
through “Pension Plan” on page 52.

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

Information regarding security ownership of certain beneficial owners, of
the named executive officers, and of directors and executive officers as a
group, is hereby incorporated by reference from the Company’s definitive Proxy
Statement, dated July 14, 2000, for the 2000 Annual Meeting of Shareholders on
August 15, 2000, on pages 54 through 56, under the caption “Ownership of Common
Shares”.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

Information regarding certain relationships and related transactions is
hereby incorporated by reference from the Company’s definitive Proxy Statement
dated July 14, 2000, for the 2000 Annual Meeting of Shareholders on August 15,
2000, beginning with “Election of Directors” on page 44 and continuing through
“Director Compensation” on page 46.



PART IV

Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedule and Reports on Form 8-K

(a) 1, 2.

Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule

The index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Financial
Statement Schedule is included on page F-1 of this Report.

3.

Exhibits




Subsidiaries of the Registrant


Consent of Independent Auditors


Powers of Attorney


Financial Data Schedules

All other required exhibits are either inapplicable to the Company or require
no answer.

Copies of exhibits
are not attached hereto, but the Company will furnish
any of the foregoing exhibits

to any shareholder upon written request.
Please address inquiries to: The J. M. Smucker Company,

Strawberry Lane, Orrville, Ohio
44667, Attention: Steven J. Ellcessor, Secretary. A fee of $1 per

page will be charged to
help defray the cost of handling, copying, and return postage.

(b)

Reports on Form 8-K filed in the Fourth Quarter of 2000.

No reports on Form 8-K were required to be filed during the last
quarter of the period covered by this report.

(c)

The response to this portion of Item 14 is submitted as a separate section
of this report.

(d)

The response to this portion of Item 14 is submitted as a separate section
of this report.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report on Form 10-K
to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Date:

July 11, 2000

The J. M. Smucker Company

/s/  Steven J. Ellcessor

By: Steven J. Ellcessor

Vice President — Finance and Administration,

Secretary/Treasurer, and General Counsel

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, this Report on Form 10-K has been signed below by the following
persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the date
indicated.



THE J. M. SMUCKER COMPANY

ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

ITEMS 14(a) (1) AND (2), (c) AND (d)

INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE

CERTAIN EXHIBITS

FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE

All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable or because
the information required is included in the Consolidated Financial Statements
or the notes thereto.

F-1


THE J. M. SMUCKER COMPANY

SCHEDULE II — VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

YEARS ENDED APRIL 30, 2000, 1999, AND 1998

(Dollars in Thousands)

(A) Uncollectible accounts written off, net of recoveries.

F-2