10-K


a06-2628_110k.htm

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 AND 15(D)

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION

Washington,
D.C. 20549

Form 10-K

(Mark One)

x

ANNUAL
REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF

For
the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005

or

o

TRANSITION
REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF

For
the transition period from                   
to

Commission
file number 1-8895

HEALTH CARE PROPERTY
INVESTORS, INC.

(Exact name of registrant
as specified in its charter)

Registrant’s
telephone number, including area code (562) 733-5100

Securities registered
pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a
well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.   Yes

x

No

o

Indicate by check mark if
the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of
the Act.   Yes

o

No

x

Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant; (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12
months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file
such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for
the past 90 days.   Yes

x

No

o

Indicate by check mark if
disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K
(§ 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

o

Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a
non-accelerated filer. See definition of “Accelerated Filer and Large
Accelerated Filer” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (check
one):    Large Accelerated Filer

x

Acce

lerated
Filer

o

Non-accelerated Fil

er

o

Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined by Rule 12b-2
of the Act.) Yes

o

No

x

State the aggregate market
value of the voting and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates
computed by reference to the price at which the common equity was last sold, or
the average bid and asked price of such common equity, as of the last business
day of the registrant’s most recently completed second fiscal quarter:
$3,667,965,184.

As of January 31, 2006
there were 136,199,799 shares of common stock outstanding.

DOCUMENTS
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions
of the definitive Proxy Statement for the registrant’s 2006 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders have been incorporated into Part III of this Report.

PART I

ITEM 1.

Business

Business Overview

Health Care Property Investors, Inc., together
with its consolidated subsidiaries and joint ventures (collectively, “HCP” or
the “Company”), invests primarily in real estate serving the healthcare
industry in the United States. Health Care Property Investors, Inc. is a
Maryland real estate investment trust (“REIT”) organized in 1985. The Company
is headquartered in Long Beach, California, with operations in Nashville,
Tennessee, and its portfolio includes interests in 527 properties in 42 states.
The Company acquires healthcare facilities and leases them to healthcare
providers and provides mortgage financing secured by healthcare facilities. The
Company’s portfolio includes: (i) senior housing, including independent
living facilities (“ILFs”), assisted living facilities (“ALFs”), and continuing
care retirement communities (“CCRCs”); (ii) medical office buildings (“MOBs”);
(iii) hospitals; (iv) skilled nursing facilities (“SNFs”); and (v) other
healthcare facilities, including laboratory and office buildings. For business
segment financial data, see our consolidated financial statements included
elsewhere in this report.

References herein to “HCP,” the “Company,” “we,” “us”
and “our” include Health Care Property Investors, Inc. and its
consolidated subsidiaries and joint ventures, unless the context otherwise
requires.

On our internet website, www.hcpi.com,
you can access, free of charge, our annual report on Form 10-K,
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K,
and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or
15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after such
material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and
Exchange Commission (“SEC”). In addition, the SEC maintains an internet website
that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information
regarding issuers, including HCP, that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov.

Healthcare Industry

Healthcare is the single
largest industry in the United States, representing 15.3% of U.S. Gross
Domestic Product (“GDP”) in 2003 and growing at a rate faster than the overall
economy.

Healthcare
Expenditures Rising as a Percentage of GDP

Source: Centers for
Medicare and Medicaid, December 2005. Compound Annual Growth Rate (“CAGR”)


The delivery of healthcare
services requires real estate and as a consequence, healthcare providers depend
on real estate to maintain and grow their businesses. HCP believes that the
current healthcare real estate market provides an investment opportunity for
investors based on:

·

Likelihood
of consolidation of the fragmented healthcare real estate sector;

·

Specialized
nature of healthcare real estate investing; and

·

Compelling
demographics driving the demand for healthcare services.

Senior citizens are the
largest consumers of healthcare services. According to the Centers for Medicare
and Medicaid, on a per capita basis, the 75 years and older segment of the
population spends 75% more on healthcare than the 65 to 74-year-old
segment and nearly 400% more than the population average.

U.S. Population Over 65 Years Old

Source: U.S. Census
Bureau, Statistical Abstract of the United States: 2004-2005.

Business Strategy

We are organized to invest
in healthcare related facilities. Our primary goal is to increase shareholder
value through profitable growth. Our investment strategy to achieve this goal
is based on three principles—opportunistic investing, portfolio
diversification, and conservative financing.

Opportunistic Investing

We make real estate
investments that are expected to drive profitable growth and create long-term
shareholder value. We attempt to position ourselves to create and take
advantage of situations where we believe the opportunities meet our goals and
investment criteria. We invest in properties directly and through joint
ventures, and provide secured financing, depending on the nature of the
investment opportunity.

Portfolio Diversification

We believe in maintaining
a portfolio of healthcare-related real estate diversified by sector, geography,
operator and investment product. Diversification within the healthcare industry
reduces the likelihood that a single event would materially harm our business.
This allows us to take advantage of opportunities in different markets based on
individual market dynamics. While pursuing our strategy of


maintaining
diversification in our portfolio, there are no specific limitations on the
percentage of our total assets that may be invested in any one property,
property type, geographic location or in the number of properties which we may
invest, lease or lend to a single operator. With investments in multiple
sectors of healthcare real estate, HCP can focus on opportunities with the best
risk/reward profile for the portfolio as a whole, rather than having to choose
from transactions within a specific property type.

Conservative Financing

We believe a conservative
balance sheet provides us with the ability to execute our opportunistic
investing approach and portfolio diversification principles. We maintain our
conservative balance sheet by actively managing our debt to equity levels and
maintaining available sources of liquidity, such as our revolving line of
credit. Our debt is primarily fixed rate, which reduces the impact of rising interest
rates on our operations. Generally, we attempt to match the long-term duration
of our leases with long-term fixed rate financing.

In underwriting our
investments, we structure and adjust the price of the investment in accordance
with our assessment of risk. We may structure transactions as master leases,
require indemnifications, obtain enhancements in the form of letters of credit
or security deposits, and take other measures to mitigate risk. We finance our
investments based on our evaluation of available sources of funding. For
short-term purposes, we may utilize our revolving line of credit or arrange for
other short-term borrowings from banks or other sources. We arrange for
longer-term financing through public offerings or from institutional investors.
We may incur additional indebtedness or issue preferred or common stock.

We may incur additional
mortgage indebtedness on real estate we acquire. We may also obtain
non-recourse or other mortgage financing on unleveraged properties in which we
have invested or may refinance existing debt on properties acquired.

Competition

Our properties compete
with the facilities of other landlords and healthcare providers. The landlords
and operators of these competing properties may have capital resources substantially
in excess of ours or of the operators of our facilities. The occupancy and
rental income at our properties depend upon several factors, including the
number of physicians using the healthcare facilities or referring patients to
the facilities, competing properties and healthcare providers, and the size and
composition of the population in the surrounding area. Private, federal and
state payment programs and the effect of laws and regulations may also have a
significant influence on the profitability of the properties and their tenants.
Virtually all of our properties operate in a competitive environment in which
tenants, patients and referral sources, including physicians, may change their
preferences for a healthcare facility from time to time.

Investing in real estate
is highly competitive. We face competition from other REITs, investment
companies, healthcare operators and other institutional investors when we
attempt to acquire properties. Increased competition reduces the number of
opportunities that meet our investment criteria. If we do not identify
investments that meet our investment criteria, our ability to increase
shareholder value through profitable growth may be limited.

2005 Overview

Real Estate Transactions

During
2005, we acquired interests in properties and made secured loans aggregating $647
million with an average yield of 7.7%. Our 2005 investments were made in the
following healthcare sectors: (i) 62% senior housing facilities; (ii) 32%
medical office buildings; and (iii) 6% hospitals. 2005 investments
included the following:

·

On April 20, 2005, we
acquired five assisted living facilities for $58 million through a
sale-leaseback transaction. These facilities have an initial lease term of 15
years, with two ten-year renewal options. The initial annual lease rate is 9.0%
with annual escalators based on the Consumer Price Index


(“CPI”) that have a
floor of 2.75%. These properties are included in a master lease that has 21 properties
leased to the operator.

·

On April 28, 2005, we
acquired five medical office buildings for approximately $81 million, including
assumed debt valued at $29 million. The initial yield is 7.0%, with two
properties currently in lease-up. The yield following lease-up is expected to
be 8.2%. The medical office buildings include approximately 537,000 rentable
square feet.

·

On July 1, 2005, we
acquired an assisted living facility for $16 million through a sale-leaseback
transaction. The facility has an initial lease term of 15 years, with two
ten-year renewal options. The initial annual lease rate is 8.75% with annual
CPI-based escalators that have a floor of 2.75%.

·

On July 22, 2005, we
acquired twelve independent and assisted living facilities for approximately
$252 million, including assumed debt and non-managing member LLC units (“DownREIT
units”) valued at $52 million and $19 million, respectively, through a
sale-leaseback transaction. These facilities have an initial lease term of 15
years, with three ten-year renewal options. The initial annual lease rate is
7.1% with annual CPI-based escalators that have a floor of 3%.

·

On August 31, 2005, we
acquired five assisted living facilities for $41 million through a
sale-leaseback transaction. These facilities have an initial lease term of 15
years, with two ten-year renewal options. The initial annual lease rate is 8.5%
with annual CPI-based escalators that have a floor of 2.75%. These properties
are included in a master lease that has 21 properties leased to the operator.

·

On October 19, 2005,
we acquired seven medical office buildings for $51 million, including assumed
debt and DownREIT units valued at $24 million and $11 million, respectively. The
medical office buildings include approximately 351,000 rentable square feet and
have an initial yield of 8.2%.

·

On December 22, 2005,
we acquired two independent and assisted living facilities for $18 million
through a sale-leaseback transaction. The facilities have an initial lease term
of 15 years, with two ten-year renewal options. The initial annual lease rate
is 8.5% with annual CPI-based escalators that have a floor of 2.75%. These
properties are included in a master lease that has 21 properties leased to the
operator.

·

On December 23, 2005,
we acquired two medical office buildings for $25 million. The medical office
buildings include approximately 152,000 rentable square feet and have an
initial yield of 7.4%.

·

On December 28, 2005,
we closed a $40 million loan secured by a hospital in Texas. The note bears
interest at 8.75% per annum. Subject to certain performance conditions, we may
fund an additional $10 million under the existing loan agreement.

·

During 2005, we sold
interests in 20 properties for $71 million and recognized gains of $10 million.

Capital Markets Transactions

·

On
April 27, 2005, we issued $250 million of 5.625% senior unsecured notes
due 2017. The notes were priced at 99.585% of the principal amount with an
effective yield of 5.673%. We received proceeds of $247 million, which were
used to repay outstanding indebtedness and for general corporate purposes.

·

On
September 16, 2005, we issued $200 million of 4.875% senior unsecured
notes due 2010. The notes were priced at 99.567% of the principal amount with
an effective yield of 4.974%. We received net proceeds of $198 million, which
were used to repay outstanding indebtedness and for general corporate purposes.

·

During the year ended December 31, 2005, we
issued approximately 878,000 shares of our common stock under our Dividend
Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan at an average price per share of $25.80
for proceeds of $23 million.


Other Events

·

Quarterly
dividends paid during 2005 aggregated to $1.68 per share. On February 6, 2006,
we announced that our Board of Directors declared a quarterly common stock cash
dividend of $0.425 per share. The common stock dividend will be paid on
February 23, 2006, to stockholders of record as of the close of business on
February 13, 2006. This dividend equals $1.70 per share on an annualized basis.
Our Board of Directors has determined to continue its policy of considering
dividend increases on an annual rather than quarterly basis.

Properties

Portfolio Summary

Our
portfolio of investments at December 31, 2005 includes direct investments
in healthcare related properties, mortgage loans, and investments through joint
ventures. Our properties include senior housing facilities, medical office
buildings, hospitals, skilled nursing facilities, and other healthcare
facilities. As of and for the year ended December 31, 2005, our portfolio
of investments, excluding assets held for sale and classified as discontinued
operations, consists of the following (square feet and dollars in thousands):

(1)

Senior housing facilities are stated in units (e.g.,
studio, one or two bedroom units). Medical office buildings and other healthcare
facilities are measured in square feet. Hospitals and skilled nursing
facilities are measured by licensed bed count.

(2)

Investment for owned properties represents the carrying
amount of real estate assets, including intangibles, after adding back accumulated
depreciation and amortization, and excludes assets held for sale and classified
as discontinued operations. Investment for mortgage loans receivable and
unconsolidated joint ventures represents the carrying amount of our investment.


(3)

Net Operating Income from Continuing
Operations (“NOI”) is a non-GAAP supplemental financial measure used to
evaluate the operating performance of real estate properties. We define NOI as
rental revenues, including tenant reimbursements, less property level operating
expenses, which exclude depreciation and amortization, general and
administrative expenses, impairments, interest expense and discontinued
operations. We believe NOI provides investors relevant and useful information
because it measures the operating performance of our real estate at the
property level on an unleveraged basis. We use NOI to make decisions about
resource allocations and assess property level performance. We believe that net
income is the most directly comparable GAAP (U.S. generally accepted accounting
principals) measure to NOI. NOI should not be viewed as an alternative measure
of operating performance to net income as defined by GAAP since it does not
reflect the aforementioned excluded items. Further, NOI may not be comparable
to that of other real estate investment trusts, as they may use different
methodologies for calculating NOI. The following reconciles NOI to Net Income
for 2005 (in thousands):

Unconsolidated
Joint Ventures

The
following is summarized unaudited information for our unconsolidated joint
ventures as of and for the year ended December 31, 2005 (square feet and
dollars in thousands):


Property Type

Number of

Properties

Capacity(1)

Square

Feet

Joint Venture

Investment(2)

Total

Revenues

Total

Operating

Expenses

NOI(3)

Senior housing facilities


  Units


$

20,111

$

2,205

$


$

1,861

Medical office buildings


4,286
  Sq. ft.

4,286

420,703

73,786

32,666

41,120

Total


4,521

$

440,814

$

75,991

$

33,010

$

42,981

(1)

Senior
housing facilities are stated in units (e.g., studio, one or two bedroom units)
and medical office buildings are measured in square feet.

(2)

Represents
the carrying amount of real estate assets within the joint venture, including
intangibles, after adding back accumulated depreciation and amortization and
excludes assets held for sale and classified as discontinued operations.

(3)

Net Operating Income from Continuing Operations (“NOI”)
is a non-GAAP supplemental financial measure used to evaluate the operating
performance of real estate properties. We define NOI as rental revenues, including
tenant reimbursements, less property level operating expenses, which exclude
depreciation and amortization, general and administrative expenses,
impairments, interest expense and discontinued operations. We believe NOI
provides investors relevant and useful information because it measures the
operating performance of our real estate at the property level on an
unleveraged basis. We use NOI to make decisions about resource allocations and
assess property level performance. We believe that net income is the most
directly comparable GAAP measure to NOI. NOI should not be viewed as an
alternative measure of operating performance to net income as defined by GAAP
since it does not reflect the aforementioned excluded items. Further, NOI may
not be comparable to that of other real estate investment trusts, as they may
use different methodologies for calculating NOI.

Healthcare Sectors
and Property Types

We have investments in senior housing facilities,
medical office buildings, hospitals, skilled nursing facilities, and other
healthcare facilities. Certain tenants of our properties are reliant on
government reimbursements, such as those from Medicare and Medicaid—See
Governmental Regulation for the


potential impact on the
value of our investments and our results of operations. The following describes
the nature of the operations of our tenants and borrowers.

Senior Housing Facilities.

We have interests in 140 senior housing facilities,
including four properties in unconsolidated joint ventures. Senior housing
properties include ILFs, ALFs and CCRCs, which cater to different segments of
the elderly population based upon their needs. Services provided by our tenants
in these facilities are primarily paid for by the residents directly or through
private insurance and are less reliant on government reimbursement such as
Medicaid and Medicare.

·

Independent Living Facilities.

ILFs

are designed to meet the needs of seniors who choose to
live in an environment surrounded by their peers with services such as
housekeeping, meals and activities. These residents generally do not need
assistance with activities of daily living (“ADLs”), including bathing, eating
and dressing; however, residents have the option to contract for these
services.

·

Assisted Living Facilities.

ALFs are licensed care
facilities that provide personal care services, support and housing for those
who need help with ADLs yet require limited medical care. The programs and
services may include transportation, social activities, exercise and fitness
programs, beauty or barber shop access, hobby and craft activities, community
excursions, meals in a dining room setting and other activities sought by
residents. These facilities are often in apartment-like buildings with private
residences ranging from single rooms to large apartments. Certain ALFs may
offer higher levels of personal assistance for residents with Alzheimer’s
disease or other forms of dementia, based in part on local regulations.

·

Continuing Care Retirement Communities.

CCRCs provide
housing and health-related services under long-term contracts. This alternative
is appealing to residents as it eliminates the need for relocating when health
and medical needs change, thus allowing residents to “age in place.” Some CCRCs
require a substantial entry fee or buy-in fee, and most also charge monthly
maintenance fees in exchange for a living unit, meals and some health services.
CCRCs typically require the individual to be in relatively good health and
independent upon entry.

Medical
Office Buildings.

We have interests in 170 MOBs,
including 63 properties owned by HCP Medical Office Portfolio, LLC (“HCP MOP”).
These facilities typically contain physicians’ offices and examination rooms,
and may also include pharmacies, hospital ancillary service space and
outpatient services such as diagnostic centers, rehabilitation clinics and
day-surgery operating rooms. While these facilities are similar to commercial
office buildings, they require more plumbing, electrical and mechanical systems
to accommodate multiple exam rooms that require sinks in every room, brighter
lights and special equipment such as medical gases.

Hospitals.

We
have interests in 29 hospitals, which include 17 acute care, three long-term
acute care and nine rehabilitation hospitals. Services provided by our tenants in these facilities are paid for by
private sources, third party payors (e.g., insurance and HMOs), or through the
Medicare and Medicaid programs.

·

Acute Care Hospitals.

Acute care hospitals offer a
wide range of services such as fully-equipped operating and recovery rooms,
obstetrics, radiology, intensive care, open heart surgery and coronary care,
neurosurgery, neonatal intensive care,
magnetic resonance imaging, nursing units, oncology, clinical laboratories,
respiratory therapy, physical therapy, nuclear medicine, rehabilitation
services and outpatient services.

·

Long-Term Acute Care Hospitals.

Long-term acute care
hospitals provide care for patients with complex medical conditions that
require longer stays and more intensive care, monitoring, or emergency back-up
than that available in most skilled nursing-based sub-acute programs.


·

Rehabilitation Hospitals.

Rehabilitation hospitals
provide inpatient and outpatient care for patients who have sustained traumatic
injuries or illnesses, such as spinal cord injuries, strokes, head injuries,
orthopedic problems, work-related disabilities and neurological diseases.

Skilled
Nursing Facilities.

We have interests in 165
SNFs. SNFs

offer restorative, rehabilitative
and custodial nursing care for people not requiring the more extensive and
sophisticated treatment available at hospitals. Ancillary revenues and revenue
from sub-acute care services are derived from providing services to residents
beyond room and board and include occupational, physical, speech, respiratory
and intravenous therapy, wound care, oncology treatment, brain injury care and
orthopedic therapy as well as sales of pharmaceutical products and other
services. Certain skilled nursing facilities provide some of the foregoing
services on an out-patient basis. Skilled nursing services provided by our
tenants in these facilities are primarily paid for either by private sources,
or through the Medicare and Medicaid programs.

Other Healthcare
Facilities.

We have investments in ten
healthcare laboratory and biotech research facilities. These facilities are designed to
accommodate research and development in the bio-pharmaceutical industry, drug
discovery and development, and predictive and personalized medicine. We also
have investments in five physician group practice clinic facilities leased to
five different tenants, six health and wellness centers, and two facilities
used for other healthcare purposes. The physician group practice clinics
generally provide a broad range of medical services through organized physician
groups representing various medical specialties. Health and wellness centers
provide testing and preventative health maintenance services.

Investment Products

Owned and Joint
Venture Property Investments

As of December 31,
2005, we had investments in 527 properties, including 67 properties through
joint ventures; Whether owned wholly or through joint ventures, the owned
properties may be characterized as one of three types: triple-net leased
property, operating property or development property.

Triple-net Leased
Properties:

Triple-net leased properties are generally
single-tenant buildings leased to a healthcare provider under a triple-net
lease. Pursuant to triple-net leases, tenants pay base rent and additional rent
to us and pay all operating expenses incurred at the property, including
utilities, property taxes, insurance, and repairs and maintenance. Certain
leases contain annual base rent escalations based on a predetermined fixed
rate, an inflation index or some other factor. Other leases may require tenants
to pay additional rent based upon a percentage of the facility’s revenue in
excess of the revenue for a specific base period or threshold.

The first year
annual base rental rates on properties we acquired during 2005 ranged from 7%
to 9% of the purchase price of the property. Rental rates vary by lease, taking
into consideration many factors, including:

·

creditworthiness
of the tenant;

·

operating
performance of the facility;

·

cost
of capital at the inception of the lease;

·

location,
type and physical condition of the facility;

·

barriers
to entry, such as certificates of need, competitive development and
constraining high land costs; and

·

lease
term.


Our hospitals, skilled
nursing facilities, and senior housing facilities are typically leased on a
triple-net basis with initial terms that range from five to 15 years, and
generally have one or more renewal options. As of December 31, 2005, the
weighted average remaining term, excluding unexercised renewal options, on
these triple-net leased properties is approximately eight years.

Operating
Properties:

Our operating properties are typically multi-tenant
medical office buildings that are leased to multiple healthcare providers
(hospitals and physician practices) under a gross, modified gross or net lease
structure. Under a gross or modified gross lease, all or a portion of operating
expenses are not reimbursed by tenants. Most of our owned MOBs are managed by
third party property management companies and 19 are leased on a net basis
while 88 are leased to multiple tenants under gross or modified gross leases
pursuant to which we are responsible for certain operating expenses. Regardless
of lease structure, most of our leases at operating properties include annual
base rent escalation clauses that are either predetermined fixed increases or
are a function of an inflation index, and typically have an initial term
ranging from one to fourteen years, with a weighted average remaining term of
approximately five years as of December 31, 2005.

The
following table reflects the reduction in revenue (based on 2005 revenue) for
owned triple-net leased and operating properties resulting from lease
expirations, absent the impact of renewals, if any (in thousands):

Development
Properties:

We generally commit to
development projects when they are at least 50% pre-leased. We use internal and
external construction management expertise to evaluate local market conditions,
construction costs and other factors to seek appropriate risk adjusted returns.
During 2005, we completed and placed into service approximately $5 million of
owned development properties. In addition, during 2005, HCP MOP completed and
placed into service approximately $8 million of development properties. As of December 31,
2005, we have an interest in four properties under development.

Secured Loan
Investments

We have investments in 13
mortgage loans secured by 25 properties that are owned and operated by 11 healthcare
providers. Our secured loan investments typically consist of senior mortgages
or mezzanine financing on individual properties or a pool of properties. At December 31,
2005, the carrying amount of these mortgage loans totaled $175.4 million.
Initial interest rates on mortgage loans outstanding at December 31, 2005
range from 7.5% to 13.5% per annum. At December 31, 2005, minimum future
principal payments to be received on secured loans receivable are $66.5 million
in 2006, $8.8 million in 2007, $2.4 million in 2008, $7.2 million in 2009,
$39.8 million in 2010, and $50.7 million thereafter. Our mortgage loans
generally include prepayment penalties or yield maintenance provisions.


Operator Concentration

The
following table provides information about the concentration of business with
our top five operators for the year ended December 31, 2005 (dollars in
thousands):

Operators

Facilities

Investment(1)

Percentage

of Revenue

Tenet Healthcare
  Corporation (NYSE:THC) (“Tenet”)


$

423,497


%

American
  Retirement Corporation (NYSE:ARC) (“ARC”)


399,854


Emeritus
  Corporation (AMEX:ESC) (“Emeritus”)


245,775


Kindred
  Healthcare, Inc. (NASDAQ:KIND)


79,554


HealthSouth Corporation
  (OTC:HLSH.PK) (“HealthSouth”)


108,301


(1)

Represents the carrying
amount of real estate assets, including intangibles, after adding back
accumulated depreciation and amortization.

All of our properties
associated with the aforementioned operators are under triple-net leases. These
operators are subject to the informational filing requirements of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and are required to file periodic
reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Financial and other
information relating to these operators may be obtained from their public
reports.

According to public
disclosures by Tenet and HealthSouth, each is experiencing various legal,
financial, and regulatory difficulties. We cannot predict with certainty the
impact, if any, of the outcome of these uncertainties on their financial
condition. The failure or inability of these operators to pay their obligations
could materially reduce our revenues, net income and cash flows, which could in
turn reduce the amount of cash available for the payment of dividends, cause
our stock price to decline and cause us to incur impairment charges or a loss
on the sale of the properties.

One of our hospitals
located in Tarzana, California is operated by Tenet and is affected by State of
California Senate Bill 1953, which requires certain seismic safety building
standards for acute care hospital facilities. See “Government Regulation—California
Senate Bill 1953” for more information.

Joint Ventures

Consolidated Joint Ventures

At December 31,
2005, we held ownership interests in 22 consolidated limited liability
companies and partnerships that together own 91 properties and one mortgage as
follows:

·

A
77% interest in Health Care Property Partners, which owns two hospitals, 13
skilled nursing facilities and has one mortgage on a skilled nursing facility.

·

Interests
varying between 90% and 97% in six partnerships (HCPI/San Antonio Ltd.
Partnership; HCPI/Colorado Springs Ltd. Partnership; HCPI/Little Rock Ltd.
Partnership; HCPI/Kansas Ltd. Partnership; Fayetteville Health Associates Ltd.
Partnership; and Wichita Health Associates Ltd. Partnership), that each of
which own a hospital.

·

A
90% interest in three limited liability companies (ARC La Barc Real Estate
Holdings, LLC; ARC Holland Real Estate Holdings, LLC; and ARC Sun City Real
Estate Holdings, LLC) that each own a senior housing facility.

·

An
80% interest in five limited liability companies (Vista-Cal Associates, LLC;
Statesboro Associates, LLC; Ft. Worth-Cal Associates, LLC; Perris-Cal
Associates, LLC; and Louisiana-Two Associates, LLC) that own a total of six
skilled nursing facilities.


·

A
93% interest in HCPI/Sorrento, LLC, which owns a life science facility.

·

A
94% interest in HCPI/Indiana, LLC, which owns six medical office buildings.

·

A
28% interest in HCPI/Tennessee, LLC, which owns 14 medical office buildings and
one assisted living facility.

·

A
70% interest in HCPI/Utah, LLC, which owns 18 medical office buildings.

·

A
66% interest in HCPI/Utah II, LLC, which owns eight medical office buildings
and eight other healthcare facilities.

·

A
72% interest in HCP DR California, LLC, which owns four independent and
assisted living facilities.

·

An initial 100% interest in
HCPI/Idaho Falls, LLC, which owns one hospital.

Unconsolidated Joint Ventures

At December 31,
2005, we held ownership interests in five unconsolidated limited liability
companies and partnerships that together own 97 properties as follows:

·

A
33% interest in HCP MOP which owns 93 medical office buildings. At December 31,
2005, 30 assets owned by HPC MOP

were
held for sale and classified as discontinued operations

.

·

A 45% to 50% interest in
each of four limited liability companies (Seminole Shores Living Center, LLC—50%,
Edgewood Assisted Living Center, LLC—45%, Arborwood Living Center, LLC—45%, and
Greenleaf Living Center, LLC—45%) that each own an assisted living facility.

Taxation of HCP

We believe that we have
operated in such a manner as to qualify for taxation as a REIT under Sections
856 to 860 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”),
commencing with our taxable year ended December 31, 1985, and we intend to
continue to operate in such a manner. No assurance can be given that we have
operated or will be able to continue to operate in a manner so as to qualify or
to remain so qualified. This summary is qualified in its entirety by the
applicable Code provisions, rules and regulations promulgated thereunder,
and administrative and judicial interpretations thereof.

If we qualify for taxation
as a REIT, we will generally not be required to pay federal corporate income
taxes on the portion of our net income that is currently distributed to
stockholders. This treatment substantially eliminates the “double taxation”
(i.e., at the corporate and stockholder levels) that generally results from
investment in a corporation. However, we will be required to pay federal income
tax under certain circumstances.

The Code defines a REIT as
a corporation, trust or association (i) which is managed by one or more
trustees or directors; (ii) the beneficial ownership of which is evidenced
by transferable shares, or by transferable certificates of beneficial interest;
(iii) which would be taxable, but for Sections 856 through 860 of the
Code, as a domestic corporation; (iv) which is neither a financial
institution nor an insurance company subject to certain provisions of the Code;
(v) the beneficial ownership of which is held by 100 or more persons;
(vi) during the last half of each taxable year not more than 50% in value
of the outstanding stock of which is owned, actually or constructively, by five
or fewer individuals; and (vii) which meets certain other tests, described
below, regarding the amount of its distributions and the nature of its income
and assets. The Code provides that conditions (i) to (iv), inclusive, must
be met during the entire taxable year and that condition (v) must be met
during at least 335 days of a taxable year of 12 months, or during a
proportionate part of a taxable year of less than 12 months.


There are presently two gross income requirements.
First, at least 75% of our gross income (excluding gross income from “prohibited
transactions” as defined below) for each taxable year must be derived directly
or indirectly from investments relating to real property or mortgages on real
property or from certain types of temporary investment income. Second, at least
95% of our gross income (excluding gross income from prohibited transactions)
for each taxable year must be derived from income that qualifies under the 75%
test and all other dividends, interest and gain from the sale or other
disposition of stock or securities. A “prohibited transaction” is a sale or
other disposition of property (other than foreclosure property) held for sale
to customers in the ordinary course of business.

At the close of each quarter of our taxable year, we
must also satisfy four tests relating to the nature of our assets. First, at
least 75% of the value of our total assets must be represented by real estate
assets, certain stock or debt instruments purchased with the proceeds of a
stock offering or long term public debt offering by us (but only for the
one-year period after such offering), cash, cash items and government
securities. Second, not more than 25% of our total assets may be represented by
securities other than those in the 75% asset class. Third, of the investments
included in the 25% asset class, the value of any one issuer’s securities owned
by us may not exceed 5% of the value of our total assets and we may not own
more than 10% of the vote or value of the securities of a non-REIT corporation,
other than certain debt securities and interests in taxable REIT subsidiaries
or qualified REIT subsidiaries, each as defined below. Fourth, not more than
20% of the value of our total assets may be represented by securities of one or
more taxable REIT subsidiaries.

We own interests in various partnerships and limited
liability companies. In the case of a REIT that is a partner in a partnership
or a member of a limited liability company that is treated as a partnership
under the Code, Treasury Regulations provide that for purposes of the REIT
income and asset tests, the REIT will be deemed to own its proportionate share
of the assets of the partnership or limited liability company (determined in
accordance with its capital interest in the entity), subject to special rules related
to the 10% asset test, and will be deemed to be entitled to the income of the
partnership or limited liability company attributable to such share. The
ownership of an interest in a partnership or limited liability company by a
REIT may involve special tax risks, including the challenge by the Internal
Revenue Service (the “Service”) of the allocations of income and expense items
of the partnership or limited liability company, which would affect the
computation of taxable income of the REIT, and the status of the partnership or
limited liability company as a partnership (as opposed to an association
taxable as a corporation) for federal income tax purposes.

We also own interests in a number of subsidiaries
which are intended to be treated as qualified REIT subsidiaries (each a “QRS”).
The Code provides that such subsidiaries will be ignored for federal income tax
purposes and all assets, liabilities and items of income, deduction and credit
of such subsidiaries will be treated as our assets, liabilities and such items.
If any partnership, limited liability company, or subsidiary in which we own an
interest were treated as a regular corporation (and not as a partnership, QRS
or taxable REIT subsidiary, as the case may be) for federal income tax
purposes, we would likely fail to satisfy the REIT asset tests described above
and would therefore fail to qualify as a REIT, unless certain relief provisions
apply. We believe that each of the partnerships, limited liability companies,
and subsidiaries (other than taxable REIT subsidiaries) in which we own an
interest will be treated for tax purposes as a partnership, or disregarded
entity (in the case of a 100% owned partnership or limited liability company)
or QRS, as applicable, although no assurance can be given that the Service will
not successfully challenge the status of any such organization.

As of December 31,
2005, we owned interests in two subsidiaries which are intended to be treated
as taxable REIT subsidiaries (each a “TRS”). A REIT may own any percentage of
the voting stock and value of the securities of a corporation which jointly
elects with the REIT to be a TRS, provided certain requirements are met. A TRS
generally may engage in any business, including the provision of customary or
noncustomary services to tenants of its parent REIT and of others, except a TRS
may not manage or


operate
a hotel or healthcare facility. A TRS is treated as a regular corporation and
is subject to federal income tax and applicable state income and franchise
taxes at regular corporate rates. In addition, a 100% tax may be imposed on a
REIT if its rental, service or other agreements with its TRS, or the TRS’s
agreements with the REIT’s tenants, are not on arm’s-length terms.

In order to qualify as a
REIT, we are required to distribute dividends (other than capital gain
dividends) to our stockholders in an amount at least equal to (A) the sum
of (i) 90% of our “real estate investment trust taxable income” (computed
without regard to the dividends paid deduction and our net capital gain) and (ii) 90%
of the net income, if any (after tax), from foreclosure property, minus (B) the
sum of certain items of non-cash income. Such distributions must be paid in the
taxable year to which they relate, or in the following taxable year if declared
before we timely file our tax return for such year, if paid on or before the
first regular dividend payment date after such declaration and if we so elect
and specify the dollar amount in our tax return. To the extent that we do not
distribute all of our net long-term capital gain or distribute at least 90%,
but less than 100%, of our “real estate investment trust taxable income”, as
adjusted, we will be required to pay tax thereon at regular corporate tax
rates. Furthermore, if we should fail to distribute during each calendar year
at least the sum of (i) 85% of our ordinary income for such year, (ii) 95%
of our capital gain income for such year, and (iii) any undistributed
taxable income from prior periods, we would be required to pay a 4% excise tax
on the excess of such required distributions over the amounts actually
distributed.

If we fail to qualify for
taxation as a REIT in any taxable year, and certain relief provisions do not
apply, we will be required to pay tax (including any applicable alternative
minimum tax) on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. Distributions to
stockholders in any year in which we fail to qualify will not be deductible by
us nor will they be required to be made. Unless entitled to relief under
specific statutory provisions, we will also be disqualified from taxation as a
REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification
was lost. It is not possible to state whether in all circumstances we would be
entitled to the statutory relief. Failure to qualify for even one year could
substantially reduce distributions to stockholders and could result in our
incurring substantial indebtedness (to the extent borrowings are feasible) or
liquidating substantial investments in order to pay the resulting taxes.

We and our stockholders
may be required to pay state or local tax in various state or local
jurisdictions, including those in which we or they transact business or reside.
The state and local tax treatment of us and our stockholders may not conform to
the federal income tax consequences discussed above.

We may also be subject to
certain taxes applicable to REITs, including taxes in lieu of disqualification
as a REIT, on undistributed income, on income from prohibited transactions, on
net income from foreclosure property and on built-in gains from the sale of
certain assets acquired from C corporations in tax-free transactions.

Government Regulation

The
healthcare industry is heavily regulated by federal, state and local laws. This
government regulation of the healthcare industry affects us because:

(1)

Governmental
regulations such as licensure, certification for participation in government programs,
and government reimbursement may impact the financial ability of some of our
operators to make rent and debt payments to us, which in turn may affect the
value of our investments, and

(2)

The
amount of reimbursement such operators receive from the government and other
third parties may affect the amounts we receive in additional rents, which are
often based on our operators’ gross revenue from operations.


These laws and regulations are subject to frequent and
substantial changes resulting from legislation, adoption of rules and
regulations, and administrative and judicial interpretations of existing law.
These changes may have a dramatic effect on the definition of permissible or
impermissible activities, the relative costs associated with doing business and
the amount of reimbursement by government and other third-party payors. These
changes may be applied retroactively. The ultimate timing or effect of these
changes cannot be predicted. The failure of any tenant or borrower to comply
with such laws, regulations and requirements could affect its ability to
operate its facility or facilities and could adversely affect such operator’s
ability to make lease or debt payments to us.

Fraud and Abuse Laws.

There
are various federal and state laws prohibiting fraud and abusive business
practices by healthcare providers who participate in, receive payments from or
are in a position to make referrals in connection with a government-sponsored
healthcare program, including, but not limited to, the Medicare and Medicaid
programs. These include:

·

The
Federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, the offer,
payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for, or
to induce, the referral of Medicare and Medicaid patients.

·

The
Federal Physician Self-Referral Prohibition (Stark), which restricts physicians
from making referrals for certain designated health services for which payment
may be made under Medicare or Medicaid programs to an entity with which the
physician (or an immediate family member) has a financial relationship.

·

The
False Claims Act, which prohibits any person from knowingly presenting false or
fraudulent claims for payment to the federal government (including the Medicare
and Medicaid programs).

·

The
Civil Monetary Penalties Law, which is imposed by the Department of Health and
Human Services for fraudulent acts.

Each of these laws include criminal and/or civil
penalties for violations that range from punitive sanctions, damage
assessments, penalties, imprisonment, denial of Medicare and Medicaid payments,
and/or exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Imposition of any of
these types of penalties on our tenants or borrowers could result in a material
adverse effect on their operations, which could adversely affect our business.
Additionally, certain laws, such as the False Claims Act, allow for individuals
to bring

qui tam

(whistleblower)
actions on behalf of the government for violations of fraud and abuse laws.
Some Medicare fiscal intermediaries (private companies that contract with
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (“CMS”) to administer the
Medicare program) have also increased scrutiny of cost reports filed by skilled
nursing providers.

Environmental
Matters.

A wide variety of federal, state and
local environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations
affect healthcare facility operations. Under various federal, state and local
environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, an owner of real property or a
secured lender (such as us) may be liable for the costs of removal or
remediation of hazardous or toxic substances at, under or disposed of in
connection with such property, as well as other potential costs relating to
hazardous or toxic substances (including government fines and damages for
injuries to persons and adjacent property). The cost of any required
remediation, removal, fines or personal or property damages and the owner’s or
secured lender’s liability therefore could exceed the value of the property,
and/or the assets of the owner or secured lender. In addition, the presence of
such substances, or the failure to properly dispose of or remediate such
substances, may adversely affect the owner’s ability to sell or rent such
property or to borrow using such property as collateral which, in turn, would
reduce our revenue. Although the mortgage loans that we provide and the leases
covering our properties require the borrower and the tenant to indemnify us for
certain environmental liabilities, the scope of such obligations may be


limited and we cannot
assure that any such borrower or tenant would be able to fulfill its
indemnification obligations.

The
Medicare and Medicaid Programs.

Sources of
revenue for operators may include the federal Medicare program, state Medicaid
programs, private insurance carriers, healthcare service plans and health
maintenance organizations, among others. Efforts to reduce costs by these
payors will likely continue, which may result in reduced or slower growth in
reimbursement for certain services provided by some of our operators. In
addition, the failure of any of our operators to comply with various laws and
regulations could jeopardize their certification and ability to continue to
participate in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Medicaid programs differ
from state to state but they are all subject to federally-imposed requirements.
At least 50% of the funds available under these programs are provided by the
federal government under a matching program. Medicaid programs generally pay
for acute and rehabilitative care based on reasonable costs at fixed rates;
skilled nursing facilities are generally reimbursed using fixed daily rates.
Medicaid payments are generally below retail rates for tenant-operated facilities.
Increasingly, states have introduced managed care contracting techniques into
the administration of Medicaid programs. Such mechanisms could have the impact
of reducing utilization of and reimbursement to facilities. Other third party
payors in various states base payments on costs, retail rates or, increasingly,
negotiated rates. Negotiated rates can include discounts from normal charges,
fixed daily rates and prepaid capitated rates.

Healthcare
Facilities.

The healthcare facilities in our
portfolio, including hospitals, skilled nursing facilities, assisted living
facilities, and physician group practice clinics, are subject to extensive
federal, state and local licensure, certification and inspection laws and
regulations. Failure to comply with any of these laws could result in loss of
accreditation, denial of reimbursement, imposition of fines, suspension or
decertification from federal and state healthcare programs, loss of license or
closure of the facility. Such actions may have an effect on the revenue of the
operators of properties owned by or mortgaged to us and therefore adversely
impact us.

Entrance
Fee Communities.

Certain of the senior housing
facilities mortgaged to or owned by us are operated as entrance fee
communities. Generally, an entrance fee is an upfront fee or consideration paid
by a resident, a portion of which may be refundable, in exchange for some form
of long-term benefit. Some of the entrance fee communities are subject to
significant state regulatory oversight, including, for example, oversight of
each facility’s financial condition, establishment and monitoring of reserve
requirements and other financial restrictions, the right of residents to cancel
their contracts within a specified period of time, lien rights in favor of the
residents, restrictions on change of ownership and similar matters. Such
oversight and the rights of residents within these entrance fee communities may
have an effect on the revenue or operations of the operators of such facilities
and therefore may adversely impact us.

California
Senate Bill 1953.

Our hospital located in
Tarzana, California is affected by State of California Senate Bill 1953 (SB
1953), which requires certain seismic safety building standards for acute care
hospital facilities. This hospital is operated by Tenet under a lease expiring
in February 2009. We and Tenet are currently reviewing the SB 1953
compliance of this hospital, multiple plans of action to cause such compliance,
the estimated time for completing the same, and the cost of performing
necessary remediation of the property. We cannot currently estimate the
remediation costs that will need to be incurred prior to 2013 in order to make
the facility SB 1953-compliant through 2030, or the final allocation of
any remediation costs between us and Tenet. Rent on the hospital in 2005 and
2004 was $10.8 million and $10.6 million, respectively, and our carrying amount
is $76.1 million at December 31, 2005.

Nurse Staffing Ratios.

On
January 1, 2004, a California law became effective mandating specific
minimum nurse staffing ratios for acute care hospitals. As a result of this
requirement, hospital labor costs will be materially increased. Facilities may
also be forced to limit patient admissions due to an inability to


hire the necessary
number of nurses to meet the required ratio, which affects net operating
revenue. It is unclear the extent to which compliance with these nurse staffing
ratios in California may adversely affect hospital operators in California.

Current Developments

The healthcare industry continues to face various
challenges, including increased government and private payor pressure on
healthcare providers to control costs, the migration of patients from acute
care facilities into extended care and home care settings, and the vertical and
horizontal consolidation of healthcare providers.

Changes in the law, new interpretations of existing
laws, and changes in payment methodologies may have a dramatic effect on the definition
of permissible or impermissible activities, the relative costs associated with
doing business and the amount of reimbursement furnished by government and
other third-party payors. These changes may be applied retroactively under
certain circumstances. The ultimate timing or effect of legislative efforts
cannot be predicted and may impact us in different ways.

In December of 2003, the Medicare Prescription
Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (the “Act”) was signed into
law. The Act established an 18-month moratorium on the “whole hospital
exception” to the Stark law, whereby physicians have been permitted to refer
patients for Designated Health Services to hospitals in which they have an
ownership interest. The moratorium removed specialty hospitals from the “whole
hospital exception” from December 8, 2003 through June 7, 2005.
Specialty hospitals include hospitals primarily or exclusively engaged in the
care and treatment of cardiac conditions or orthopedic conditions, or hospitals
that perform certain surgical procedures. Specialty hospitals in operation or
under development as of November 18, 2003 were grandfathered under the
moratorium. The Act requires that MedPAC, an independent federal body
established to advise Congress on issues affecting the Medicare program, and
HHS conduct studies on the costs of service, utilization, quality of care and
financial impact of specialty hospitals and their physician owners relative to
community hospitals, particularly nonprofits. On January 14, 2005 MedPAC
announced that it would recommend that Congress extend the Stark specialty
hospital moratorium for an additional 18 months to January 1, 2007, to
address concerns about the effects of physician investments in specialty
hospitals. MedPAC’s recommendations were based upon its findings that when
compared with community hospitals, physician owned specialty hospitals tend to
concentrate on certain more profitable Diagnostic Related Groups (“DRGs”) and
on patients with relatively low severity within those DRGs, and tend to treat
lower percentages of Medicare patients. Congress is not obligated to follow
MedPAC’s recommendations. Legislation has been introduced in Congress (The
Hospital Fair Competition Act of 2005) that would extend the moratorium for
specialty hospitals. It is uncertain if such legislation will be enacted this
year or in subsequent sessions of Congress. Notwithstanding the uncertainty of
legislation extending the moratorium, CMS instructed Medicare Fiscal
Intermediaries to stop processing new Medicare provider enrollment applications
for specialty hospitals after June 8, 2005, pending CMS’s review of how
specialty hospitals satisfy core requirements applicable to “hospitals” under
Medicare, and how the Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act should
apply to specialty hospitals. CMS expects to complete its review in early 2006,
with further changes in 2006 to the hospital inpatient prospective payment
system to reduce the ability of specialty hospitals to take advantage of
imprecise payment rates under the current system.

In addition to the reforms enacted and considered by
Congress from time to time, state legislatures periodically consider various
healthcare reform proposals. Congress and state legislatures can be expected to
continue to review and assess alternative healthcare delivery systems, new
regulatory enforcement initiatives, and new payment methodologies.

We believe that government
and private efforts to contain or reduce healthcare costs will continue. These
trends are likely to lead to reduced or slower growth in reimbursement for
certain services provided


by some
of our operators. In addition, recent trends of hospitals providing more
services to uninsured patients or on an outpatient basis rather than inpatient
basis may continue and could adversely affect the profitability of our
operators. We believe that the vast nature of the healthcare industry, the
financial strength and operating flexibility of our operators, and the
diversity of our portfolio will mitigate the impact of any such trends.
However, we cannot predict what legislation will be adopted, and no assurance
can be given that the healthcare reforms will not have a material adverse
effect on our financial condition or results of operations.

Employees

At December 31, 2005,
we had 83 full-time employees and no part-time employees, none of whom are
subject to a collective bargaining agreement. We consider our relations with
our employees to be good.

Legal Entities

We
conduct our business through various legal entities, including the following at
December 31, 2005:

100% Owned

Consolidated Joint Ventures

Unconsolidated Joint Ventures

AHP of Nevada, Inc.

AHP of Washington, Inc.

ARC Richmond Place Real Estate Holdings, LLC

Birmingham HCP, LLC

Emeritus Realty V, LLC

ESC-La Casa Grande, LLC

Health Care Investors III

HCP 1101 Madison MOB, LLC

HCP 600 Broadway MOB, LLC

HCP AL of Florida, LLC

HCP Acquisitions, LLC

HCP Arnold MOB, LLC

HCP Ballard MOB, LLC

HCP Birmingham Portfolio, LLC

HCP Cullman MOB GP, LLC

Cullman POB Partners I, Ltd.

Cullman POB II, LLC

HCP Cullman MOB GP, LLC

HCP Cityview I, L.P.

HCP Cityview II, L.P.

HCP EGP, Inc.

HCP Kirkland, LLC

HCP Louisville, Inc.

Faulkner Hinton Suburban I, LLC

Faulkner Hinton Suburban II, LLC

HCP Medical Office Buildings I, LLC

HCP Medical Office Buildings II, LLC

HCP MOP Member, LLC

ARC Holland Real
  Estate Holdings, LLC

ARC LaBarc Real
  Estate Holdings LLC

ARC Sun City Real
  Estate Holdings, LLC

Fayetteville
  Health Associates Limited Partnership

Ft. Worth-Cal
  Associates, LLC

HCP DR
  California, LLC

HCP Pleasant, LLC

HCPI/Colorado
  Springs Ltd. Partnership

HCP CTE, L.P.

HCP ETE, L.P.

HCPI/Idaho Falls
  LLC

HCPI/Indiana, LLC

HCPI/Kansas
  Limited Partnership

HCPI/Little Rock
  Limited Partnership

HCPI/San Antonio
  Limited Partnership

HCPI/Sorrento,
  LLC

HCPI/Tennessee,
  LLC

MOB of Denver 1, LLC

MOB of Denver 2, LLC

MOB of Denver 3, LLC

MOB of Denver 4, LLC

MOB of Denver 5, LLC

MOB of Denver 6, LLC

MOB of Denver 7, LLC

Medical Office
  Buildings of California LLC

Arborwood Living
  Center, LLC

Edgewood Assisted
  Living Center, LLC

Greenleaf Living
  Centers, LLC

HCP Medical
  Office Portfolio, LLC

Seminole Shores
  Living Center, LLC


HCP NE Retail MOB, LLC

HCP Shore, LLC

HCP TRS, Inc.

Medical Office Buildings of Reston, LLC

HCPI Knightdale, Inc.

HCPI Mortgage Corp.

HCPI Trust

HCP Virginia, Inc.

Jackson HCP, LLC

McKinney HCP GP, LLC

McKinney HCP, L.P.

Meadowdome, LLC

Medcap HCPI Development, LLC

Aurora HCP, LLC

HCP Owasso MOB, LLC

Medical Office Buildings of Colorado II, LLC

Medical Office Buildings of Nevada-Southern Hills,
  LLC

Mission Springs AL, LLC

Overland Park AL, LLC

Tampa HCP, LLC

Texas HCP G.P., Inc.

Texas HCP Holding, L.P.

Texas HCP Medical G.P., Inc.

Texas HCP Medical Office Buildings, L.P.

Texas HCP, Inc.

Medical Office
  Buildings of Utah LLC

Westminster HCP,
  LLC

HCPI/Utah, LLC

Davis North I, LLC

HCPI/Utah II, LLC

HCPI/Stansbury, LLC

HCPI/Wesley, LLC

Health Care
  Property Partners

Louisiana-Two
  Associates, LLC

Perris-Cal
  Associates, LLC

Statesboro
  Associates, LLC

Vista-Cal
  Associates, LLC

Wichita Health
  Associates Limited Partnership

ITEM 1A.

Risk
Factors

You should
carefully consider the risks described below as well as the risks described in
“Competition,” “Government Regulation,” and “Taxation of HCP” and elsewhere in
this report, which risks are incorporated by reference into this section,
before making an investment decision regarding our company. The risks and
uncertainties described herein are not the only ones facing us and there may be
additional risks that we do not presently know of or that we currently consider
not likely to have a significant impact. All of these risks could adversely
affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

Risks
Related to Our Operators

If our facility operators are unable to operate our
properties in a manner sufficient to generate income, they may be unable to
make rent and loan payments to us.

The healthcare industry is
highly competitive and we expect that it may become more competitive in the
future. Our operators are subject to competition from other healthcare
providers that provide similar services. Such competition, which has
intensified due to overbuilding in some segments in which we operate, has
caused the fill-up rate of newly constructed buildings to slow and the monthly
rate that many newly built and previously existing facilities were able to
obtain for their services to decrease. The profitability of healthcare
facilities depends upon several factors, including the number of physicians
using


the
healthcare facilities or referring patients there, competitive systems of
healthcare delivery and the size and composition of the population in the
surrounding area. Private, federal and state payment programs and the effect of
other laws and regulations may also have a significant influence on the
revenues and income of the properties. If our operators are not competitive
with other healthcare providers and are unable to generate income, they may be
unable to make rent and loan payments to us, which could adversely affect our
cash flow and financial performance and condition.

The bankruptcy, insolvency or financial deterioration
of our facility operators could significantly delay our ability to collect
unpaid rents or require us to find new operators.

Our financial position and
our ability to make distributions to our stockholders may be adversely affected
by financial difficulties experienced by any of our major operators, including
bankruptcy, insolvency or a general downturn in the business, or in the event
any of our major operators do not renew or extend their relationship with us as
their lease terms expire.

We are exposed to the risk
that our operators may not be able to meet their obligations, which may result
in their bankruptcy or insolvency. Although our leases and loans provide us the
right to terminate an investment, evict an operator, demand immediate repayment
and other remedies, the bankruptcy laws afford certain rights to a party that
has filed for bankruptcy or reorganization. An operator in bankruptcy may be
able to restrict our ability to collect unpaid rents or interest during the
bankruptcy proceeding.

Tenet Healthcare Corporation accounts for a
significant percentage of our revenues and is currently experiencing significant
legal, financial and regulatory difficulties.

During 2005, Tenet
Healthcare Corporation accounted for approximately 11% of our revenues.
According to public disclosures, Tenet is experiencing significant legal,
financial and regulatory difficulties. We cannot predict with certainty the
impact, if any, of the outcome of these uncertainties on our consolidated
financial statements. The failure or inability of Tenet to pay its obligations
could materially reduce our revenue, net income and cash flows, which could
adversely affect the value of our common stock and could cause us to incur
impairment charges or a loss on the sale of the properties.

Our operators are faced with increased litigation and
rising insurance costs that may affect their ability to make their lease or
mortgage payments.

In some states, advocacy
groups have been created to monitor the quality of care at healthcare
facilities, and these groups have brought litigation against operators. Also,
in several instances, private litigation by patients has succeeded in winning
very large damage awards for alleged abuses. The effect of this litigation and
potential litigation has been to materially increase the costs of monitoring
and reporting quality of care compliance incurred by our operators. In
addition, the cost of liability and medical malpractice insurance has increased
and may continue to increase so long as the present litigation environment
affecting the operations of healthcare facilities continues. Continued cost
increases could cause our operators to be unable to make their lease or
mortgage payments, potentially decreasing our revenue and increasing our
collection and litigation costs. Moreover, to the extent we are required to
take back the affected facilities, our revenue from those facilities could be
reduced or eliminated for an extended period of time.

Decline in the skilled nursing sector and changes to
Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates may have significant adverse
consequences to us.

Certain of our skilled
nursing operators and facilities continue to experience operating problems in
part due to a national nursing shortage, increased liability insurance costs,
and low levels of Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement. Due to economic challenges
facing many states, nursing homes will likely continue to be under-funded.
These challenges have had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on our
long-term care facilities and facility operators.


Risks
Related to Real Estate Investment and Our Structure

We rely on external
sources of capital to fund future capital needs, and if our access to such
capital is difficult or on commercially unreasonable terms, we may not be able
to meet maturing commitments or make future investments necessary to grow our
business.

In order to qualify
as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code, we are required, among other things,
to distribute to our stockholders each year at least 90% of our REIT taxable
income. Because of this distribution requirement, we may not be able to fund
all future capital needs, including capital needs in connection with
acquisitions, from cash retained from operations. As a result, we rely on
external sources of capital. If we are unable to obtain needed capital at all
or only on unfavorable terms from these sources, we might not be able to make
the investments needed to grow our business, or to meet our obligations and
commitments as they mature, which could negatively affect the ratings of our
debt and even, in extreme circumstances, affect our ability to continue
operations. Our access to capital depends upon a number of factors over which
we have little or no control, including:

·

general
market conditions;

·

the
market’s perception of our growth potential;

·

our
current and potential future earnings and cash distributions; and

·

the market price of the
shares of our capital stock.

If we are unable to
identify and purchase suitable healthcare facilities at a favorable cost, we
will be unable to continue to grow through acquisitions.

Our ability to grow
through acquisitions is integral to our business strategy and requires us to
identify suitable acquisition candidates that meet our criteria and are
compatible with our growth strategy. The acquisition and financing of
healthcare facilities at favorable costs is highly competitive. We may not be
successful in identifying suitable property or other assets that meet our
acquisition criteria or in consummating acquisitions on satisfactory terms or at
all. If we cannot identify and purchase a sufficient quantity of healthcare
facilities at favorable prices, or if we are unable to finance such
acquisitions on commercially favorable terms, our business will suffer.

Unforeseen costs
associated with the acquisition of new properties could reduce our
profitability.

Our business strategy
contemplates future acquisitions. The acquisitions we make may not prove to be
successful. We might encounter unanticipated difficulties and expenditures
relating to any acquired properties, including contingent liabilities. Further,
newly acquired properties might require significant management attention that
would otherwise be devoted to our ongoing business. We might never realize the
anticipated benefits of an acquisition, which could adversely affect our
profitability.

Since real estate
investments are illiquid, we may not be able to sell properties when we desire.

Real estate
investments generally cannot be sold quickly. We may not be able to vary our
portfolio promptly in response to changes in the real estate market. This
inability to respond to changes in the performance of our investments could
adversely affect our ability to service our debt. The real estate market is
affected by many factors that are beyond our control, including:

·

adverse
changes in national and local economic and market conditions;

·

changes
in interest rates and in the availability, costs and terms of financing;

·

changes
in governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning and other ordinances
and costs of compliance with laws and regulations;


·

the
ongoing need for capital improvements, particularly in older structures;

·

changes
in operating expenses; and

·

civil
unrest, acts of war and natural disasters, including earthquakes and floods,
which may result in uninsured and underinsured losses.

We cannot predict whether
we will be able to sell any property for the price or on the terms set by us,
or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be
acceptable to us. We also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a
willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property. In addition, there are
provisions under the federal income tax laws applicable to REITs that may limit
our ability to recognize the full economic benefit from a sale of our assets.
These factors and any others that would impede our ability to respond to
adverse changes in the performance of our properties could have a material
adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.

Transfers of
healthcare facilities generally require regulatory approvals, and alternative
uses of healthcare facilities are limited.

Because transfers of
healthcare facilities may be subject to regulatory approvals not required for
transfers of other types of commercial operations and other types of real
estate, there may be delays in transferring operations of our facilities to
successor operators or we may be prohibited from transferring operations to a
successor operator. In addition, substantially all of our properties are
healthcare facilities that may not be easily adapted to non-healthcare related
uses. If we are unable to transfer properties at times opportune to us, our
revenue and operations may suffer.

We may experience
uninsured or underinsured losses.

We generally require our
operators to secure and maintain comprehensive liability and property insurance
that covers us, as well as the operators, on most of our properties. Some types
of losses, however, either may be uninsurable or too expensive to insure
against. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur,
we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property,
as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property. In such an event,
we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial
obligations related to the property. We cannot assure you that material losses
in excess of insurance proceeds will not occur in the future.

Increases in
interest rates may increase our interest expense and adversely affect our cash
flow and our ability to service our indebtedness.

At December 31, 2005,
our total consolidated indebtedness was approximately $2.0 billion, of
which approximately $295 million, or 15%, is subject to variable interest
rates. This variable rate debt had a weighted average interest rate of
approximately 5.0% per annum. Increases in interest rates on this variable rate
debt would increase our interest expense, which could harm our cash flow and
our ability to service our indebtedness.

Loss of our tax
status as a REIT would have significant adverse consequences to us.

We currently operate and have operated commencing with
our taxable year ended December 31, 1985 in a manner that is intended to
allow us to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes under the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.

Qualification as a REIT involves the application of
highly technical and complex Internal Revenue Code provisions for which there
are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. The determination
of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control
may affect our ability to qualify as a REIT. For example, in order to qualify
as a REIT, at least 95% of our gross income


in any year must be
derived from qualifying sources, and we must satisfy a number of requirements
regarding the composition of our assets. Also, we must make distributions to
stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income,
excluding capital gains. In addition, new legislation, regulations,
administrative interpretations or court decisions may adversely affect our
investors or our ability to qualify as a REIT for tax purposes. Although we
believe that we have been organized and have operated in such manner, we can
give no assurance that we have qualified or will continue to qualify as a REIT
for tax purposes.

If we lose our REIT
status, we will face serious tax consequences that will substantially reduce
the funds available to make payments of principal and interest on the debt
securities we issue and to make distributions to our stockholders. If we fail
to qualify as a REIT:

·

we
would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing
our taxable income and would be subject to federal income tax at regular
corporate rates;

·

we
also could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly
increased state and local taxes; and

·

unless
we are entitled to relief under statutory provisions, we could not elect to be
subject to tax as a REIT for four taxable years following the year during which
we were disqualified.

In addition, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, all
distributions to stockholders would be subject to tax as regular corporate
dividends to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits and
we would not be required to make distributions to stockholders.

As a result of all these
factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT also could impair our ability to
expand our business and raise capital, and could adversely affect the value of
our common stock.

ITEM 1B.

Unresolved
Staff Comments

None

ITEM 2.

Properties

We are organized to
invest in income-producing healthcare related facilities. In evaluating
potential investments, we consider such factors as:

·

The
location, construction quality, condition and design of the property;

·

The
geographic area, proximity to other healthcare facilities, type of property and
demographic profile;

·

Whether
the rent provides a competitive market return to our investors;

·

The
duration, rental rates, tenant quality and other attributes of in-place leases;

·

The
current and anticipated cash flow and its adequacy to meet our operational
needs;

·

The
potential for capital appreciation;

·

The
expertise and reputation of the operator;

·

Occupancy
and demand for similar health facilities in the same or nearby communities;

·

An
adequate mix between private and government sponsored patients at health
facilities;

·

The
availability of qualified operators or property managers or whether we can
manage the property;


·

Potential
alternative uses of the facilities;

·

The
regulatory and reimbursement environment in which the properties operate;

·

The
tax laws related to real estate investment trusts;

·

Prospects
for liquidity through financing or refinancing; and

·

Our
cost of capital.

The following summarizes
our direct property investments and interests held through consolidated joint
ventures and mortgage loans as of and for the year ended December 31, 2005
(square feet and dollars in thousands).


(1)

Senior housing facilities are apartment-like facilities
and are therefore stated in units (studio, one or two bedroom apartments).
Medical office buildings and other healthcare facilities are measured in square
feet. Hospitals and skilled nursing facilities are measured by licensed bed
count.

(2)

Investment for owned properties represents the carrying
amount of real estate assets, including intangibles, after adding back
accumulated depreciation and amortization and excludes assets held for sale and
classified as discontinued operations. Investment for mortgage loans represents
the carrying amount of our investment.


(3)

Net Operating Income from Continuing Operations (“NOI”)
is a non-GAAP supplemental financial measure used to evaluate the operating
performance of real estate properties. We define NOI as rental revenues,
including tenant reimbursements, less property level operating expenses, which
exclude depreciation and amortization, general and administrative expenses,
impairment, interest expense and discontinued operations. We believe NOI
provides investors relevant and useful information because it measures the
operating performance of our real estate at the property level on an
unleveraged basis. We use NOI to make decisions about resource allocations and
assess property level performance. We believe that net income is the most
directly comparable GAAP measure to NOI. NOI should not be viewed as an
alternative measure of operating performance to net income as defined by GAAP
since it does not reflect the aforementioned excluded items. Further, NOI may
not be comparable to that of other real estate investment trusts, as they may
use different methodologies for calculating NOI.

The
following is summarized unaudited information for HCP MOP as of and for the
year ended December 31, 2005 (square feet and dollars in thousands):

(1)

Represents the carrying amount of real estate assets
within HPC MOP, including intangibles, after adding back accumulated
depreciation and amortization and excludes assets held for sale and classified
as discontinued operations.

(2)

Net Operating Income from Continuing
Operations (“NOI”) is a non-GAAP supplemental financial measure used to
evaluate the operating performance of real estate properties. We define NOI as
rental revenues, including tenant reimbursements, less property level operating
expenses, which exclude depreciation and amortization, general and
administrative expenses, impairments, interest expense and discontinued
operations. We believe NOI provides investors relevant and useful information
because it measures the operating performance of our real estate at the
property level on an unleveraged basis. We use NOI to make decisions about
resource allocations and assess property level performance. We believe that net
income is the most directly comparable GAAP measure to NOI. NOI should not be
viewed as an alternative measure of operating performance to net income as
defined by GAAP since it does not reflect the aforementioned excluded items. Further,
NOI may not be comparable to that of other real estate investment trusts, as
they may use different methodologies for calculating NOI.

ITEM 3.

Legal
Proceedings

On September 26, 2005, the Company filed a
lawsuit in Superior Court of California, County of San Diego entitled

Health Care Property Investors, Inc. v. Fenton
Partners, Fenton & Grust, LLC and SRG Holdco, LP.

The
Company held an option to acquire certain limited partnership units in SRG
Holdco, LP. The Company settled this lawsuit on November 11, 2005. The
settlement included a payment to the Company of $1.7 million.

During 2005 and at December 31,
2005, we were not a party to any other material legal proceedings.

ITEM 4.

Submission
of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

None.


PART II

ITEM 5.

Market
for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer
Purchases of Equity Securities

(a)

Our
common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. Set forth below for the
fiscal quarters indicated are the reported high and low closing prices of our
common stock on the New York Stock Exchange. On March 2, 2004, each
shareholder received one additional share of common stock for each share they
own resulting from a 2-for-1 stock split announced by the Company
on January 22, 2004. The stock split has been reflected in all periods
presented.

At January 31, 2006, there were approximately
5,595 stockholders of record and approximately 118,904 beneficial stockholders
of our common stock.

It has been our policy to
declare quarterly dividends to the common stock shareholders so as to comply
with applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code governing REITs. The
cash dividends per share paid on common stock are set forth below:




First Quarter

$

0.4200

$

0.4175

$

0.4150

Second Quarter

0.4200

0.4175

0.4150

Third Quarter

0.4200

0.4175

0.4150

Fourth Quarter

0.4200

0.4175

0.4150

HCPI/Indiana.

On
December 4, 1998, we completed the acquisition of a managing member
interest in HCPI/Indiana, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (“HCPI/Indiana”),
in exchange for a cash contribution of approximately $31.6 million. In
connection with this acquisition, three individuals affiliated with Bremmer &
Wiley, Inc. contributed a portfolio of seven medical office buildings to
HCPI/Indiana with an aggregate equity value (net of assumed debt) of
approximately $2.8 million. In exchange for this capital contribution, the
contributing individuals received 89,452 non-managing member units of
HCPI/Indiana.

The Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company
Agreement of HCPI/Indiana, LLC provides that only we are authorized to act on
behalf of HCPI/Indiana and that we have responsibility for the management of
its business.

Each non-managing member unit of HCPI/Indiana is
exchangeable for an amount of cash approximating the then-current market value
of two shares of our common stock or, at our option, two shares of our common
stock (subject to certain adjustments, such as stock splits and
reclassifications). HCPI/Indiana relied on the exemption provided by Section 4(2) of
the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, in connection with the issuance and
sale of the non-managing member units. We have registered 178,904 shares of our
common stock for issuance from time to time in exchange for units, and as of December 31,
2005, 75,364 of such shares have been issued in exchange for units.


HCPI/Utah.

On
January 25, 1999, we completed the acquisition of a managing member
interest in HCPI/Utah, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (“HCPI/Utah”),
in exchange for a cash contribution of approximately $18.9 million. In
connection with this acquisition, several entities affiliated with The Boyer
Company, L.C. (“Boyer”) contributed a portfolio of 14 medical office buildings
(including two ground leaseholds associated therewith) to HCPI/Utah with an
aggregate equity value (net of assumed debt) of approximately $18.9 million. In
exchange for this capital contribution, the contributing entities received
593,247 non-managing member units of HCPI/Utah. At the initial closing,
HCPI/Utah was also granted the right to acquire additional medical office
buildings. Four additional buildings have been contributed to HCPI/Utah and the
contributing entities received 133,134 non-managing member units of HCPI/Utah.
An additional 56,488 non-managing member units were received by the
contributing entities as a result of earnout agreements on certain of the
buildings.

The Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company
Agreement of HCPI/Utah provides that only we are authorized to act on behalf of
HCPI/Utah and that we have responsibility for the management of its business.

Each non-managing member unit of HCPI/Utah is
exchangeable for an amount of cash approximating the then-current market value
of two shares of our common stock or, at our option, two shares of our common
stock (subject to certain adjustments, such as stock splits and
reclassifications). HCPI/Utah relied on the exemption provided by Section 4(2) of
the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, in connection with the issuance and
sale of the non-managing member units. We have registered 1,565,738 shares of
our common stock for issuance from time to time in exchange for units, and as
of December 31, 2005, 454,044 of such shares have been issued in exchange
for units.

HCPI/Utah
II.

On August 17, 2001, we completed the
acquisition of a managing member interest in HCPI/Utah II, LLC, a Delaware
limited liability company (“HCPI/Utah II”), in exchange for a cash contribution
of approximately $32.8 million. In connection with the acquisition, several
entities affiliated with Boyer contributed a portfolio of four medical office
buildings, six healthcare laboratory and biotech research facilities (seven
buildings are owned through ground leasehold interests) and undeveloped land
with an aggregate equity value (net of assumed debt) of approximately $25.7
million to HCPI/Utah II. In exchange for this capital contribution, the
contributing entities received 738,923 non-managing member units of HCPI/Utah
II. At the initial closing, HCPI/Utah II was also granted the right to acquire
eight additional medical office buildings. Subsequent contributions have
resulted in the acquisition of six additional buildings. In connection with the
contribution of these six additional buildings, the contributing entities
received 184,169 non-managing member units subsequent to the initial closing.
An additional 93,276 non-managing member units were received by the
contributing entities as a result of earnout agreements on certain buildings.

The Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company
Agreement of HCPI/Utah II provides that only we are authorized to act on behalf
of HCPI/Utah II and that we have responsibility for the management of its
business.

Each non-managing member unit of HCPI/Utah II is
exchangeable for an amount of cash approximating the then-current market value
of two shares of our common stock or, at our option, two shares of our common
stock (subject to certain adjustments, such as stock splits and
reclassifications). HCPI/Utah II relied on the exemption provided by Section 4(2) of
the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, in connection with the issuance and
sale of the non-managing member units. We have registered 2,032,736 shares of
our common stock for issuance from time to time in exchange for units, and as
of December 31, 2005, 408,024 of such shares have been issued in exchange
for units.

HCPI/Tennessee.

On
October 2, 2003, we completed the acquisition of a managing member
interest in HCPI/Tennessee, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (“HCPI/Tennessee”),
in exchange for the contribution of property interests with an aggregate equity
value of approximately $7.0 million and


$169,000 in cash. In
connection with the formation of the LLC, MedCap Properties, LLC (“MedCap”)
contributed certain property interests to HCPI/Tennessee with an aggregate
equity value of approximately $48.2 million. In exchange for this capital
contribution, MedCap received 1,064,539 non-managing member units of
HCPI/Tennessee. MedCap distributed its non-managing member units in
HCPI/Tennessee to the owners of MedCap, including Charles A. Elcan, who is now
an Executive Vice President of HCP. On October 19, 2005, an unrelated
individual contributed, and others sold, interests in seven additional
properties to HCPI/Tennessee. In connection with the contribution, the
contributing party received 214,872 non-managing member units. HCP contributed
cash of $15.3 million to HCPI/Tennessee to fund the purchase of interests and
received 299,265 managing member units for the contribution.

The Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company
Agreement of HCPI/Tennessee provides that only we are authorized to act on
behalf of HCPI/Tennessee and that we have responsibility for the management of
its business.

Each non-managing member unit of HCPI/Tennessee is
exchangeable for an amount of cash approximating the then-current market value
of two shares of our common stock or, at our option, two shares of our common
stock (subject to certain adjustments, such as stock splits and
reclassifications). HCPI/Tennessee relied on the exemption provided by Section 4(2) of
the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, in connection with the issuance and
sale of the non-managing member units. We have registered 2,129,078 shares of
our common stock for issuance from time to time in exchange for units, and as
of December 31, 2005, 58,934 of such shares have been issued in exchange
for units.

HCP
DR California.

On July 22, 2005, we
completed the acquisition of a managing member interest in HCP DR California,
LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (“HCP DR California”), in exchange
for the contribution of $55.4 million in cash. In connection with the formation
of the LLC, several parties contributed a portfolio of certain property
interests in four assisted living facilities with an aggregate equity value
(net of assumed debt) of approximately $19.1 million. In exchange for this
capital contribution, the contributors received 699,454 non-managing member
units of HCP DR California.

The Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company
Agreement of HCP DR California provides that only we are authorized to act on
behalf of HCP DR California and that we have responsibility for the management
of its business.

Each
non-managing member unit of HCP DR California is exchangeable for an amount of
cash approximating the then-current market value of one share of our common
stock or, at our option, one share of our common stock (subject to certain
adjustments, such as stock splits and reclassifications). HCP DR
California relied on the exemption provided by Section 4(2) of the
Securities Act of 1933, as amended, in connection with the issuance and sale of
the non-managing member units. As of December 31, 2005, we have not
registered any shares of our common stock for issuance in exchange for
non-managing member units of HCP DR California.

(b)

None.


(c)

The
table below sets forth the information with respect to purchases of our common
stock made by or on our behalf during the quarter ended December 31, 2005.

Period Covered

Total Number Of

Shares

Purchased(1)

Average Price

Paid Per Share

Total Number Of Shares

(Or Units) Purchased As

Part Of Publicly

Announced Plans Or

Programs

Maximum Number (Or

Approximate Dollar Value)

Of Shares (Or Units) That

May Yet Be Purchased

Under The Plans Or

Programs

October 1-31,

—

—

—

—

November 1-30,

1,918

$

26.43

—

—

December 1-31,

—

—

—

—

Total

1,918

$

26.43

—

—

(1)

Represents
restricted shares withheld under our Amended and Restated 2000 Stock Incentive
Plan, as amended, to offset tax withholding obligations that occur upon vesting
of restricted shares. Our Amended and Restated 2000 Stock Incentive Plan, as
amended, provides that the value of the shares withheld shall be the closing
price of our common stock on the date the relevant transaction occurs.

ITEM 6.

Selected
Financial Data

Set
forth below is our selected financial data as of and for each of the years in
the five year period ended December 31, 2005.

(1)

Includes bank line of
credit, senior unsecured notes and mortgage debt.


ITEM 7.

Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Cautionary
Language Regarding Forward-Looking Statements

Statements in this
Annual Report that are not historical factual statements are “forward-looking
statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act
of 1995. The statements include, among other things, statements regarding the
intent, belief or expectations of Health Care Property Investors, Inc. and
its officers and can be identified by the use of terminology such as “may,” “will,”
“expect,” “believe,” “intend,” “plan,” “estimate,” “should” and other
comparable terms or the negative thereof. In addition, we, through our senior
management, from time to time make forward-looking oral and written public
statements concerning our expected future operations and other developments.
Readers are cautioned that, while forward-looking statements reflect our good
faith belief and best judgment based upon current information, they are not
guarantees of future performance and are subject to known and unknown risks and
uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from the expectations
contained in the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors. In
addition to the factors set forth under “Risk Factors” in this Annual Report,
readers should consider the following:

(a)

Legislative, regulatory,
or other changes in the healthcare industry at the local, state or federal
level which increase the costs of or otherwise affect the operations of, our
tenants and borrowers;

(b)

Changes in the
reimbursement available to our tenants and borrowers by governmental or private
payors, including changes in Medicare and Medicaid payment levels and the
availability and cost of third party insurance coverage;

(c)

Competition for tenants
and borrowers, including with respect to new leases and mortgages and the
renewal or rollover of existing leases;

(d)

Availability of suitable
healthcare facilities to acquire at favorable prices and the competition for
such acquisition and financing of healthcare facilities;

(e)

The ability of our
tenants and borrowers to operate our properties in a manner sufficient to
maintain or increase revenues and to generate sufficient income to make rent
and loan payments;

(f)

The financial weakness
of some operators, including potential bankruptcies, which results in
uncertainties regarding our ability to continue to realize the full benefit of
such operators’ leases;

(g)

Changes in national or
regional economic conditions, including changes in interest rates and the
availability and cost of capital;

(h)

The risk that we will not
be able to sell or lease facilities that are currently vacant;

(i)

The potential costs of
SB 1953 compliance with respect to our hospital in Tarzana, California;

(j)

The financial, legal
and regulatory difficulties of two significant operators, Tenet and
HealthSouth; and

(k)

The potential impact of
existing and future litigation matters.

We undertake no obligation
to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a
result of new information, future events or otherwise.

Executive Summary

We are a real estate investment trust (“REIT”) that
invests in healthcare related properties located throughout the United States.
We develop, acquire and manage healthcare real estate, and provide mortgage
financing to healthcare providers. We invest directly, often structuring
sale-leaseback


transactions, and through
joint ventures. At December 31, 2005, our real estate portfolio, including
assets held through joint ventures and mortgage loans, consisted of interests
in 527 facilities located in 42 states.

Our business strategy is based on three principles: (i) opportunistic
investing, (ii) portfolio diversification, and (iii) conservative
financing. We actively redeploy capital from investments with lower return
potential into assets with higher return potential, and recycle capital from
shorter term to longer term investments. We make investments where the expected
risk-adjusted return exceeds our cost of capital and strive to leverage our
operator and other business relationships.

Our strategy contemplates acquiring and developing
properties on favorable terms. We attempt to structure transactions that are
tax-advantaged and mitigate risks in our underwriting process. Generally, we
prefer larger, more complex private transactions that leverage our management
team’s experience and our infrastructure. During 2005, we made gross
investments of $647 million. These investments had an average first year yield
on cost of just over 7.67%. Our 2005 investments of were allocated among the
following healthcare sectors: (i) 62% senior housing facilities; (ii) 32%
MOBs; and (iii) 6% hospitals.

We follow a disciplined approach to enhancing the
value of our existing portfolio, including the ongoing evaluation of properties
for potential disposition that no longer fit our strategy. We sold interests in
20 properties during 2005 for $71 million and had seven properties with a
carrying amount of $5 million classified as held for sale at year end.

We primarily generate revenue by leasing healthcare
related properties under long-term operating leases. Most of our rents are
received under triple-net leases; however, Medical Office Building (“MOB”)
rents are typically structured as gross or modified gross leases. Accordingly,
for MOBs we incur certain property operating expenses, such as real estate
taxes, repairs and maintenance, property management fees, utilities and
insurance. Our growth depends, in part, on our ability to (i) increase
rental income by increasing occupancy levels and rental rates, (ii) maximize
tenant recoveries given underlying lease structures, and (iii) control
operating and other expenses. Our operations are impacted by property specific,
market specific, general economic and other conditions.

Access to external capital on favorable terms is
critical to the success of our strategy. We attempt to match the long-term
duration of our leases with long-term fixed rate financing. At December 31,
2005, 15% of our consolidated debt is at variable interest rates. We intend to
maintain an investment grade rating on our fixed income securities and manage
various capital ratios and amounts within appropriate parameters. As of December 31,
2005, our senior debt is rated BBB+ by both Standard & Poor’s and
Fitch Ratings and Baa2 by Moody’s Investors Service.

Capital market access
impacts our cost of capital and our ability to refinance existing indebtedness
as it matures, as well as to fund future acquisitions and development through
the issuance of additional securities. Our ability to access capital on
favorable terms is dependent on various factors, including general market
conditions, interest rates, credit ratings on our securities, perception of our
potential future earnings and cash distributions, and the market price of our
capital stock.

2005 Overview

Real Estate
Transactions

During 2005, the
Company acquired interests in properties and made secured loans aggregating $647
million with an average yield of 7.7%. Our 2005 investments were made in the
following healthcare sectors: (i) 62% senior housing facilities; (ii) 32%
medical office buildings; and (iii) 6% hospitals. 2005 investments
included the following:

·

On
April 20, 2005, we acquired five assisted living facilities for $58
million through a sale-leaseback transaction. These facilities have an initial
lease term of 15 years, with two ten-year renewal options.


The initial annual lease
rate is 9.0% with annual escalators based on the Consumer Price Index (“CPI”)
that have a floor of 2.75%. These properties are included in a master lease
that has 21 properties leased to the operator.

·

On
April 28, 2005, we acquired five medical office buildings for $81 million,
including assumed debt valued at $29 million. The initial yield is 7.0%, with
two properties currently in lease-up. The yield following lease-up is expected
to be 8.2%. The medical office buildings include approximately 537,000 rentable
square feet.

·

On
July 1, 2005, we acquired an assisted living facility for $16 million
through a sale-leaseback transaction. The facility has an initial lease term of
15 years, with two ten-year renewal options. The initial annual lease rate is
8.75% with annual CPI-based escalators that have a floor of 2.75%.

·

On
July 22, 2005, we acquired twelve independent and assisted living facilities
for approximately $252 million, including assumed debt and non-managing member
LLC units (“DownREIT units”) valued at $52 million and $19 million,
respectively, through a sale-leaseback transaction. These facilities have an
initial lease term of 15 years, with three ten-year renewal options. The
initial annual lease rate is 7.1% with annual CPI-based escalators that have a
floor of 3%.

·

On
August 31, 2005, we acquired five assisted living facilities for $41
million through a sale-leaseback transaction. These facilities have an initial
lease term of 15 years, with two ten-year renewal options. The initial annual
lease rate is 8.5% with annual CPI-based escalators that have a floor of 2.75%.
These properties are included in a master lease that has 21 properties leased
to the operator.

·

On
October 19, 2005, we acquired seven medical office buildings for $51
million, including assumed debt and DownREIT units valued at $24 million and
$11 million, respectively. The medical office buildings include approximately
351,000 rentable square feet and have an initial yield of 8.2%.

·

On
December 22, 2005, we acquired two independent and assisted living
facilities for $18 million through a sale-leaseback transaction. The facilities
have an initial lease term of 15 years, with two ten-year renewal options. The
initial annual lease rate is 8.5% with annual CPI-based escalators that have a
floor of 2.75%. These properties are included in a master lease that has 21
properties leased to the operator.

·

On
December 23, 2005, we acquired two medical office buildings for $25
million. The medical office buildings include approximately 152,000 rentable
square feet and have an initial yield of 7.4%.

·

On
December 28, 2005, we closed a $40 million loan secured by a hospital in
Texas. The note bears interest at 8.75% per annum. Subject to certain
performance conditions, we may fund an additional $10 million under the
existing loan agreement.

·

During 2005, we sold interests in 20 properties for $71 million
and recognized gains of $10 million.

Capital Markets
Transactions

·

On
April 27, 2005, we issued $250 million of 5.625% senior unsecured notes
due 2017. The notes were priced at 99.585% of the principal amount with an
effective yield of 5.673%. We received proceeds of $247 million, which were
used to repay outstanding indebtedness and for general corporate purposes.

·

On September 16, 2005,
we issued $200 million of 4.875% senior unsecured notes due 2010. The notes
were priced at 99.567% of the principal amount with an effective yield of
4.974%. We received net proceeds of $198 million, which were used to repay
outstanding indebtedness and for general corporate purposes.


·

During the
year ended December 31, 2005, we issued approximately 878,000 shares of our
common stock under our Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan at an
average price per share of $25.80 for proceeds of $23 million.

Other Events

·

Quarterly
dividends paid during 2005 aggregated to $1.68 per share. On February 6, 2006,
we announced that our Board of Directors declared a quarterly common stock cash
dividend of $0.425 per share. The common stock dividend will be paid on
February 23, 2006, to stockholders of record as of the close of business on
February 13, 2006. This dividend equals $1.70 per share on an annualized basis.
Our Board of Directors has determined to continue its policy of considering
dividend increases on an annual rather than quarterly basis.

Critical Accounting Policies

The preparation of
financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles (“GAAP”), requires management to use judgment in the application of
accounting policies, including making estimates and assumptions. Our judgments
are based on our experience, interpretation of the facts and circumstances, and
on various other estimates and assumptions believed to be reasonable under the
circumstances. These judgments affect the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of
the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses
during the reporting periods. If our judgment or interpretation of the facts
and circumstances relating to various transactions or other matters had been
different, it is possible that different accounting would have been applied
resulting in a different presentation of our financial statements. From time to
time, we re-evaluate our estimates and assumptions. In the event estimates or
assumptions prove to be different from actual results, adjustments are made in
subsequent periods to reflect more current estimates and assumptions about
matters that are inherently uncertain.

Use of Estimates

Management is required to
make estimates and assumptions in the preparation of financial statements in
conformity with GAAP. These estimates and assumptions affect the reported
amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of
revenue and expenses during the reporting periods. Actual results could differ.

Principles of
Consolidation

Our consolidated financial statements include the
accounts of HCP, its wholly owned subsidiaries and its controlled, through
voting rights or other means, joint ventures. All material intercompany
transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.

We have adopted Interpretation No. 46R,

Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities

, as revised (“FIN
46R”), effective January 1, 2004 for variable interest entities created
before February 1, 2003 and effective in fiscal year 2003 for variable
interest entities created after January 31, 2003. FIN 46R provides
guidance on the identification of entities for which control is achieved
through means other than voting rights (“variable interest entities” or “VIEs”)
and the determination of which business enterprise is the primary beneficiary
of the VIE. A variable interest entity is broadly defined as an entity where
either (i) the equity investors as a group, if any, do not have a controlling
financial interest or (ii) the equity investment at risk is insufficient
to finance that entity’s activities without additional financial support. We
consolidate investments in VIEs when it is determined that we are the primary
beneficiary of the VIE at either the creation of the variable interest entity
or upon the occurrence of a reconsideration event. The adoption of


FIN 46R resulted in the
consolidation of five joint ventures with aggregate assets of $18.5 million,
effective January 1, 2004, that were previously accounted for under the
equity method. The consolidation of these joint ventures did not have a
significant effect on our consolidated financial statements or results of
operations.

We adopted Emerging Issues Task Force Issue (“EITF”) 04-5,

Investor’s Accounting for an Investment in a
Limited Partnership When the Investor is the Sole General Partner and the
Limited Partners Have Certain Rights

(“EITF 04-5”), effective June 2005.
The issue concludes as to what rights held by the limited partner(s) preclude
consolidation in circumstances in which the sole general partner would
otherwise consolidate the limited partnership in accordance with GAAP. The
assessment of limited partners’ rights and their impact on the presumption of
control of the limited partnership by the sole general partner should be made
when an investor becomes the sole general partner and should be reassessed if (i) there
is a change to the terms or in the exercisability of the rights of the limited
partners, (ii) the sole general partner increases or decreases its
ownership of limited partnership interests, or (iii) there is an increase
or decrease in the number of outstanding limited partnership interests. This
EITF also applies to managing members in limited liability companies. The
adoption of EITF 04-5 did not have an impact on our consolidated
financial position or results of operations.

Investments in entities
which we do not consolidate but for which we have the ability to exercise
significant influence over operating and financial policies are reported under
the equity method. Generally, under the equity method of accounting, our share
of the investee’s earnings or loss is included in our operating results.

Revenue Recognition

Rental income from tenants is recognized in accordance
with GAAP, including Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) Staff
Accounting Bulletin No. 104,

Revenue
Recognition

(“SAB 104”). For leases with minimum scheduled rent
increases, we recognize income on a straight-line basis over the lease term
when collectibility is reasonably assured. Recognizing rental income on a
straight-line basis for leases results in recognized revenue exceeding amounts
contractually due from tenants. Such cumulative excess amounts are included in
other assets and were $18.4 million and $11.0 million, net of allowances, at December 31,
2005 and 2004, respectively. In the event we determine that collectibility of
straight-line rents is not reasonably assured, we limit future recognition to
amounts contractually owed, and, where appropriate, we establish an allowance
for estimated losses. Certain leases provide for additional rents based upon a
percentage of the facility’s revenue in excess of specified base periods or
other thresholds. Such revenue is deferred until the related thresholds are
achieved.

We monitor the liquidity
and creditworthiness of our tenants and borrowers on an ongoing basis. This
evaluation considers industry and economic conditions, property performance,
security deposits and guarantees, and other matters. We establish provisions
and maintain an allowance for estimated losses resulting from the possible inability
of its tenants and borrowers to make payments sufficient to recover recognized
assets. For straight-line rent amounts, our assessment is based on income
recoverable over the term of the lease. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, we
had an allowance of $21.6 million and $15.8 million, respectively, included in
other assets, as a result of our determination that collectibility is not
reasonably assured for certain straight-line rent amounts.

Real Estate

Real estate, consisting of
land, buildings, and improvements, is recorded at cost. We allocate the cost of
the acquisition to the acquired tangible and identified intangible assets and
liabilities, primarily lease related intangibles, based on their estimated fair
values in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 141,

Business Combinations

.


We assess fair value based
on estimated cash flow projections that utilize appropriate discount and/or
capitalization rates, third party appraisals, and available market information.
Estimates of future cash flows are based on a number of factors including
historical operating results, known and anticipated trends, and market and
economic conditions. The fair value of the tangible assets of an acquired
property considers the value of the property as if it were vacant.

We record acquired “above
and below” market leases at their fair value, using a discount rate which
reflects the risks associated with the leases acquired, equal to the difference
between (i) the contractual amounts to be paid pursuant to each in-place
lease and (ii) management’s estimate of fair market lease rates for each
corresponding in-place lease, measured over a period equal to the remaining
term of the lease for above-market leases and the initial term plus the term of
any below-market fixed-rate renewal options for below-market leases. Other
intangible assets acquired include amounts for in-place lease values that are
based on our evaluation of the specific characteristics of each tenant’s lease.
Factors to be considered include estimates of carrying costs during
hypothetical expected lease-up periods, market conditions, and costs to execute
similar leases. In estimating carrying costs, we include real estate taxes,
insurance and other operating expenses and estimates of lost rentals at market
rates during the expected lease-up periods, depending on local market
conditions. In estimating costs to execute similar leases, we consider leasing
commissions, legal and other related costs.

Real estate assets are
periodically reviewed for potential impairment by comparing the carrying amount
to the expected undiscounted future cash flows to be generated from the assets.
If the sum of the expected future net undiscounted cash flows is less than the
carrying amount of the property, we will recognize an impairment loss by
adjusting the asset’s carrying amount to its estimated fair value. Fair value
for properties to be held and used is based on the present value of the future
cash flows expected to be generated from the asset. Properties held for sale
are recorded at the lower of carrying amount or fair value less costs to
dispose. Our ability to accurately predict future cash flows impacts the
determination of fair value, which may significantly impact our reported
results of operations.

Results of Operations

Comparison of the
year ended December 31, 2005 to the year ended December 31, 2004

Rental and other revenue.

MOB rental revenue increased 35% to
$126.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. The increase in MOB
rental revenue of $33.2 million primarily relates to the additive effect of our
acquisitions in 2005 and 2004, which contributed $26.7 million to rental
revenues year over year.

Triple-net
lease rental revenues increased 13% to $325.3 million for the year ended
December 31, 2005. The increase in triple-net lease rental revenue of
$37.7 million primarily relates to the additive effect of our acquisitions in
2005 and 2004, as detailed below:


We also recognized $5.7 million of rental income
during the fourth quarter of 2004 resulting from a change in estimate related
to the collectibility of straight-line rental income from ARC. Additionally,
included in triple-net lease rental revenues are facility level operating
revenues for five senior housing properties that were previously leased on a
net basis. Periodically tenants default on their leases, which cause us to take
temporary possession of the operations of the facility. We contract with third
party managers to manage these properties until a replacement tenant can be
identified or the property can be sold. The operating revenues and expenses for
these properties are included in triple-net lease rental revenues and operating
expenses, respectively. The increase in reported revenues for these facilities
of $3.6 million to $7.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2005,
was primarily due to us taking possession of two of these properties in 2005
and increases in overall occupancy of such properties.

Equity
income (loss).

Equity
income decreased to a loss of $1.1 million primarily due to our investment in
HCP MOP, for which we recorded equity losses of $1.4 million and equity income
of $1.5 million for 2005 and 2004, respectively. During the years ended December 31,
2005 and 2004, HCP MOP revised its purchase price allocation and attributed
more of the purchase price of the properties acquired from MedCap Properties,
LLC to below-market lease intangibles and other intangibles from real estate
assets. Lease intangibles generally amortize over a shorter period of time
relative to tangible real estate assets. The decrease in the equity income from
our investment in HCP MOP was primarily due to the revisions to the purchase
price allocations referred to above. Additionally, HCP MOP incurred repairs and
other related expenses for damages caused by hurricanes Katrina and Rita of
$1.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2005. See Note 7 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on HCP MOP.

Interest
and other income.

Interest
and other income decreased 27% to $26.2 million for the year ended December 31,
2005. The change reflects a reduced level of loans receivable following an $83
million repayment from ARC and a $17 million repayment from Emeritus during the
third quarter of 2004. The decrease in interest and other income was partially
offset by gains from the sale of various investments of $4.5 million in 2005.
The gains from these investments were primarily the result of the sale of
securities in 2005, which were acquired in conjunction with real estate and or
leasing transactions we completed in previous years. During the year ended December 31,
2005 and 2004, we also recognized management and other fees from HCP MOP of
$3.1 million in each period.


Interest expense.

Interest expense increased 22% to
$107.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. The increase was due
to the issuance of $450 million of senior notes payable in April and September of
2005, and the assumption of $113.5 million of mortgage notes payable in
connection with the acquisitions of real estate properties, which resulted in
increased borrowing levels, and an overall increase in short-term variable
rates. The table below sets forth information with respect to our debt as of December 31,
2005 and 2004:

Depreciation and
amortization.

Real estate depreciation and
amortization increased 26% to $106.9 million for the year ended December 31,
2005. The increase in depreciation and amortization of $21.8 million primarily
relates to the additive effect of our acquisitions in 2005 and 2004, as
detailed below:

Operating expenses.

Operating costs increased 39% to
$59.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. Operating costs are
predominantly related to MOB properties that are leased under gross or modified
gross lease agreements where we share certain costs with tenants. Additionally,
we contract with third party property managers for most of our MOB properties. Accordingly,
the number of properties in our MOB portfolio directly impacts operating costs.
The increase in operating expenses of $16.5 million primarily relates to the
effect of our acquisitions in 2005 and 2004, as detailed below:


Additionally, included in operating expenses are
facility level operating expenses for five senior housing properties that were
previously leased on a net basis. Periodically tenants default on their leases
which cause us to take temporary possession of the operations of the facility. We
contract with third party managers to manage these properties until a
replacement tenant can be identified or the property can be sold. The revenues
and expenses for these properties are included in triple-net lease rental
revenues and operating expenses, respectively. The increase in reported
operating expenses for these facilities of $3.6 million to $8.7 million
for the year ended December 31, 2005, was primarily due to us taking
possession of two of these properties in 2005 and an increase in the overall
occupancy of such properties.

The presentation of expenses between general and
administrative and operating expenses is based on the underlying nature of the
expense. Periodically, we review the classification of expenses between
categories and make revisions based on changes in the underlying nature of the
expense.

General
and administrative expenses.

General and
administrative expenses decreased 13% to $32.1 million for the year ended December 31,
2005. The decrease was due to higher costs in 2004 primarily resulting from
$1.5 million of income tax expense on income from certain assets held in a
taxable REIT subsidiary, the implementation of a new information system,
considerable resources that were expended towards initial compliance with
certain regulatory requirements, principally Section 404 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, $0.7 million in expenses associated with the relocation
of our corporate offices to Long Beach, California in 2004 and a charge of $1.6
million related to the settlement of a lawsuit filed against us by our former
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Offsetting the decrease
from 2004 was an increase in compensation related expenses due to an increase
in full-time employees from 74 at December 31, 2004, to 83 at December 31,
2005.

Discontinued operations.

Income from discontinued operations for the year
ended December 31, 2005 was $13.9 million compared to $14.9 million for
the comparable period in the prior year. The change is due to a decline in the
carrying value of assets disposed from $151 million in 2004 to $54 million in
2005, and resulted in a decrease in the year over year gains on sale of real
estate of $10.9 million and a related decline of operating income of $5.8
million associated with discontinued operations. The changes in net gain on
sale and operating income were predominantly offset by a year over year
reduction of impairment charges of $15.8 million.

Comparison of the year ended December 31, 2004 to
the year ended December 31, 2003

Rental
and other revenue.

MOB rental revenue increased
22% to $93.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The increase in
MOB rental revenue of $17.2 million primarily relates to the additive effect of
our acquisitions in 2004 and 2003, which contributed $14.7 million to rental
revenues year over year.

Triple-net
lease rental revenues increased 19% to $287.6 million for the year ended December 31,
2004. The increase in triple-net lease rental revenue of $46.1 million
primarily relates to the additive effect of our acquisitions in 2004 and 2003,
as detailed below:

We also recognized $5.7 million of rental income
during the fourth quarter of 2004 resulting from a change in estimate related
to the collectibility of straight-line rental income from ARC. The
consolidation


of five joint ventures
upon the adoption of FIN 46R, effective January 2004, increased reported
triple-net lease rental income by approximately $2.8 million.

Equity
income (loss).

Equity
income decreased 25% to $2.2 million primarily due to our acquisition of four
retirement living facilities in September 2003 which were accounted for
under the equity method. This was offset by higher HCP MOP interest expense
following HCP MOP obtaining $288 million of non-recourse mortgage debt in
early 2004. During 2004 and 2003, we recognized $1.5 million and $1.7 million
of equity income from HCP MOP, respectively. At December 31, 2004, 100
properties were held by unconsolidated joint ventures, including HCP MOP,
compared to 115 properties at December 31, 2003.

Interest
and other income.

Interest
and other income decreased 25% to $36.1 million for the year ended December 31,
2004. The change reflects the net effects of (i) $4.6 million of revenue
from the recognition of ARC interest income upon the repayment by ARC during
2004 of $83 million of debt and accrued interest thereon, and (ii) a
reduced level of loans receivable following the aforementioned repayment from
ARC and a $17 million repayment from Emeritus. During 2004 and 2003, we also
recognized management and other fees from HCP MOP of $3.1 million and $2.5
million, respectively. Other income in 2003 includes a $3.4 million tax related
accrual reversal related to our 1999 acquisition of American Health Properties.

Interest expense.

Interest expense decreased 1% to
$87.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The change was due to
a decrease in overall interest rates, offset by minor increases in borrowing
levels. The table below sets forth information with respect to our debt as of December 31,
2004 and 2003:

Depreciation and
amortization.

Real
estate depreciation and amortization increased 19% to $85.1 million for
the year ended December 31, 2004. The increase in depreciation and
amortization of $13.5 million primarily relates to our acquisitions in 2004 and
2003, as detailed below:


Operating expenses.

Operating costs increased 24% to
$42.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. Operating costs are
predominantly related to MOB properties that are leased under gross or modified
gross lease agreements where we share certain costs with tenants. Additionally,
we contract with third party property managers for most of our MOB properties. Accordingly,
the number of properties in our MOB portfolio directly impacts operating costs.
The increase in operating expenses of $8.2 million primarily relates to the
effect of our acquisitions in 2004 and 2003, as detailed below:

The presentation of expenses between general and
administrative and operating expenses is based on the underlying nature of the
expense. Periodically, we review the classification of expenses between
categories and make revisions based on changes in the underlying nature of the
expense.

General
and administrative expenses.

General and
administrative expenses increased 63% to $36.7 million for the year ended December 31,
2004. The increase was due to higher costs in 2004 primarily resulting from
income tax expense of $1.5 million on income from certain assets held in a
taxable REIT subsidiary and the implementation of a new information system and
considerable resources that were expended towards initial compliance with
certain regulatory requirements, principally Section 404 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Also contributing to the increase was $0.7 million
in expenses associated with the move of our corporate offices to Long Beach,
California and a charge of $1.6 million related to the settlement of a lawsuit
filed against us by our former Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer.

Discontinued operations.

Income
from discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2004, was
$14.9 million compared to $18.3 million for the comparable period in the prior
year. The change is primarily due to an increase in impairment charges of $3.9
million year over year. The year over year increase in gains on sale of $8.9
million was predominantly offset by comparable period decrease in operating
income of $8.5 million.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Our principal liquidity needs are to (i) fund
normal operating expenses, (ii) meet debt service requirements, (iii) fund
capital expenditures including tenant improvements and leasing costs, (iv) fund
acquisition and development activities, and (v) make minimum distributions
required to maintain our REIT qualification under the Internal Revenue Code, as
amended.

We believe these needs will be satisfied using cash
flows generated by operations and provided by financing activities. We intend
to repay maturing debt with proceeds from future debt and/or equity offerings
and anticipate making future investments dependent on the availability of
cost-effective sources of capital. We use the public debt and equity markets as
our principal source of financing. As of December 31, 2005, our senior
debt is rated BBB+ by both Standard & Poor’s Ratings Group and Fitch
Ratings and Baa2 by Moody’s Investors Service.

Net cash provided by operating activities was $282.1
million and $272.5 million for 2005 and 2004, respectively. Cash flow from operations
reflects increased revenues offset by higher costs and expenses, and changes in
receivables, payables, accruals, and deferred revenue. Our cash flows from
operations are dependent upon the occupancy level of multi-tenant buildings,
rental rates on leases, our tenants’ performance on their lease obligations,
the level of operating expenses, and other factors.


Net cash used in investing activities was $414.8
million during 2005 and principally reflects the net effect of: (i) $64.6
million received from the sale of several facilities, (ii) $447.2 million
principally used to fund acquisitions and construction of real estate, (iii) $53.3
million used to fund investments in loans receivable and (iv) $19.1
million in principal repayments received on loans. During 2005 and 2004, we
used $7.1 million and $3.4 million to fund lease commissions and tenant and
capital improvements, respectively.

Net cash provided by financing activities was $137.1
million for 2005 and includes proceeds of $45.2 million from common stock
issuances, and $445.5 million from senior note issuances. These proceeds were
partially offset by: (i) the repayment of $31.0 million of senior notes, (ii) net
repayment of $41.5 million of our line of credit, (iii) payment of
common and preferred dividends aggregating $248.4 million, and (iv) repayments
on mortgage debt of $17.9 million. In order to qualify as a REIT for federal
income tax purposes, we must distribute at least 90% of our taxable income to
our shareholders. Accordingly, we intend to continue to make regular quarterly
distributions to holders of our common and preferred stock.

At December 31, 2005,
we held approximately $11.9 million in deposits and $44.2 million in
irrevocable letters of credit from commercial banks securing tenants’ lease
obligations and borrowers’ loan obligations. We may draw upon the letters of
credit or depository accounts if there are defaults under the related leases or
loans. Amounts available under letters of credit could change based upon
facility operating conditions and other factors and such changes may be
material.

Bank Line of
Credit, Mortgage Debt and Senior Unsecured Notes

At December 31, 2005, we had the following
outstanding debt:

Bank
line of credit.

Borrowings
under our $500 million three-year bank line of credit were $258.6 million
with an interest rate of 5.01% at December 31, 2005. Borrowings under the
bank line of credit accrue interest at 65 basis points over the London Inter
Bank Offering Rate (“LIBOR”) with a 15 basis point facility fee. In addition, a
negotiated rate option, whereby the lenders participating in the credit
facility bid on the interest to be charged and which may result in a reduced
interest rate, is available for up to 50% of borrowings. The credit facility
also contains an “accordion” feature allowing borrowings to be increased by
$100 million in certain conditions.

The credit agreement contains certain financial
restrictions and requirements customary in transactions of this type. The more
significant covenants, using terms defined in the agreement, limit the ratios
of (i) Consolidated Total Indebtedness to Consolidated Total Asset Value
to 60%, (ii) Secured Debt to Consolidated Total Asset Value to 30% and (iii) Unsecured
Debt to Consolidated Unencumbered Asset Value to 60%. We must also maintain (i) a
Fixed Charge Coverage ratio, as defined, of 1.75 times and (ii) a
formula-determined Minimum Tangible Net Worth. As of December 31, 2005, we
were in compliance with each of these restrictions and requirements.

Mortgage
debt.

At
December 31, 2005, we had $236.1 million in mortgage debt secured by 38 healthcare
facilities with a carrying amount of $384.5 million. Interest rates on the
mortgage notes ranged from 2.75% to 9.32% with a weighted average rate of 7.05%
at December 31, 2005.

The instruments encumbering the properties restrict
title transfer of the respective properties subject to the terms of the
mortgage, prohibit additional liens, require payment of real estate taxes, maintenance
of the properties in good condition and maintenance of insurance on the
properties and include a requirement to obtain lender consent to enter into
material tenant leases.

Senior
unsecured notes.

At
December 31, 2005 we had $1.5 billion in aggregate principal amount of
senior unsecured notes outstanding. Interest rates on the notes ranged from
4.875% to 7.875% with a weighted average rate of 6.23% at December 31,
2005.


On April 27, 2005, we issued $250 million of
5.625% senior unsecured notes due in 2017. The notes were priced at 99.585% of
the principal amount with an effective yield of 5.673%. We received proceeds of
$247 million, which were used to repay outstanding indebtedness and for general
corporate purposes.

Senior unsecured notes at December 31, 2004,
included $200 million principal amount of Mandatory Par Put Remarketed
Securities (“MOPPRS”), due June 8, 2015. The MOPPRS contained an option
(the “MOPPRS Option”) exercisable by the Remarketing Dealer, an investment bank
affiliate, which derived its value from the yield on ten-year U.S. Treasury
rates relative to a fixed strike rate of 5.565%. Generally, the value of the
option to the Remarketing Dealer increased as ten-year Treasury rates declined
and the option’s value to the Remarketing Dealer decreased as ten-year Treasury
rates increased.

On June 3, 2005, the Remarketing Dealer exercised
its option to redeem our $200 million principal amount of 6.875% MOPPRS. The
Remarketing Dealer redeemed the securities from the holders at par plus accrued
interest, and reissued ten-year senior notes with a coupon of 7.072%. The
reissued notes are at an effective interest rate which is higher than what
would otherwise have been available if we had issued new ten-year notes at par
value.

On September 16, 2005, we issued $200 million of
4.875% senior unsecured notes due in 2010. The notes were priced at 99.567% of
the principal amount with an effective yield of 4.974%. We received net
proceeds of $198 million, which were used to repay outstanding indebtedness and
for other general corporate purposes.

During the year ended December 31,
2005, we repaid $31 million of maturing senior unsecured notes which accrued
interest at a rate of 7.5%. These notes were repaid with funds available under
our bank line of credit.

Debt Maturities

The
following table summarizes our stated debt maturities and scheduled principal
repayments at December 31, 2005 (in thousands):

Equity

At December 31, 2005, we had outstanding
4,000,000 shares of 7.25% Series E cumulative redeemable preferred stock,
7,820,000 shares of 7.10% Series F cumulative redeemable preferred stock,
and 136 million shares of common stock.

During the year ended December 31, 2005, we
issued approximately 878,000 shares of our common stock under our Dividend
Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan at an average price per share of $25.80
for proceeds of $22.6 million. We also received $22.9 million in proceeds from
stock option exercises. At December 31, 2005, stockholders’ equity totaled
$1.4 billion and our equity securities had a market value of $3.9 billion.

As of December 31, 2005, there were a total of
3.4 million DownREIT units outstanding in five limited liability companies in
which we are the managing member (i) HCPI/Tennessee, LLC;


(ii) HCPI/Utah, LLC; (iii) HCPI/Utah
II, LLC; (iv) HCPI/Indiana, LLC; and (v) HCP DR California, LLC. The
DownREIT units are exchangeable for an amount of cash approximating the
then-current market value of shares of our common stock or, at our option,
shares of our common stock (subject to certain adjustments, such as stock
splits and reclassifications). The 3.4 million DownREIT units outstanding
at December 31, 2005, are convertible into 6.0 million shares of our
common stock.

As of December 31,
2005, we had $1.06 billion available for future issuances of debt and equity securities
under a shelf registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission. These securities may be issued from time to time in the future
based on our needs and the then-existing market conditions

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

We own interests in certain unconsolidated joint
ventures, including HCP MOP, as described under Note 7 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements. Except in limited circumstances, our risk of loss is
limited to our investment carrying amount and any outstanding loans receivable.

We have no other material
off balance sheet arrangements that we expect to materially affect our
liquidity and capital resources except these described under “Contractual
Obligations.”

Contractual Obligations

The
following table summarizes our material contractual payment obligations and
commitments at December 31, 2005 (in thousands):

Inflation

Our leases often provide
for either fixed increases in base rents or indexed escalators, based on the
Consumer Price Index or other measures, and/or additional rent based on
increases in the tenant’s revenue from the facility. Substantially all of our
MOB leases require the tenant to pay a share of property operating costs such
as real estate taxes, insurance, utilities, etc. We believe that inflationary
increases in expenses will be offset, in part, by the tenant expense
reimbursements and contractual rent increases described above.

New Accounting Pronouncements

See Note 2 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for the impact of new accounting standards.

ITEM 7A.

Quantitative
and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

At December 31, 2005, we are exposed to market
risks related to fluctuations in interest rates on $57.3 million of variable
rate mortgage notes payable, $258.6 million of variable rate bank debt and $25.0
million of variable rate senior unsecured notes. Of the $57.3 million of
variable rate mortgage notes payable


outstanding, $45.6 million
has been hedged through interest rate swap contracts. We do not have any, and
do not plan to enter into, derivative financial instruments for trading or
speculative purposes. Of our consolidated debt of $2.0 billion at December 31,
2005, excluding the $45.6 million of variable rate debt where the rates have
been hedged to fixed rates, approximately 15% is at variable interest rates.

Fluctuation in the interest rate environment will not
affect our future earnings and cash flows on our fixed rate debt until that
debt must be replaced or refinanced. However, interest rate changes will affect
the fair value of our fixed rate instruments and our hedge contracts.
Conversely, changes in interest rates on variable rate debt would change our
future earnings and cash flows, but not affect the fair value of those
instruments. Assuming a one percentage point increase in the interest rate
related to the variable-rate debt and related swap contracts, and assuming no
change in the outstanding balance as of December 31, 2005, interest
expense for 2005 would increase by approximately $3 million, or $0.02 per
common share on a diluted basis.

The
principal amount and the average interest rates for our mortgage loans
receivable and debt categorized by maturity dates is presented in the table
below. The fair value estimates for the mortgage loans receivable are based on
the estimates of management and on rates currently prevailing for comparable
loans. The fair market value estimates for debt securities are based on discounting
future cash flows utilizing current rates offered to us for debt of the same
type and remaining maturity.

ITEM 8.

Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data

See Index to Consolidated
Financial Statements.


ITEM 9.

Changes
in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosures

None

ITEM 9A.

Controls
and Procedures

Disclosure
Controls and Procedures.

We maintain disclosure
controls and procedures that are designed to ensure that information required
to be disclosed in our reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is
recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified
in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms and that such
information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, to allow for timely
decisions regarding required disclosure. In designing and evaluating the
disclosure controls and procedures, management recognizes that any controls and
procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only
reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives, and
management is required to apply its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit
relationship of possible controls and procedures.

Also, we have investments in certain unconsolidated
entities. Our disclosure controls and procedures with respect to such entities
are substantially more limited than those we maintain with respect to our
consolidated subsidiaries.

As required by Rule 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, we carried out an evaluation, under the
supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief
Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, and Chief Accounting Officer, of
the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and
procedures as of December 31, 2005. Based on the foregoing, our Chief
Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer
concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the
reasonable assurance level.

Changes
in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.

There
were no changes in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting (as
such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under
the Exchange Act) during the fourth quarter of 2005 to which this report
relates that have materially affected, or are reasonable likely to materially
affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.

Management’s
Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting.

Management
is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
financial reporting, as such term is defined in Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Rule 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f). Under the supervision and
with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive
Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer, we conducted an
evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial
reporting based on the framework in

Internal
Control—Integrated Framework

issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on our evaluation under the
framework in

Internal Control—Integrated
Framework

, our management concluded that our internal control over
financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2005.

Our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, has been
attested to by Ernst & Young LLP, an independent registered public
accounting firm, as stated in their report which is included herein.


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING
FIRM

The Board of Directors and
Stockholders of Health Care Property Investors, Inc.

We have audited management’s
assessment, included in the accompanying Management’s Annual Report on Internal
Control over Financial Reporting, that Health Care Property Investors, Inc.
maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2005, based on criteria established in

Internal
Control—Integrated Framework

issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Health Care
Property Investors, Inc.’s management is responsible for maintaining
effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of
the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on management’s assessment and an
opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over
financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included
obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting,
evaluating management’s assessment, testing and evaluating the design and
operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other
procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our
audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company’s internal
control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial
reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the
maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors
of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention
or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent
limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to
future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate
because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the
policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, management’s
assessment that Health Care Property Investors, Inc. maintained effective
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, is
fairly stated, in all material respects, based on the COSO criteria. Also, in
our opinion, Health Care Property Investors, Inc. maintained, in all
material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2005, based on the COSO criteria.

We also
have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Health Care
Property Investors, Inc. as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the
related consolidated statements of income, stockholders’ equity and cash flows
for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005 and the
related schedule, and our report dated February 10, 2006 expressed an
unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Irvine,
  California

February 10,


PART III

ITEM 10.

Directors
and Executive Officers of the Registrant

Our
executive officers were as follows on February 10, 2006:

We hereby incorporate by reference the information
appearing under the captions “Board of Directors and Executive Officers,” “Code
of Business Conduct,” “Board of Directors and Executive Officers—Committees of
the Board” and “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance” in the Registrant’s definitive proxy statement relating to its
Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May 11, 2006.

The Company has filed, as exhibits to this Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, the
certifications of its Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer
required pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2004.

On June 10, 2005, the
Company submitted to the New York Stock Exchange the Annual CEO Certification
required pursuant to Section 303A.12(a) of the New York Stock
Exchange Listed Company Manual.

ITEM 11.

Executive
Compensation

We hereby incorporate by
reference the information under the captions “Executive Compensation” and “Table
of Equity Compensation Plan Information” in the Registrant’s definitive proxy
statement relating to its Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May 11,
2006.

ITEM 12.

Security
Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters

We hereby incorporate by
reference the information under the captions “Principal Stockholders” and “Board
of Directors and Executive Officers” in the Registrant’s definitive proxy
statement relating to its Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May 11,
2006.

ITEM 13.

Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions

We hereby incorporate by
reference the information under the captions “Certain Transactions” and “Compensation
Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation” in the Registrant’s definitive
proxy statement relating to its Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May 11,
2006.


ITEM 14.

Principal
Accountant Fees and Services

We hereby incorporate by
reference under the caption “Audit and Non-Audit Fees” in the Registrant’s
definitive proxy statement relating to its Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be
held on May 11, 2006.

ITEM 15.

Exhibits,
Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedules








*

Management
Contract or Compensatory Plan or Arrangement.

For the purposes of complying with the amendments to
the rules governing Form S-8 (effective July 13, 1990)
under the Securities Act of 1933, the undersigned registrant hereby undertakes
as follows, which undertaking shall be incorporated by reference into
registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-8 Nos. 33-28483
and 333-90353 filed May 11, 1989 and November 5, 1999,
respectively, Form S-8 Nos. 333-54786 and 333-54784
each filed February 1, 2001, and Form S-8 No. 333-108838
filed September 16, 2003.

Insofar as indemnification for liabilities arising
under the Securities Act of 1933 may be permitted to directors, officers and
controlling persons of the registrant pursuant to the foregoing provisions, or
otherwise, the registrant has been advised that in the opinion of the
Securities and Exchange Commission such indemnification is against public
policy as expressed in the Securities Act of 1933 and is therefore,
unenforceable. In the event that a claim for indemnification against such
liabilities (other than the payment by the registrant of expenses incurred or
paid by a director, officer or controlling person of the registrant in the
successful defense of any action, suit or proceeding) is asserted by such
director, officer or controlling person in connection with the securities being
registered, the registrant will, unless in the opinion of its counsel the
matter has been settled by controlling precedent, submit to a court of
appropriate jurisdiction the question whether such indemnification by it is
against public policy expressed in the Securities Act of 1933 and will be
governed by the final adjudication of such issue.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report
to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Dated: February 13, 2006

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has
been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in
the capacities and on the dates indicated.



INDEX
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Schedule II has been intentionally omitted as the
required information is presented in the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.

F-


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING
FIRM

The Board of Directors and Stockholders of Health Care
Property Investors, Inc.

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance
sheets of Health Care Property Investors, Inc. as of December 31, 2005
and 2004, and the related consolidated statements of income, stockholders’
equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
2005. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the
Index at Item 15(a). These financial statements and schedule are the
responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards
of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements
referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated
financial position of Health Care Property Investors, Inc. at December 31,
2005 and 2004, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005,
in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our
opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation
to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all
material respects the information set forth therein.

We
have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness of Health Care
Property Investors, Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2005, based on criteria established in

Internal Control—Integrated Framework

issued by the Committee of the Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission and our report dated February 10, 2006 expressed an unqualified
opinion thereon.

/s/ ERNST &
  YOUNG LLP

Irvine, California

February 10, 2006

F-


HEALTH CARE
PROPERTY INVESTORS, INC.

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE
SHEETS

(In
thousands, except per share data)

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

F-


HEALTH
CARE PROPERTY INVESTORS, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

(In thousands, except per share data)

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

F-


HEALTH CARE PROPERTY INVESTORS, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

(In thousands)

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

F-


HEALTH CARE PROPERTY INVESTORS, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(In thousands)

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

F-


HEALTH CARE PROPERTY INVESTORS, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(1)   Business

Health Care Property
Investors, Inc. is a real estate investment trust (“REIT”) that, together
with its consolidated entities (collectively, “HCP” or the “Company”), invests
directly, or through joint ventures and mortgage loans, in healthcare related
properties located throughout the United States.

(2)

Summary
of Significant Accounting Policies

Use of Estimates

Management is required to
make estimates and assumptions in the preparation of financial statements in
conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). These
estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities
and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the
financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during
the reporting period. Actual results could differ.

Principles of
Consolidation

The consolidated financial statements include the
accounts of HCP, its wholly owned subsidiaries and its controlled, through
voting rights or other means, joint ventures. All material intercompany
transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.

The Company adopted Interpretation No. 46R,

Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities

,
as revised (“FIN 46R”), effective January 1, 2004 for variable interest
entities created before February 1, 2003 and effective January 1,
2003 for variable interest entities created after January 31, 2003. FIN
46R provides guidance on the identification of entities for which control is
achieved through means other than voting rights (“variable interest entities”
or “VIEs”) and the determination of which business enterprise is the primary
beneficiary of the VIE. A variable interest entity is broadly defined as an
entity where either (i) the equity investors as a group, if any, do not
have a controlling financial interest or (ii) the equity investment at
risk is insufficient to finance that entity’s activities without additional
financial support. The Company consolidates investments in VIEs when it is
determined that the Company is the primary beneficiary of the VIE at either the
creation of the variable interest entity or upon the occurrence of a
reconsideration event. The adoption of FIN 46R resulted in the consolidation of
five joint ventures with aggregate assets of $18.5 million, effective January 1,
2004, that were previously accounted for under the equity method. The
consolidation of these joint ventures did not have a significant effect on the
Company’s consolidated financial statements or results of operations.

The Company adopted Emerging Issues Task Force (“EITF”)
Issue 04-5,

Investor’s Accounting for an Investment in a
Limited Partnership When the Investor is the Sole General Partner and the
Limited Partners Have Certain Rights

(“EITF 04-5”), effective June 2005.
The issue concludes as to what rights held by the limited partner(s) preclude
consolidation in circumstances in which the sole general partner would
otherwise consolidate the limited partnership in accordance with GAAP. The
assessment of limited partners’ rights and their impact on the presumption of
control of the limited partnership by the sole general partner should be made
when an investor becomes the sole general partner and should be reassessed if (i) there
is a change to the terms or in the exercisability of the rights of the limited
partners, (ii) the sole general partner increases or decreases its
ownership of limited partnership interests, or (iii) there is an increase
or decrease in the number of outstanding limited partnership interests. This
EITF also applies to managing members in limited liability companies. The
adoption of EITF 04-5 did not have an impact on the Company’s
consolidated financial position or results of operations.

F-


HEALTH CARE PROPERTY INVESTORS, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

Investments in entities
which the Company does not consolidate but for which the Company has the
ability to exercise significant influence over operating and financial policies
are reported under the equity method. Generally, under the equity method of
accounting the Company’s share of the investee’s earnings or loss is included
in the Company’s operating results.

Revenue Recognition

Rental income from tenants is recognized in accordance
with GAAP, including Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) Staff
Accounting Bulletin No. 104,

Revenue
Recognition

(“SAB 104”). For leases with minimum scheduled rent
increases, the Company recognizes income on a straight-line basis over the
lease term when collectibility is reasonably assured. Recognizing rental income
on a straight-line basis for leases results in recognized revenue exceeding
amounts contractually due from tenants. Such cumulative excess amounts are
included in other assets and were $18.4 million and $11.0 million, net of
allowances, at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. In the event the
Company determines that collectibility of straight-line rents is not reasonably
assured, the Company limits future recognition to amounts contractually owed,
and, where appropriate, the Company establishes an allowance for estimated
losses. Certain leases provide for additional rents based upon a percentage of
the facility’s revenue in excess of specified base periods or other thresholds.
Such revenue is deferred until the related thresholds are achieved.

The Company monitors the
liquidity and creditworthiness of its tenants and borrowers on an ongoing
basis. The evaluation considers industry and economic conditions, property performance,
security deposits and guarantees, and other matters. The Company establishes
provisions and maintains an allowance for estimated losses resulting from the
possible inability of its tenants and borrowers to make payments sufficient to
recover recognized assets. For straight-line rent amounts, the Company’s
assessment is based on income recoverable over the term of the lease. At December 31,
2005 and 2004, respectively, the Company had an allowance of $21.6 million and
$15.8 million, included in other assets, as a result of the Company’s
determination that collectibility is not reasonably assured for certain
straight-line rent amounts. Results for the fourth quarter of 2004 include
income of $5.7 million resulting from the Company’s change in estimate relating
to the collectibility of straight-line rents due from affiliates of American
Retirement Corporation.

Loans Receivable

Loans receivable are
classified as held-to-maturity because the Company has the positive intent and
ability to hold the securities to maturity. Held-to-maturity securities are
stated at amortized cost. The Company recognizes interest income on loans,
including the amortization of discounts and premiums, using the effective
interest method.

Real Estate

Real estate, consisting of land, buildings, and
improvements, is recorded at cost. The Company allocates acquisition costs to
the acquired tangible and identified intangible assets and liabilities,
primarily lease intangibles, based on their estimated fair values in accordance
with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 141,

Business Combinations

.

The Company assesses fair value based on estimated
cash flow projections that utilize appropriate discount and/or capitalization
rates, third party appraisals and available market information. Estimates of

F-


HEALTH CARE PROPERTY INVESTORS, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

future cash flows are
based on a number of factors including historical operating results, known and
anticipated trends, and market and economic conditions. The fair value of the
tangible assets of an acquired property considers the value of the property as
if it were vacant.

The Company records acquired “above and below” market
leases at their fair value using a discount rate which reflects the risks
associated with the leases acquired, equal to the difference between (i) the
contractual amounts to be paid pursuant to each in-place lease and (ii) management’s
estimate of fair market lease rates for each corresponding in-place lease,
measured over a period equal to the remaining term of the lease for
above-market leases and the initial term plus the term for any below-market
fixed rate renewal options for below-market leases. Other intangible assets
acquired include amounts for in-place lease values that are based on the
Company’s evaluation of the specific characteristics of each tenant’s lease.
Factors to be considered include estimates of carrying costs during
hypothetical expected lease-up periods, market conditions, and costs to execute
similar leases. In estimating carrying costs, the Company includes real estate
taxes, insurance and other operating expenses and estimates of lost rentals at
market rates during the expected lease-up periods, depending on local market
conditions. In estimating costs to execute similar leases, the Company
considers leasing commissions, legal and other related costs.

Real estate assets and related intangibles are
periodically reviewed for potential impairment by comparing the carrying amount
to the expected undiscounted future cash flows to be generated from the assets.
If the sum of the expected future net undiscounted cash flows is less than the
carrying amount of the property, the Company will recognize an impairment loss
by adjusting the asset’s carrying amount to its estimated fair value. Fair
value for properties to be held and used is based on the present value of the
future cash flows expected to be generated from the asset. Properties held for
sale are recorded at the lower of carrying amount or fair value less costs to
dispose.

Developments in process are carried at cost which
includes pre-construction costs essential to development of the property,
construction costs, capitalized interest, and other costs directly related to
the property. Capitalization of interest ceases when the property is ready for
service which generally is near the date that a certificate of occupancy is
obtained. Expenditures for tenant improvements and leasing commissions are
capitalized and amortized over the terms of the respective leases. Repairs and
maintenance are expensed as incurred.

The Company computes depreciation
on properties using the straight-line method over the assets’ estimated useful
lives. Depreciation is discontinued when a property is identified as held for
sale. Building and improvements are depreciated over useful lives ranging up to
45 years. Above and below market rent intangibles are amortized primarily to
revenue over the remaining noncancellable lease terms and bargain renewal
periods. Other in-place lease intangibles are amortized to expense over the
remaining lease term and bargain renewal periods. At December 31, 2005 and
2004, lease intangibles assets were $38.8 million and $19.7 million,
respectively. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, lease intangible liabilities
were $5.3 million and $0.8 million and are included in deferred revenue.

Income Taxes

The Company has elected and believes it operates so as
to qualify as a REIT under Sections 856 to 860 of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). Under the Code, the Company generally is
not subject to federal income tax on its taxable income distributed to
stockholders if certain distribution, income, asset, and shareholder tests are
met. A REIT must distribute at least 90% of its

F-


HEALTH CARE PROPERTY INVESTORS, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

annual taxable income to
stockholders. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the tax basis of the Company’s
net assets is less than the reported amounts by $298 million and $288 million,
respectively.

Certain activities the
Company undertakes must be conducted by entities which elect to be treated as
taxable REIT subsidiaries (“TRSs”). TRSs are subject to both federal and state
income taxes. For the year ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, income taxes
related to the Company’s TRSs approximated a benefit of $0.7 million and an
expense of $1.5 million, respectively, and is included in general and
administrative expenses. The Company’s income tax expense in 2003 was
insignificant.

Discontinued
Operations

Certain long lived assets are classified as
discontinued operations in accordance with SFAS No. 144

, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of
Long-Lived Assets

. Long-lived assets to be disposed of are reported
at the lower of their carrying amount or their fair value less cost to sell.
Further, depreciation of these assets ceases at the time the assets are
classified as discontinued operations. Discontinued operations are defined in
SFAS No. 144 as a component of an entity that has either been disposed of
or is deemed to be held for sale if both the operations and cash flows of the
component have been or will be eliminated from ongoing operations as a result
of the disposal transaction and the entity will not have any significant
continuing involvement in the operations of the component after the disposal
transaction.

The Company periodically
sells assets based on market conditions and the exercise of purchase options by
tenants. The operating results of properties meeting the criteria established
in SFAS No. 144 are reported as discontinued operations in the Company’s
consolidated statements of income. Discontinued operations in 2005 include 25
properties with revenues of $5.3 million. The Company had 57 and 82 properties
classified as discontinued operations for the years ended December 31,
2004 and 2003, with revenue of $16.4 million and $38.2 million, respectively.
During 2005, 2004, and 2003, 18, 32 and 25 properties were sold, respectively,
with net gains on real estate dispositions of $10.2 million, $21.1 million and
$12.1 million, respectively. While SFAS No. 144 provides that the assets
and liabilities of discontinued operations be presented separately in the
balance sheet, such amounts are immaterial for the Company. Accordingly, such
reclassification has not been made. At December 31, 2005, the carrying
amount of assets held for sale was $5.1 million and is included in real estate.

Stock-Based
Compensation

On January 1, 2002, the Company adopted the fair
value method of accounting for stock-based compensation in accordance with SFAS
No. 123,

Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation

(“SFAS 123”), as amended by SFAS No. 148

, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation—Transaction
and Disclosure

(“SFAS 148”). The fair value provisions of SFAS 123
were adopted prospectively with the fair value of all new stock option grants
recognized as compensation expense beginning January 1, 2002. Since only
new grants are accounted for under the fair value method, stock-based
compensation expense is less than that which would have been recognized if the
fair value method had been applied to all awards. Compensation expense for
awards with graded vesting is generally recognized ratably over the vesting
period.

F-


HEALTH CARE PROPERTY INVESTORS, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

The
following table reflects net income and earnings per share, adjusted as if the
fair value based method had been applied to all outstanding stock awards in
each period (in thousands, except per share amounts):

Cash and Cash
Equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents
represent short term investments with original maturities of three months or
less when purchased.

Restricted Cash

Restricted cash primarily
consist of amounts held by mortgage lenders to provide for future real estate
tax expenditures and tenant improvements, security deposits, and net proceeds
from property sales that were executed as a tax-deferred disposition.

Derivatives

The Company adopted SFAS No. 133,

Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,

as amended by SFAS No. 137, SFAS No. 138 and SFAS No. 148 (“SFAS
No. 133”), as of January 1, 2001. SFAS No. 133 establishes
accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, including
certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, and hedging
activities. It requires the recognition of all derivative instruments as assets
or liabilities in the Company’s condensed consolidated balance sheets at fair
value. Changes in the fair value of derivative instruments that are not
designated as hedges or that do not meet the hedge accounting criteria of SFAS No. 133
are recognized in earnings. For derivatives designated as hedging instruments
in qualifying cash flow hedges, the effective portion of changes in fair value
of the derivatives is recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income
(loss) whereas the ineffective portions are recognized in earnings.

The Company formally
documents all relationships between hedging instruments and hedged items, as
well as its risk-management objectives and strategy for undertaking various
hedge transactions. This process includes linking all derivatives that are
designated as cash flow hedges to specific assets and liabilities in the
balance sheet. The Company also assesses and documents, both at the hedging
instrument’s inception and on an ongoing basis, whether the derivatives that
are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in
cash flows associated with the hedged items. When

F-


HEALTH CARE PROPERTY INVESTORS, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

it is
determined that a derivative ceases to be highly effective as a hedge, the
Company discontinues hedge accounting prospectively.

Marketable
Securities

The Company classifies its existing marketable equity
securities as available-for-sale in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 115,

Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and
Equity Investment,

(“SFAS No. 115”). These securities are
carried at fair market value, with unrealized gains and losses reported in
stockholders’ equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income.
Gains or losses on securities sold are based on the specific identification
method. During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company realized
gains totaling $4.5 million, related to the sale of various securities. There
were no gains or losses realized for the years ended December 31, 2004 and
2003.

All debt securities are
classified as held-to-maturity because the Company has the positive intent and
ability to hold the securities to maturity. Held-to-maturity securities are
stated at amortized cost, adjusted for amortization of premiums and accretion
of discounts to maturity.

Segment Reporting

The Company reports its
consolidated financial statements in accordance with SFAS No. 131,

Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information

(“SFAS No. 131”). The Company’s segments are based on the Company’s method
of internal reporting which classifies its operations by leasing activities. The
Company’s segments include: medical office buildings (“MOBs”) and triple-net
leased.

Stock Split

As of March 2, 2004,
each stockholder received one additional share of common stock for each share
they own resulting from a 2-for-1 stock split declared by the
Company on January 22, 2004. The stock split has been reflected in all
periods presented.

Minority Interests
and Mandatorily Redeemable Financial Instruments

As of December 31, 2005, there were 3.4 million
non-managing member units outstanding in five limited liability companies of
which the Company is the managing member: HCPI/Tennessee, LLC; HCPI/Utah, LLC;
HCPI/Utah II, LLC; HCPI Indiana, LLC; and HCP DR California, LLC. The Company
consolidates these entities since it exercises control. The non-managing member
LLC Units (“DownREIT units”) are exchangeable for an amount of cash
approximating the then-current market value of shares of the Company’s common
stock or, at the Company’s option, shares of the Company’s common stock
(subject to certain adjustments, such as stock splits and reclassifications).

SFAS No. 150,

Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with
Characteristics of both Liabilities and Equity

(“SFAS No. 150”)

,

requires, among other things,
that mandatorily redeemable financial instruments be classified as a liability
and recorded at settlement value. Consolidated joint ventures with a
limited-life are considered mandatorily redeemable. Implementation of the
provisions of SFAS No. 150 that require the valuation and establishment of
a liability for limited-life entities was subsequently deferred. As of December 31,
2005, the Company has eleven limited-life entities that have a settlement value
of the minority interests of approximately $4.9 million, which is approximately
$3.0 million more than the carrying amount.

F-


HEALTH CARE PROPERTY INVESTORS, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

Preferred Stock Redemptions

The Company recognizes the
excess of the redemption value of cumulative redeemable preferred stock
redeemed over its carrying amount as a charge to income in accordance with
Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”)—EITF Topic D-42,

The Effect on the Calculation of Earnings per Share
for the Redemption or Induced Conversion of Preferred Stock

(“EITF Topic D-42”). In July 2003,
the SEC staff issued a clarification of the SEC’s position on the application
of FASB EITF Topic D-42. The SEC staff’s position, as clarified, is that
in applying Topic D-42, the carrying value of preferred shares that are
redeemed should be reduced by the amount of original issuance costs, regardless
of where in stockholders’ equity those costs are reflected. (See Note 12.)

New Accounting Pronouncements

SFAS No. 123R,

Share-Based Payments

(“SFAS No. 123R”), which is a
revision of SFAS No. 123,

Accounting
for Stock-Based Compensation,

was issued in December 2004.
Generally, the approach in SFAS No. 123R is similar to that in SFAS No. 123.
However, SFAS No. 123R requires all share-based payments to employees,
including grants of employee stock options, be recognized in the income
statement based on their fair values. Pro forma disclosure is no longer an
alternative. SFAS 123R must be adopted no later than January 1, 2006 for
the Company. The Company believes the adoption of SFAS 123R will not have a
significant impact on its consolidated financial statements since it previously
adopted the fair value method prospectively under SFAS No. 123 on January 1,
2002.

In May 2005, the FASB
issued SFAS No. 154,

Accounting Changes
and Error Corrections

(“SFAS No. 154”), which replaces
Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 20,

Accounting Changes

and SFAS No. 3,

Reporting Accounting Changes in Interim Financial
Statements

. SFAS No. 154 changes the requirements for the
accounting for and reporting of a change in accounting principles. It requires
retrospective application to prior periods’ financial statements of changes in
accounting principles, unless it is impracticable to determine either the
period-specific effects or the cumulative effect of the change. This statement
is effective for accounting changes and corrections of errors made in fiscal
years beginning after December 15, 2005. The adoption of SFAS No. 154
is not expected to have a significant impact on the Company’s financial
position or results of operations.

Reclassifications

Certain reclassifications
have been made for comparative financial statement presentation.

(3)   Future Minimum Rents

Future minimum lease
payments to be received, excluding operating expense reimbursements, from
tenants under non-cancelable operating leases as of December 31, 2005, are
as follows (in thousands):

F-


HEALTH CARE PROPERTY INVESTORS, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

(4)   Acquisitions and Dispositions

A
summary of 2005 acquisitions is as follows (in thousands):

Consideration

Assets Acquired

Acquisition(1)

Cash

Assumed

Debt

DownREIT

Units(2)

Real

Estate

Net

Intangibles

Senior housing
  facilities

$

313,744

$

52,060

$

19,431

$

379,745

$

5,490

Medical office
  buildings

96,863

61,424

10,967

154,182

15,072

$

410,607

$

113,484

$

30,398

$

533,927

$

20,562

A
summary of 2004 acquisitions is as follows (in thousands):

(1)

Includes transaction
costs, if any.

(2)

Non-managing member LLC
units.

During the year ended December 31, 2005, the
Company acquired properties aggregating $554 million, including the
following significant acquisitions:

On December 23, 2005, the Company acquired two
medical office buildings for $25 million. The medical office buildings include
152,000 rentable square feet and have an initial yield of 7.4%. As of December 31,
2005, the purchase price allocation is preliminary and is pending information
necessary to complete the valuation of certain intangibles.

On December 22, 2005, the Company acquired two
independent and assisted living facilities for $18 million through a
sale-leaseback transaction. The facilities have an initial lease term of 15
years, with two ten-year renewal options. The initial annual lease
rate is 8.5% with annual escalators based on the Consumer Price Index (“CPI”)
that have a floor of 2.75%. These properties are included in a master lease that
has 21 properties leased to the operator.

On October 19, 2005, the Company acquired seven
medical office buildings for $51 million, including assumed debt and DownREIT
units valued at $24 million and $11 million, respectively. The medical office
buildings include approximately 351,000 rentable square feet and have an
initial yield of 8.2%.

On August 31, 2005, the Company acquired five
assisted living facilities for $41 million through a sale-leaseback
transaction. These facilities have an initial lease term of 15 years, with two
ten-year renewal options. The initial annual lease rate is 8.5% with annual
CPI-based escalators that have a floor of 2.75%. These properties are included
in a master lease that has 21 properties leased to the operator.

On July 22, 2005, the Company acquired twelve
independent and assisted living facilities for approximately $252 million,
including assumed debt and DownREIT units valued at $52 million and

F-


HEALTH CARE PROPERTY INVESTORS, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

$19 million,
respectively, through a sale-leaseback transaction. These facilities have an
initial lease term of 15 years, with three ten-year renewal options. The
initial annual lease rate is 7.1% with annual CPI-based escalators that have a
floor of 3%.

On July 1, 2005, the Company acquired an assisted
living facility for $16 million through a sale-leaseback transaction. The
facility has an initial lease term of 15 years, with two ten-year renewal
options. The initial annual lease rate is 8.75% with annual CPI-based
escalators that have a floor of 2.75%.

On April 28, 2005, the Company acquired five
medical office buildings for $81 million, including assumed debt valued at $29
million. The initial yield is 7.0%, with two properties currently in lease-up.
The yield following lease-up is expected to be 8.2%. The medical office buildings
include approximately 537,000 rentable square feet.

On April 20, 2005, the Company acquired five
assisted living facilities for $58 million through a sale-leaseback
transaction. These facilities have an initial lease term of 15 years, with two
ten-year renewal options. The initial annual lease rate is 9.0% with annual
CPI-based escalators that have a floor of 2.75%. These properties are included
in a master lease that has 21 properties leased to the operator.

During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company
sold 18 properties for $65 million and recognized net gains of $10 million.

See Note 20 for a
discussion of acquisitions subsequent to December 31, 2005.

(5)   Intangibles

At December 31, 2005 and 2004, intangible lease
assets, comprised of lease-up and below market ground lease intangibles, were
$38.8 million and $19.7 million, respectively, and are included in intangibles,
net in the consolidated balance sheets. The weighted average amortization
period of intangibles assets is approximately 12 years.

At December 31, 2005 and 2004, below market lease
intangibles, net were $5.3 million and $0.8 million, respectively, and are
included in deferred revenue in the consolidated balance sheets. Rental income
and operating expense for the year ended December 31, 2005, includes $2.0
million of income and $0.1 million of expense, respectively, of above and below
market lease intangibles amortization. There was no amortization of below
market lease intangibles in 2004 and 2003. The weighted average amortization
period of below market lease intangibles is approximately six years.

Estimated
aggregate amortization of intangible assets and liabilities for each of the
five succeeding fiscal years and thereafter is as follows (in thousands):

F-


HEALTH CARE PROPERTY INVESTORS, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

(6)   Operator
Concentration

Tenet Healthcare
Corporation (NYSE: THC) and American Retirement Corporation (NYSE: ARC)
accounted for 11% and 9%, respectively, of the Company’s revenue in 2005 and
accounted for 13% and 12%, respectively, of the Company’s revenue in 2004. The
carrying amount of the Company’s real estate assets leased to Tenet and ARC was
$343.1 million and $370.7 million, respectively, at December 31, 2005.

These companies are
publicly traded and are subject to the informational filing requirements of the
Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Accordingly, each is required
to file periodic reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q with
the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Certain operators of the
Company’s properties are experiencing financial, legal and regulatory
difficulties. The loss of a significant operator or a combination of smaller
operators could have a material impact on the Company’s financial position or
results of operations.

(7)   Investments
in and Advances to Joint Ventures

HCP Medical Office Portfolio, LLC

HCP Medical Office
Portfolio, LLC (“HCP MOP”) is a joint venture formed in June 2003 between
the Company and an affiliate of General Electric Company (“GE”). HCP MOP is
engaged in the acquisition, development and operation of MOB properties. The
Company has a 33% ownership interest therein and is the managing member.
Activities of the joint venture requiring equity capital are generally funded
on a transactional basis by the members in proportion to their ownership
interest. Cash distributions are made to the members in proportion to their
ownership interest until GE’s cumulative return, as defined, exceeds specified
thresholds. Thereafter, the Company will be entitled to an additional promoted
interest.

The Company uses the equity
method of accounting for its investment in HCP MOP because it exercises
significant influence through voting rights and its position as managing
member. However, the Company does not consolidate HCP MOP since it does not
control, through voting rights or other means, the joint venture as GE has
substantive participating decision making rights and has the majority of the
economic interest. The accounting policies of the HCP MOP are the same as those
described in the summary of significant accounting policies (see Note 2).

Summarized unaudited
condensed consolidated financial information of HCP MOP follows:

F-


HEALTH CARE PROPERTY INVESTORS, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

HCP MOP acquired 100 properties from MedCap in October 2003
for cash of $464 million and the assumption of $26 million of mortgage debt
that accrues interest at 7%. In connection therewith, the Company contributed
$143 million to HCP MOP. In January 2004, HCP MOP completed $288 million
of non-recourse mortgage financings, including $254 million at a weighted
average fixed interest rate of 5.57% with the balance based on LIBOR plus
1.75%. The Company received $92 million of distributions from HCP MOP in
connection with this financing during early 2004.

The Company has not guaranteed any indebtedness or
other obligations of HCP MOP. Generally, the Company may only be required to
provide additional funding to HCP MOP under limited circumstances as specified
in the related agreements. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, investments and
advances to unconsolidated joint ventures includes outstanding advances to HCP
MOP of $3.7 million and $6.4 million, respectively.

During the year ended December 31, 2005, HCP MOP
revised its purchase price allocation related to its 2003 acquisition of
certain properties acquired from MedCap Properties, LLC. The revisions made by
HCP MOP to the purchase price allocation attributed more value to below-market
lease intangibles and other intangibles from real estate assets. Lease
intangibles generally amortize over a shorter period of time relative to
tangible real estate assets. The impact to net income for HCP MOP, for the year
ended December 31, 2005, resulting from the purchase price allocation
revisions was a charge of $1.4 million.

In late August and early September 2005, ten
medical office buildings owned by HCP MOP, principally in Louisiana and the
surrounding area, sustained varying degrees of damage due to hurricanes Katrina
and Rita. Due to the nature and extent of the overall damage to the area, the
Company has not been able to finalize damage assessments. Preliminary estimates
indicate that four of the buildings have incurred substantial damage, and may
be a total loss. For the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, the four
buildings generated revenues of $0.9 million and $1.4 million, respectively. As
of December 31, 2005, the $3.8 million carrying value of these four
buildings was written off and an equal amount was recorded as a receivable for
the expected insurance proceeds up to the carrying value of each building.

At December 31, 2005, the remaining six buildings
had resumed operations with repairs underway. Revenues for the six facilities
undergoing repair were $5.8 million and $5.9 million for the years ended December 31,
2005, and 2004, respectively.

Repair costs and other related expenses for damages
caused by hurricanes Katrina and Rita during the year ended December 31,
2005, were approximately $1.4 million. The Company has property, business
interruption and other related insurance coverage to mitigate the financial
impact of these types of events; such coverage is subject to various limits and
deductible provisions based on the terms of the policies. Any excess insurance
recovery above the carrying value of the assets is expected to be recognized by
HCP MOP as a gain at the time the claims settle with the insurance carrier.

F-


HEALTH CARE PROPERTY INVESTORS, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

In January and February 2006,
HCP MOP sold 21 MOBs with 787,000 of rentable square feet for $50 million,
net of estimated transaction costs, and recognized aggregate gains of $8
million. In connection with the sale, approximately $39 million of HCP MOP’s
mortgage debt was either repaid or assumed by the purchaser.

Other
Unconsolidated Joint Ventures

The
Company owns minority interests in the following entities which are accounted
for on the equity method at December 31, 2005 (dollars in thousands):

Entity

Investment(1)

Ownership(2)

Arborwood Living
  Center, LLC

$



%

Edgewood Assisted
  Living Center, LLC

(378

)


%

Greenleaf Living
  Centers, LLC



%

Seminole Shores
  Living Center, LLC

(628

)


%

$


(1)

Represents the Company’s
investment in the identified unconsolidated joint venture. See Note 2 regarding
the Company’s policy for accounting for joint venture interests.

(2)

The Company’s ownership
interest and economic interests are substantially the same.

On June 30, 2005, the Company sold its minority
interests in two joint ventures with American Retirement Corporation (“ARC”)
for $6.2 million in exchange for a note collateralized by certain partnership
interests of ARC. The note bears interest at 9% per annum and matures June 2010.
The gain on sale of $2.4 million was deferred and will be recognized under the
installment method of accounting as the principal balance of the note is repaid.
These joint ventures were accounted for by the Company under the equity method
prior to June 30, 2005.

Summarized
unaudited condensed combined financial information for the other unconsolidated
joint ventures follows:

(1)

Includes
financial information related to two joint ventures with ARC that were sold on June 30,
2005.

F-


HEALTH CARE PROPERTY INVESTORS, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

As of December 31,
2005, the Company has guaranteed approximately $7.2 million of a total of $15.4 million
of notes payable for four of these joint ventures.

(8)   Loans
Receivable

During 2004, ARC repaid its secured loans and interest
thereon, and the Company recognized $4.6 million of additional interest
income. The interest income recognized resulted from the reversal of a
previously established allowance of $4.6 million that was based on, among other
things, the Company’s analysis of the loan to asset value underlying the
investment.

In the fourth quarter of 2004, the Company recorded a
charge of $1.6 million to increase its loan loss allowance as a result of a
borrower who defaulted upon maturity of two notes and a credit assessment of
another borrower.

On December 28, 2005, the Company closed a $40
million loan secured by a hospital in Texas. The note bears interest at 8.75%
per annum. Subject to certain performance conditions, the Company may fund an
additional $10 million under the existing loan agreement.

On February 9, 2006, the Company refinanced two
existing loans secured by a hospital in Texas. The loans were combined into a
new single loan that bears interest at 8.5% per annum and matures 2016. The
original maturity of these loans was January 2006 with a weighted average
interest rate of 10.35%.

At December 31, 2005, minimum future principal
payments to be received on secured loans receivable are $66.5 million in 2006,
$8.8 million in 2007, $2.4 million in 2008, $7.2 million in 2009, $39.8 million
in 2010, and $50.7 million thereafter.

F-


HEALTH CARE PROPERTY INVESTORS, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

Following
is a summary of secured loans receivable at December 31, 2005:

(9)

Debt

Senior Unsecured
Notes

Following
is a summary of senior unsecured notes outstanding at December 31, 2005
(dollars in thousands):

F-


HEALTH CARE PROPERTY INVESTORS, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

In June 2004, the Company issued $25 million in
aggregate principal amount of 6.00% fixed rate senior notes due 2014 and $25
million in aggregate principal amount of variable-rate senior notes due 2014.
In July 2004, the Company issued $37 million in aggregate principal amount
of 6.00% senior notes due 2014. In February 2003, the Company issued $200
million in aggregate principal amount of 6.00% senior notes due 2015.

On April 27, 2005, the Company issued $250
million of 5.625% senior unsecured notes due 2017. The notes were priced at
99.585% of the principal amount with an effective yield of 5.673%. The Company
received proceeds of $247 million, which were used to repay outstanding
indebtedness and for general corporate purposes.

Senior unsecured notes at December 31, 2004,
included $200 million principal amount of Mandatory Par Put Remarketed
Securities (“MOPPRS”), due June 8, 2015. The MOPPRS contained an option
(the “MOPPRS Option”) exercisable by the Remarketing Dealer, an investment bank
affiliate, which derived its value from the yield on ten-year U.S. Treasury
rates relative to a fixed strike rate of 5.565%. Generally, the value of the
option to the Remarketing Dealer increased as ten-year Treasury rates declined
and the option’s value to the Remarketing Dealer decreased as ten-year Treasury
rates increased. On June 3, 2005, the Remarketing Dealer exercised its
option to redeem the Company’s $200 million principal amount of 6.875% MOPPRS. The
Remarketing Dealer redeemed the securities from the holders at par plus accrued
interest, and reissued ten-year senior notes with a coupon of 7.072%. The
reissued notes are at an effective interest rate which is higher than what
would otherwise have been available if the Company had issued new ten-year
notes at par value.

On September 16, 2005, the Company issued $200
million of 4.875% senior unsecured notes due 2010. The notes were priced at
99.567% of the principal amount with an effective yield of 4.974%. The Company
received net proceeds of $198 million, which were used to repay outstanding
indebtedness and for other general corporate purposes.

During the year ended December 31, 2005, the
Company repaid $31 million of maturing senior unsecured notes which accrued
interest at a rate of 7.5%. These notes were repaid with funds available under
the Company’s bank line of credit.

The weighted average interest rate on the senior
unsecured notes at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, was 6.23% and
6.55%. Discounts and premiums are amortized to interest expense over the term
of the related debt.

The senior unsecured notes
contain certain covenants including limitations on debt and other terms
customary in transactions of this type.

Mortgage Debt

At December 31, 2005, the Company had $236.1
million in mortgage debt secured by 38 healthcare facilities with a carrying
amount of $384.5 million. Interest rates on the mortgage notes ranged from
2.75% to 9.32%. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the weighted-average
interest rate on mortgage notes payable was 7.05% and 7.86%, respectively.

The instruments
encumbering the properties restrict title transfer of the respective properties
subject to the terms of the mortgage, prohibit additional liens, restrict
prepayment, require payment of real estate taxes, maintenance of the properties
in good condition, maintenance of insurance on the properties and include a requirement
to obtain lender consent to enter into material tenant leases.

F-


HEALTH CARE PROPERTY INVESTORS, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

Bank Line of Credit

In October 2004, the
Company closed a $500 million three-year unsecured revolving credit facility.
Interest accrues at LIBOR plus 65 basis points, based on the Company’s current
credit ratings, with a 15 basis point facility fee. The credit agreement
contains certain financial restrictions and requirements customary in
transactions of this type. The more significant covenants, using terms defined
in the agreements, limit (i) Consolidated Total Indebtedness to Total
Asset Value to 60%, (ii) Secured Debt to Total Asset Value to 30%, and (iii) Unsecured
Debt to Consolidated Unencumbered Asset Value to 60%. The agreement also
requires that the Company maintain (i) a Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio, as
defined, of 1.75 times and (ii) a formula-determined Minimum Tangible Net
Worth. As of December 31, 2005, the Company was in compliance with each of
these restrictions and requirements. The weighted average interest rate on
outstanding line of credit borrowings at December 31, 2005 and 2004 was 5.01%
and 3.14%, respectively.

Debt Maturities

Debt
maturities and scheduled principal payments at December 31, 2005 are as
follows (in thousands):

(10)   Commitments and Contingencies

The Company, from time to time, is party to legal
proceedings, lawsuits and other claims in the ordinary course of the Company’s
business. These claims, even if not meritorious, could force the Company to
spend significant financial resources. Except as described below, the Company
is not aware of any legal proceedings or claims that it believes will have,
individually or taken together, a material adverse effect on its business,
prospects, financial condition or results of operations.

On September 26, 2005, the Company filed a
lawsuit in Superior Court of California, County of San Diego entitled

Health Care Property Investors, Inc. v. Fenton
Partners, Fenton & Grust, LLC and SRG Holdco, LP.

The
Company held an option to acquire certain limited partnership units in SRG
Holdco, LP. The Company settled this lawsuit on November 11, 2005. The
settlement included a payment to the Company of $1.7 million. The Company
accounted for the transfer of this financial asset as a sale and recognized a
gain of approximately $1.3 million based on the proceeds received less the
carrying value of the securities. The net gain from the sale of these
securities is included in interest and other income.

One of the Company’s properties located in Tarzana,
California is affected by State of California Senate Bill 1953 (SB 1953), which
requires certain seismic safety building standards for acute care hospital
facilities. This hospital is operated by Tenet under a lease expiring in February 2009.
The Company and

F-


HEALTH CARE PROPERTY INVESTORS, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

Tenet are currently
reviewing the SB 1953 compliance of this hospital, multiple plans of action to
cause such compliance, the estimated time for completing the same, and the cost
of performing necessary remediation of the property. We cannot currently
estimate the remediation costs that will need to be incurred prior to 2013 in
order to make the facility SB 1953-compliant through 2030, and the final
allocation of any remediation costs between the Company and Tenet. Rent on the
hospital in 2005 and 2004 was $10.8 million and $10.6 million, respectively,
and the carrying amount was $76.1 million at December 31, 2005.

Certain residents of two of the Company’s senior
housing facilities have entered into a master trust agreement with the operator
of the facilities whereby amounts paid upfront by such residents were deposited
into a trust account. These funds were then made available to the senior
housing operator in the form of a non-interest bearing loan to provide
permanent financing for the related communities. The operator of the senior
housing is the borrower under these arrangements; however, two of the Company’s
properties are collateral under the master trust agreements. As of December 31,
2005, the remaining obligation under the master trust agreements for these two
properties is $10.8 million. The Company’s property is released as collateral
as the master trust liabilities are extinguished.

On July 28, 2005, in connection with the
acquisition of SCCI Healthcare Services Corporation (“SCCI”) by Triumph
Healthcare Holdings, Inc. (“Buyer”), the Company sold its securities in
SCCI, with a carrying value of zero, and received proceeds of $2.9 million.
Pursuant to certain indemnities specified in the related Stock Purchase
Agreement (“SPA”), the Company could be required to return or pay to the Buyer
a portion of the proceeds received from the sale of its shares in certain
circumstances. Specifically, the SPA provides that each seller under the SPA,
severally but not jointly, indemnifies Buyer for damages relating to certain
legal proceedings, which are defined in the SPA. The SPA generally imposes an
aggregate cap on the liability of the sellers for indemnities under the SPA in
the amount of $17.5 million, which sum was deposited into escrow at the closing
of the sale as a holdback. The Company accounted for the transfer of this
financial asset as a sale and recognized a gain of approximately $2.8 million
based on the proceeds received less the estimated fair value of the indemnities.
The gain from the sale of these securities is included in interest and other
income in the Company’s results of operations for the year ended December 31,
2005.

Earn-out

Obligations.

Pursuant
to the terms of certain acquisition-related agreements, the Company may be
obligated to make additional payments (“Earn-outs”) upon the achievement of
certain criteria. If it is probable at the time of acquisition of the related
properties that the Earn-out criteria will be achieved, the Earn-out payments
are accrued. Otherwise, the additional purchase consideration is recognized
when the performance criteria are achieved.

General
Uninsured Losses.

The Company obtains various
types of insurance to mitigate the impact of property, business interruption,
liability, flood, earthquake and terrorism related losses. The Company attempts
to obtain appropriate policy terms, conditions, limits and deductibles
considering the relative risk of loss, the cost of such coverage and current
industry practice. There are, however, certain types of extraordinary losses,
such as those due to acts of war or other events that may be either uninsurable
or not economically insurable. Although the Company has obtained coverage to
mitigate the impact of various casualty losses, with policy specifications and
insured limits that it believes are commercially reasonable, there can be no
assurance that the Company will be able to collect under such policies or that
the policies will provide adequate coverage. Should an uninsured loss occur at
a property, the Company’s assets may

F-


HEALTH CARE PROPERTY INVESTORS, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

become impaired and the
Company may not be able to operate its business at the property for an extended
period of time.

Leases
with certain tenants contain purchase options whereby the tenant may elect to
acquire the underlying real estate. Annualized lease payments to be received
from leases subject to purchase options, in the year that these purchase
options are exercisable, are summarized as follows (dollars in thousands):

The
Company’s rental expense attributable to continuing operations for the years
ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 was approximately $2.6 million,
$1.3 million and $0.6 million, respectively. These rental expense amounts
include ground rent and other leases. Future minimum lease obligations under
non-cancelable ground leases as of December 31, 2005 were as follows (in
thousands):

(11)   Derivative Financial Instruments

In July 2005, the
Company entered into three interest-rate swap contracts that are designated as
hedging the variability in expected cash flows for variable rate debt assumed
in connection with the acquisition of a portfolio of real estate assets in July 2005.
The cash flow hedges have a notional amount of $45.6 million and expire in July 2020.
The fair value of these contracts at December 31, 2005, was $0.4 million
and is included in other assets. For the year ended December 31, 2005, the
Company recognized increased interest expense of $0.2 million attributable to
the contracts. The Company determined that these swap agreements were highly
effective in offsetting future variable-interest cash flows related to the
assumed mortgages. The effective portion of gains and losses on these contracts
is recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) whereas the
ineffective portion is recognized in earnings. During the year ended December 31,
2005, there was no ineffective portion related to these hedges.

F-


HEALTH CARE PROPERTY INVESTORS, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

(12)   Stockholders’ Equity

Common Stock

Dividends
on the Company’s common stock are characterized for federal income tax purposes
as taxable ordinary income, capital gain distributions, nontaxable
distributions or a combination thereof. Following is the characterization of
the Company’s annual common stock dividends per share:

During 2005 and 2004, the Company issued 0.9 million
shares of common stock under its Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan
(DRIP) in each year. The Company issued 1.4 million shares upon exercise of stock
options in each of the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004.

On February 6, 2006,
the Company announced that its Board declared a quarterly cash dividend of
$0.425 per share. The common stock cash dividend will be paid on February 23,
2006 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on February 13,
2006.

Preferred Stock

The Series E
and Series F preferred stock have no stated maturity, are not subject to
any sinking fund or mandatory redemption and are not convertible into any other
securities of the Company. Dividends are payable quarterly in arrears. The
following summarizes cumulative redeemable preferred stock outstanding at December 31,
2005:

Series

Shares

Outstanding

Issue Price

Dividend

Rate

Callable at

Par on or After

Series E

4,000,000

$

25/share

7.25

%

September 15, 2008

Series F

7,820,000

$

25/share

7.10

%

December 3, 2008

Dividends
on preferred stock are characterized as ordinary income, capital gains, or a
combination thereof for federal income tax purposes and are summarized in the
following annual distribution table:

On September 15, 2003, the Company issued
4,000,000 shares of 7.25% Series E Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock
at $25 per share, generating gross proceeds of $100 million.

F-


HEALTH CARE PROPERTY INVESTORS, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

On December 3, 2003, the Company issued 7,820,000
shares of 7.10% Series F Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock at $25 per
share, raising gross proceeds of $195.5 million.

On May 2, 2003, the Company redeemed all of the
outstanding 8.6% Series C preferred stock. The amount paid to redeem the
preferred stock was approximately $99.4 million plus accrued dividends. The
redemption amount in excess of the carrying amount of the Series C
preferred stock resulted in a preferred stock redemption charge of $11.8
million.

On September 10, 2003, the Company redeemed all
of the outstanding 7.875% Series A preferred stock. The amount paid to
redeem the Series A preferred stock was approximately $60 million plus
accrued dividends. The redemption amount in excess of the carrying amount of
the Series A preferred stock resulted in a preferred stock redemption
charge of $2.2 million.

On October 1, 2003, the Company redeemed all of
the 8.7% Series B preferred stock. The amount paid to redeem the Series B
preferred stock was approximately $133.6 million plus accrued dividends. The
redemption amount in excess of the carrying amount of the Series B
preferred stock resulted in a preferred stock redemption charge of $4.6
million.

On January 2006, the
Company announced that its Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash
dividend of $0.45313 per share on its Series E cumulative redeemable
preferred stock and $0.44375 per share on its Series F cumulative
redeemable preferred stock. These dividends will be paid on March 31, 2006
to stockholders of record as of the close of business on March 15, 2006.

Accumulated Other Comprehensive (Income) Loss (“AOCI”)
and Other Equity

Other
comprehensive income and losses are additions to and reductions of net income,
respectively, in calculating comprehensive income. Comprehensive income for the
years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 was $174.4 million and $167.2
million, respectively.

(13)   Impairments

During 2005, no properties were determined to be
impaired in connection with an assessment of the underlying undiscounted cash
flows or as a result of the Company’s intent to dispose of the asset. During
2004 and 2003, 16 and 15 properties respectively, were deemed impaired
resulting in impairment charges of $17.1 million and $14.0 million,
respectively. Impairment charges principally arose as a result of reduced
anticipated holding periods and planned near-term dispositions.

F-


HEALTH CARE PROPERTY INVESTORS, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

Impairment
charges are summarized as follows:

(14)   Supplemental
Cash Flow Information

Supplemental Cash Flow Information

(15)   Earnings
Per Common Share

The Company computes earnings per share in accordance
with SFAS No. 128,

Earnings Per Share

.
Basic earnings per common share is computed by dividing net income applicable
to common shares by the weighted average number of shares of common stock
outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per common share is calculated
including the effect of dilutive securities. Approximately 0.9 million, 1.0 million
and 1.0 million options to purchase shares of common stock that had an exercise
price in excess of the average market price of the common stock during 2005,
2004 and 2003 were not included because they are not dilutive. Additionally,
6.0 million shares issuable upon conversion of 3.4 million non-managing member
units in 2005, 5.1 million shares issuable upon conversion of 2.5 million
non-managing member units in 2004 and 5.4 million shares issuable upon the conversion
of 2.7 million non-managing member units in 2003 were not included since they
are anti-dilutive.

F-


HEALTH CARE PROPERTY INVESTORS, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

(16)   Disclosures
About Fair Value of Financial Instruments

The
carrying amount of cash and cash equivalents, receivables, payables, and
accrued liabilities are reasonable estimates of fair value because of the short
maturities of these instruments. Fair values for secured loans receivable,
senior unsecured notes and mortgage debt are estimates based on rates currently
prevailing for similar instruments of similar maturities. The fair values of
the interest rate swaps and the MOPPRS Option were determined through estimates
provided by investment bank affiliates. The fair values of the available for
sale securities were determined based on market quotes.

(17)   Compensation Plans

Stock Based
Compensation

The Company’s 2000 Stock
Incentive Plan (the “Incentive Plan”) provides for the granting of stock based
compensation, including stock options, restricted stock, and performance
restricted stock units. The maximum number of shares issuable over the term of
the Incentive Plan is 11.4 million shares with approximately 4.9 million shares
available for future awards at December 31, 2005, of which approximately
262,700 shares may be issued as restricted stock and performance restricted
stock units.

F-


HEALTH CARE PROPERTY INVESTORS, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

Stock Options

Stock options are
generally granted with an exercise price equal to the fair market value of the
underlying stock on the date of grant. Stock options generally vest ratably
over a five-year period. Vesting of certain options may accelerate upon
retirement, a change in control of the Company, as defined, and other events. A
summary of the option activity is presented in the following table (in
thousands, except per share amounts):

A
summary of stock options outstanding at December 31, 2005, is presented in
the following table (in thousands, except per share and life data).

F-


HEALTH CARE PROPERTY INVESTORS, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

The
weighted average fair value per share at the dates of grant for options awarded
during 2005, 2004 and 2003 was $1.87, $1.79 and $0.91, respectively. At
December 31, 2005, the remaining unamortized cost of stock options was
$3.2 million. The fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of
grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The assumptions underlying
the determination of such fair values for options granted are summarized as
follows:




Dividend yield

7.5

%

7.5

%

8.7

%

Expected
  life—years

6.5



Risk-free
  interest rate

3.71

%

2.78

%

3.99

%

Expected stock price
  volatility


%


%


%

Restricted Stock
and Performance Restricted Stock Units

Under
the Incentive Plan, restricted stock and performance restricted stock units
generally vest over a three to five year period. The vesting of certain
restricted shares and units may accelerate upon retirement, a change in control
of the Company, as defined, and other events. When vested, each performance
restricted stock unit is convertible into one share of common stock. The restricted
stock and performance restricted stock units are valued on the grant date based
on the market price of a common share on that date. Generally, the Company
recognizes the fair value of the awards over the applicable vesting period as
compensation expense. At December 31, 2005, there were 0.5 million
unvested shares of restricted stock and 0.5 million performance restricted
stock units outstanding, with no units vested and convertible into common
stock. At December 31, 2005, the remaining unamortized cost of restricted
stock and performance restricted stock units was $8.5 million and $7.9 million,
respectively. The following table summarizes awards for restricted stock and
performance restricted stock units (in thousands):

Employee Benefit
Plan

The Company maintains a
401(k) and profit sharing plan that allows for eligible participants to
defer compensation, subject to certain limitations imposed by the Code. The
Company provides a matching contribution of up to 4% of each participant’s
eligible compensation. During 2005, 2004 and 2003, the Company’s matching
contributions have been approximately $0.2 million in each year.

(18)   Segment Disclosures

The Company’s business consists of financing and
leasing healthcare-related real estate. The Company evaluates its business and
makes resource allocations on its two business segments—triple-net leased and
medical office buildings segments. Under the triple-net leased segment, the
Company invests in healthcare-related real estate through acquisition and secured
financing of primarily single tenant properties. Properties acquired are
primarily leased under triple-net leases. Under the medical office buildings
segment, the Company acquires medical office buildings that are primarily
leased under gross or modified gross leases, and generally require a greater
level of property management. The accounting

F-


HEALTH CARE PROPERTY INVESTORS, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

policies of the segments
are the same as those described in the summary of significant accounting
policies (See Note 2). There are no intersegment sales or transfers. The
Company evaluates performance based upon property net operating income of the
combined properties in each segment.

Non-segment revenue consists mainly of interest on
unsecured loans and other fee income. Non-segment assets consist of corporate
assets including cash, restricted cash, accounts receivable, net and deferred
financing costs. Interest expense, depreciation and amortization, and other
non-property specific revenues and expenses are not allocated to individual
segments in determining the Company’s performance measure.

Summary information
for the reportable segments is as follows (dollars in thousands):

For
the year ended December 31, 2005:

For
the year ended December 31, 2004:

F-


HEALTH CARE PROPERTY INVESTORS, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

For
the year ended December 31, 2003:

(1)

Net Operating Income
from Continuing Operations (“NOI”) is a non-GAAP supplemental financial measure
used to evaluate the operating performance of real estate properties. The
Company defines NOI as rental revenues, including tenant reimbursements, less
property level operating expenses, which exclude depreciation and amortization,
general and administrative expenses, impairments, interest expense and
discontinued operations. The Company believes NOI provides investors relevant
and useful information because it measures the operating performance of the
Company’s real estate at the property level on an unleveraged basis. The
Company uses NOI to make decisions about resource allocations and assess
property level performance. The Company believes that net income is the most
directly comparable GAAP measure to NOI. NOI should not be viewed as an
alternative measure of operating performance to net income as defined by GAAP
since it does not reflect the aforementioned excluded items. Further, NOI may
not be comparable to that of other real estate investment trusts, as they may
use different methodologies for calculating NOI.

The
following is a reconciliation from NOI to reported net income, a financial
measure under GAAP (in thousands):

F-


HEALTH CARE PROPERTY INVESTORS, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

The
Company’s total assets by segment were:

(19)   Transactions
with Related Parties

Mr. Fanning, a director of the Company, on
January 1, 2004, had remaining balances on loans from the Company of
$107,938 with an interest rate of 5.55% due on April 8, 2004 and $127,690
with an interest rate of 3.85% due on April 9, 2005. Mr. Fanning paid
both loans in full on April 5, 2004. The loans were made for the purpose
of purchasing shares upon option exercise and such loans were secured by the
common stock of the Company. The authority of the Company to maintain such
loans was “grandfathered” under the Exchange Act, as amended by
Section 402 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

Mr. Flaherty, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, of
the Company, is a director of Quest Diagnostics Incorporated (“Quest”). During
2005, Quest made payments of approximately $0.5 million to the Company or its
affiliates for the lease of medical office space at 14 locations. The leases
for 12 of those locations were initially entered into by the predecessor
landlord prior to the Company’s ownership of the particular medical office
building with eight of those leases entered into before Mr. Flaherty became an
employee and director of the Company and a director of Quest.

Mr. McKee, a director of the Company, is Vice Chairman
and Chief Operating Officer of The Irvine Company. During each of 2005, 2004
and 2003, the Company made payments of approximately $0.6 million, $0.5
million and

$

0.5 million, respectively, to The
Irvine Company for the lease of office space.

Mr. Messmer, a director of the Company, is Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer of Robert Half International Inc. During 2005, 2004
and 2003, the Company made payments of approximately $0.1 million, $1.1
million and $0.1 million, respectively, to Robert Half International Inc. and
certain of its subsidiaries for services including placement of temporary and
permanent employees and Sarbanes-Oxley compliance consultation.

Mr. Rhein, a director of the Company, is a director of
Cohen & Steers, Inc. Cohen & Steers Capital
Management, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Cohen &
Steers, Inc., is an investment adviser registered under Section 203
of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. As of December 31, 2005, mutual
funds

F-


HEALTH CARE PROPERTY INVESTORS, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

managed by
Cohen & Steers Capital Management, Inc., in the aggregate, owned
6.2% of the Company’s common stock.

Mr. Sullivan, a director of the Company, was a
director of SCCI prior to July 28, 2005 and is a director of Covenant
Care, Inc. During 2005, 2004 and 2003, SCCI made payments of approximately
$0.9 million, $1.0 million and $1.3 million, respectively, to the Company for a
lease and a loan, which loan was paid in full in July 2004, related to two
of its hospital properties, and Covenant Care, Inc. made payments of
approximately $8.0 million, $7.9 million and $7.6 million, respectively, to the
Company for the lease of certain of its nursing home properties. Prior to
July 28, 2005, the Company also owned certain preferred convertible
securities in SCCI. On July 28, 2005, in connection with the acquisition
of SCCI by Triumph Healthcare Holdings, Inc., the Company sold its
securities in SCCI, and received proceeds of $2.9 million. The acquisition of
the convertible securities in SCCI and the agreements that required payment to
the Company from SCCI and Covenant Care were entered into prior to
Mr. Sullivan being elected a director of the Company.

Pursuant to the original purchase agreement dated
October 2, 2003, the Company paid $9.8 million during the year ended
December 31, 2005, in additional purchase consideration in the form of an
earn-out to the former members of MedCap Properties, LLC related to the Company’s
2003 acquisition of four MOBs that were under development at the time of
acquisition. The amounts paid included $3.7 million paid to former members who
are now senior officers of the Company. At the time that the original purchase
agreement was entered into, the former members were not officers of the
Company.

Notwithstanding these matters, the Board of Directors
of the Company has determined, in accordance with the categorical standards
adopted by the Board, that each of Messrs. McKee, Messmer, Rhein and Sullivan
is independent within the meaning of the rules of the New York Stock
Exchange.

See Note 10 for a
discussion of the sale of the Company’s securities in SCCI.

(20)   Subsequent Events

On January 4, 2006, the Company acquired five
medical office buildings for $41 million. The medical office buildings include
approximately 216,000 rentable square feet and have an initial yield of 7.7%.

On February 8, 2006,
the Company acquired four laboratory, office and biotech manufacturing
buildings located in San Diego, California for $31 million. The initial yield
is 6.0%, with the stabilized yield expected to be 8.3%. The buildings include
approximately 158,000 rentable square feet.

F-


HEALTH CARE PROPERTY INVESTORS, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

(21)   Selected
Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)

Results of operations for properties sold or to be
sold have been classified as discontinued operations for all periods presented.

F-


Health Care Property Investors, Inc.

Schedule III: Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation

December 31, 2005

(Dollars in Thousands)

F-


Health Care Property Investors, Inc.

Schedule III: Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation (Continued)

December 31, 2005

(Dollars in Thousands)

F-


Health Care Property Investors, Inc.

Schedule III: Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation (Continued)

December 31, 2005

(Dollars in Thousands)

F-


Health Care Property Investors, Inc.

Schedule III: Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation (Continued)

December 31, 2005

(Dollars in Thousands)

F-


Health Care Property Investors, Inc.

Schedule III: Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation (Continued)

December 31, 2005

(Dollars in Thousands)

F-


Health Care Property Investors, Inc.

Schedule III: Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation (Continued)

December 31, 2005

(Dollars in Thousands)

F-


Health Care Property Investors, Inc.

Schedule III: Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation (Continued)

December 31, 2005

(Dollars in Thousands)

F-


Health Care Property Investors, Inc.

Schedule III: Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation (Continued)

December 31, 2005

(Dollars in Thousands)

F-


Health Care Property Investors, Inc.

Schedule III: Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation (Continued)

December 31, 2005

(Dollars in Thousands)

F-


Health Care Property Investors, Inc.

Schedule III: Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation (Continued)

December 31, 2005

(Dollars in Thousands)

*       Property is in development and not yet placed in service.

Schedule III total

$

3,895,230

Less: In-place
  lease intangibles included in other assets and deferred revenue

39,289

Amount included under
  real estate on consolidated balance sheet

$

3,855,941

(b)

A
summary of activity for real estate and accumulated depreciation for the year
ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 is as follows (in thousands):

F-

45