Item 1A.Risk Factors

Our business activities, and our industry in general, are subject to a variety of risks. If any of the following risk factors should
occur, our profitability, financial condition or liquidity could be materially impacted. As a result, holders of our securities could lose part or all of their investment in Devon.

Oil, Gas and NGL Prices are Volatile

Our financial results are highly
dependent on the general supply and demand for oil, gas and NGLs, which impact the prices we ultimately realize on our sales of these commodities. A significant downward movement of the prices for these commodities could have a material adverse
effect on our revenues, operating cash flows and profitability. Such a downward price movement could also have a material adverse effect on our estimated proved reserves, the carrying value of our oil and gas properties, the level of planned
drilling activities and future growth. Historically, market prices and our realized prices have been volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile in the future due to numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include but are not
limited to:



•supply of and consumer demand for oil, gas and NGLs;



•conservation efforts;



•OPEC production levels;



•geopolitical risks;



•weather;



•regional pricing differentials;



•differing quality of oil produced (i.e., sweet crude versus heavy or sour crude);



•differing quality and NGL content of gas produced;



•the level of imports and exports of oil, gas and NGLs;



•the price and availability of alternative fuels;



•the overall economic environment; and



•governmental regulations and taxes.

Estimates of Oil, Gas and NGL Reserves are Uncertain

The process of
estimating oil, gas and NGL reserves is complex and requires significant judgment in the evaluation of available geological, engineering and economic data for each reservoir, particularly for new discoveries. Because of the high degree of judgment
involved, different reserve engineers may develop different estimates of reserve quantities and related revenue based on the same data. In addition, the reserve estimates for a given reservoir may change substantially over time as a result of
several factors including additional development activity, the viability of production under varying economic conditions and variations in production levels and associated costs. Consequently, material revisions to existing reserve estimates may
occur as a result of changes in any of these factors. Such revisions to proved reserves could have a material adverse effect on our estimates of future net revenue, as well as our financial condition and profitability. Our policies and internal
controls related to estimating and recording reserves are included in “Items 1 and 2. Business and Properties” of this report.

Discoveries or Acquisitions of Reserves are Needed to Avoid a Material Decline in Reserves and Production

The production rates from oil and gas properties generally decline as reserves are depleted, while related per unit production costs
generally increase, due to decreasing reservoir pressures and other factors. Therefore, our estimated proved reserves and future oil, gas and NGL production will decline materially as reserves are produced







unless we conduct successful exploration and development activities or, through engineering studies, identify additional producing zones in existing wells, utilize secondary or tertiary recovery
techniques or acquire additional properties containing proved reserves. Consequently, our future oil, gas and NGL production and related per unit production costs are highly dependent upon our level of success in finding or acquiring additional
reserves.

Future Exploration and Drilling Results are Uncertain and Involve Substantial Costs

Substantial costs are often required to locate and acquire properties and drill exploratory wells. Such activities are subject to numerous
risks, including the risk that we will not encounter commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs. The costs of drilling and completing wells are often uncertain. In addition, oil and gas properties can become damaged or drilling operations may be
curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors including but not limited to:



•unexpected drilling conditions;



•pressure or irregularities in reservoir formations;



•equipment failures or accidents;



•fires, explosions, blowouts and surface cratering;



•adverse weather conditions;



•lack of access to pipelines or other transportation methods;



•environmental hazards or liabilities; and



•shortages or delays in the availability of services or delivery of equipment.

A significant occurrence of one of these factors could result in a partial or total loss of our investment in a particular property. In
addition, drilling activities may not be successful in establishing proved reserves. Such a failure could have an adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial condition. While both exploratory and developmental drilling
activities involve these risks, exploratory drilling involves greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons.

Competition for Leases, Materials, People and Capital can be Significant

Strong competition exists in all sectors of the oil and gas industry. We compete with major integrated and independent oil and gas
companies for the acquisition of oil and gas leases and properties. We also compete for the equipment and personnel required to explore, develop and operate properties. Competition is also prevalent in the marketing of oil, gas and NGLs. Typically,
during times of high or rising commodity prices, drilling and operating costs will also increase. Higher prices will also generally increase the cost to acquire properties. Certain of our competitors have financial and other resources substantially
larger than ours. They also may have established strategic long-term positions and relationships in areas in which we may seek new entry. As a consequence, we may be at a competitive disadvantage in bidding for drilling rights. In addition, many of
our larger competitors may have a competitive advantage when responding to factors that affect demand for oil and gas production, such as changing worldwide price and production levels, the cost and availability of alternative fuels and the
application of government regulations.

Midstream Capacity Constraints and Interruptions Impact Commodity Sales

We rely on midstream facilities and systems to process our natural gas production and to transport our oil, natural gas and NGL production
to downstream markets. Such midstream systems include EnLink’s systems, as well as other systems operated by us or third parties. When possible, we gain access to midstream systems that provide the most advantageous downstream market prices
available to us. Regardless of who operates the midstream systems we rely upon, a portion of our production in any region may be interrupted or shut in from time to time due to loss of access to plants, pipelines or gathering systems. Such access
could be lost due to a







number of factors, including, but not limited to, weather conditions, accidents, field labor issues or strikes. Additionally, we and third-parties may be subject to constraints that limit our
ability to construct, maintain or repair midstream facilities needed to process and transport our production. Such interruptions or constraints could negatively impact our production and associated profitability.

Hedging Limits Participation in Commodity Price Increases and Increases Counterparty Credit Risk Exposure

We periodically enter into hedging activities with respect to a portion of our production to manage our exposure to oil, gas and NGL price
volatility. To the extent that we engage in price risk management activities to protect ourselves from commodity price declines, we may be prevented from fully realizing the benefits of commodity price increases above the prices established by our
hedging contracts. In addition, our hedging arrangements may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which the contract counterparties fail to perform under the contracts.

Public Policy, which Includes Laws, Rules and Regulations, can Change

Our operations are generally subject to federal laws, rules and regulations in the United States and Canada. In addition, we are also subject to the laws and regulations of various states, provinces,
tribal and local governments. Pursuant to public policy changes, numerous government departments and agencies have issued extensive rules and regulations binding on the oil and gas industry and its individual members, some of which require
substantial compliance costs and carry substantial penalties for failure to comply. Changes in such public policy have affected, and at times in the future could affect, our operations. Political developments can restrict production levels, enact
price controls, change environmental protection requirements and increase taxes, royalties and other amounts payable to governments or governmental agencies. Existing laws and regulations can also require us to incur substantial costs to maintain
regulatory compliance. Our operating and other compliance costs could increase further if existing laws and regulations are revised or reinterpreted or if new laws and regulations become applicable to our operations. Although we are unable to
predict changes to existing laws and regulations, such changes could significantly impact our profitability, financial condition and liquidity, particularly changes related to hydraulic fracturing, income taxes and climate change as discussed below.

Hydraulic Fracturing– Several proposals are before the U.S. Congress and other federal agencies that, if
implemented, could either restrict the practice of hydraulic fracturing or subject the process to further regulation, including regulation of hydraulic fracturing on federal lands and tribal reservations; regulation of air emissions; regulation of
wastewater discharges from unconventional oil and gas resources; and required disclosure of chemicals and mixtures used in hydraulic fracturing. Many states have already adopted and more states are considering adopting laws and/or regulations
that require disclosure of chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing and impose stringent permitting, disclosure and well-construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations. Hydraulic fracturing of wells and subsurface water disposal are
also under public and governmental scrutiny due to potential environmental and physical impacts. In addition, some states and municipalities have significantly limited drilling activities and/or hydraulic fracturing, or are considering doing
so. Although it is not possible at this time to predict the final outcome of these proposals, any new federal, state or local restrictions on hydraulic fracturing that may be imposed in areas in which we conduct business could potentially
result in increased compliance costs, delays in development or restrictions on our operations.

Income Taxes– We
are subject to federal, state, provincial and local income taxes, and our operating cash flow is sensitive to the amount of income taxes we must pay. In the jurisdictions in which we operate, income taxes are assessed on our earnings after
consideration of all allowable deductions and credits. Changes in the types of earnings that are subject to income tax, the types of costs that are considered allowable deductions or the rates assessed on our taxable earnings would all impact our
income taxes and resulting operating cash flow. The United States President and other policy makers have proposed provisions that would, if enacted, make significant changes to United States tax laws applicable to us. The most significant change to
our business would eliminate the immediate deduction for intangible drilling and development costs. Such a change could have a material adverse effect on our profitability, financial condition and liquidity.







Climate Change

Environmental Matters
and Costs can be Significant

As an owner, lessee or operator of oil and gas properties, we are subject to various federal,
state, provincial, tribal and local laws and regulations relating to discharge of materials into, and protection of, the environment. These laws and regulations may, among other things, impose liability on us for the cost of pollution clean-up
resulting from our operations in affected areas. Any future environmental costs of fulfilling our commitments to the environment are uncertain and will be governed by several factors, including future changes to regulatory requirements. Changes in
or additions to public policy regarding the protection of the environment could have a significant impact on our operations and profitability.

Insurance Does Not Cover All Risks

Our business is hazardous and is subject to all of the operating risks normally associated with the exploration, development, production, processing and transportation of oil, natural gas and NGLs. Such
risks include potential blowouts, cratering, fires, loss of well control, mishandling of fluids and chemicals and possible underground migration of hydrocarbons and chemicals. The occurrence of any of these risks could result in environmental
pollution, damage to or destruction of our property, equipment and natural resources, injury to people or loss of life. Additionally, for our non-operated properties, we generally depend on the operator for operational safety and regulatory
compliance.

To mitigate financial losses resulting from these operational hazards, we maintain comprehensive general
liability insurance, as well as insurance coverage against certain losses resulting from physical damages, loss of well control, business interruption and pollution events that are considered sudden and accidental. We also maintain worker’s
compensation and employer’s liability insurance. However, our insurance coverage does not provide 100 percent reimbursement of potential losses resulting from these operational hazards. Additionally, insurance coverage is generally not
available to us for pollution events that are considered gradual, and we have limited or no insurance coverage for certain risks such as political risk, war and terrorism. Our insurance does not cover penalties or fines assessed by governmental
authorities. The occurrence of a significant event against which we are not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on our profitability, financial condition and liquidity.







Limited Control on Properties Operated by Others

Certain of the properties in which we have an interest are operated by other companies and involve third-party working interest owners. We
have limited influence and control over the operation or future development of such properties, including compliance with environmental, health and safety regulations or the amount of required future capital expenditures. These limitations and our
dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for these properties could result in unexpected future costs and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.

Cyber Attacks Targeting Our Systems and Infrastructure May Adversely Impact Our Operations

