Item 1A.Risk Factors

The risks described below could have a material adverse impact on our financial position,
results of operations, liquidity and cash flows. Although it is not possible to predict or
identify all such risks and uncertainties, they may include, but are not limited to, the factors
discussed below. Our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that are not
presently known to us or that we currently consider not to be material to our operations. The
reader should not consider this list to be a complete statement of all risks and uncertainties.

We are subject to legal proceedings that could have a material adverse impact on our financial
position and results of operations.

From time-to-time and in the ordinary course of our business, we and certain of our
subsidiaries may become involved in various legal proceedings involving antitrust, commercial,
employment, environmental, intellectual property, regulatory, tort and other various claims. All
such legal proceedings are inherently unpredictable and the outcome can result in excessive
verdicts and/or injunctive relief that may affect how we operate our business or we may enter into
settlements of claims for monetary damages. Future court decisions and legislative activity may
increase the Company’s exposure to litigation and regulatory investigations. In some cases,
substantial non-economic remedies or punitive damages may be sought. For some complaints filed
against the Company, we are currently unable to estimate the remaining amount of possible losses
that might be incurred should these legal proceedings be resolved against the Company.





McKESSON CORPORATION

The outcome of litigation and other legal matters is always uncertain and outcomes that are
not justified by the evidence or existing law can occur. The Company believes that it has valid
defenses to the legal matters pending against it and is defending itself vigorously. Nevertheless,
it is possible that resolution of one or any combination of more than one legal matter could result
in a material adverse impact on our financial position or results of operations. For example, we
are involved in a number of legal proceedings described in Financial Note 18, “Other Commitments
and Contingent Liabilities,” to the accompanying consolidated financial statements which could have
such an impact, including class actions and other legal proceedings alleging that we engaged in
illegal conduct that caused average wholesale prices to rise for certain prescription drugs during
specified periods.

Litigation is costly, time-consuming and disruptive to normal business operations. The
defense of these matters could also result in continued diversion of our management’s time and
attention away from business operations, which could also harm our business. Even if these matters
are not resolved against us, the uncertainty and expense associated with unresolved legal
proceedings could harm our business and reputation. For additional information regarding certain
of the legal proceedings in which we are involved, see Financial Note 18, “Other Commitments and
Contingent Liabilities,” to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.

Changes in the United States healthcare environment could have a material adverse impact on our
results of operations.

Our products and services are primarily intended to function within the structure of the
healthcare financing and reimbursement system currently being used in the United States. In recent
years, the healthcare industry has changed significantly in an effort to reduce costs. These
changes include increased use of managed care, cuts in Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement levels,
consolidation of pharmaceutical and medical-surgical supply distributors and the development of
large, sophisticated purchasing groups.

We expect the healthcare industry to continue to change significantly in the future. Some of
these changes, such as adverse changes in government funding of healthcare services, legislation or
regulations governing the privacy of patient information or the delivery or pricing of
pharmaceuticals and healthcare services or mandated benefits, may cause healthcare industry
participants to greatly reduce the amount of our products and services they purchase or the price
they are willing to pay for our products and services.

Changes in the healthcare industry’s or our pharmaceutical suppliers’ pricing, selling,
inventory, distribution or supply policies or practices, or changes in our customer mix could also
significantly reduce our revenues and net income. Due to the diverse range of healthcare supply
management and healthcare information technology products and services that we offer, such changes
could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, while not affecting some of our
competitors who offer a narrower range of products and services.

The majority of our U.S. pharmaceutical distribution business’ agreements with manufacturers
are structured to ensure that we are appropriately and predictably compensated for the services we
provide; however, failure to successfully renew these contracts in a timely and favorable manner
could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.

Generic Pharmaceuticals:Healthcare and public policy trends indicate that the number of
generic drugs will increase over the next few years as a result of the expiration of certain drug
patents. In recent years, our financial results have improved from our generic drug offering
programs. An increase or a decrease in the availability or changes in pricing or reimbursement of
these generic drugs could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.

Generic drug manufacturers are increasingly challenging the validity or enforceability of
patents on branded pharmaceutical products. During the pendency of these legal challenges, a
generics manufacturer may begin manufacturing and selling a generic version of the branded product
prior to the final resolution to its legal challenge over the branded product’s patent. To the
extent we source and distribute such generic products launched “at risk,” the brand-name company
could assert infringement claims against us. While we generally obtain indemnification against
such claims from generic manufacturers as a condition of distributing their products, there can be
no assurances that these rights will be adequate or sufficient to protect us.





McKESSON CORPORATION

International Sourcing:We may experience difficulties and delays inherent in sourcing
products and contract manufacturing from foreign countries, including, but not limited to, (1)
difficulties in complying with the requirements of applicable federal, state and local governmental
authorities in the United States and of foreign regulatory authorities, (2) inability to increase
production capacity commensurate with demand or the failure to predict market demand (3) other
manufacturing or distribution problems including changes in types of products produced, limits to
manufacturing capacity due to regulatory requirements or physical limitations that could impact
continuous supply and (4) damage to our reputation due to real or perceived quality issues.
Manufacturing difficulties could result in manufacturing shutdowns, product shortages and delays in
product manufacturing.

Pedigree Tracking:

Healthcare Fraud:





McKESSON CORPORATION

Claims Transmissions:Medical billing and collection activities are governed by numerous
federal and state civil and criminal laws that pertain to companies that provide billing and
collection services or that provide consulting services in connection with billing and collection
activities. In connection with these laws, we may be subjected to federal or state government
investigations and possible penalties may be imposed upon us, false claims actions may have to be
defended, private payors may file claims against us and we may be excluded from Medicare, Medicaid
or other government-funded healthcare programs. Any such proceeding or investigation could have a
material adverse impact on our results of operations.

E-Prescribing:The use of our solutions by physicians for electronic prescribing, electronic
routing of prescriptions to pharmacies and dispensing is governed by federal and state law. States
have differing prescription format requirements, which we have programmed into our software. In
addition, in November 2005, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (the “HHS”) announced
regulations by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”) related to “E-Prescribing and
the Prescription Drug Program” (“E-Prescribing Regulations”). These E-Prescribing Regulations were
mandated by the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003. The
E-Prescribing Regulations set forth standards for the transmission of electronic prescriptions.
These standards are detailed and significant and cover not only transactions between prescribers
and dispensers for prescriptions but also electronic eligibility, benefits inquiries, drug
formulary and benefit coverage information. Our efforts to provide solutions that enable our
clients to comply with these regulations could be time consuming and expensive.

Reimbursements:

Interoperability Standards:





McKESSON CORPORATION

Healthcare Industry Consolidation:In recent years, the pharmaceutical suppliers have been
subject to increasing consolidation. As a result, a small number of very large companies control a
significant share of the market. Accordingly, we depend on fewer suppliers for our products and we
are less able to negotiate price terms with the suppliers. Many healthcare organizations have
consolidated to create larger healthcare enterprises with greater market power. If this
consolidation trend continues, it could reduce the size of our target market and give the resulting
enterprises greater bargaining power, which may lead to erosion of the prices for our products and
services. In addition, when healthcare organizations combine they often consolidate infrastructure
including IT systems and acquisition of our clients could erode our revenue base.

Our future results could be materially affected by a number of public health issues whether
occurring in the United States or abroad.

Public health issues, whether occurring in the United States or abroad, could disrupt our
operations, disrupt the operations of suppliers or customers, or have a broader adverse impact on
consumer spending and confidence levels that would negatively affect our suppliers and customers.
We have developed contingency plans to address infectious disease scenarios and the potential
impact on our operations and will continue to update these plans as necessary. However, there can
be no assurance that these plans will be effective in eliminating the negative impact of any such
diseases on the Company’s operating results. We may be required to suspend operations in some or
all of our locations, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial
condition and results of operations.

Changes in the Canadian healthcare environment could have a material adverse impact on our results
of operations.

Similar to the United States, the Canadian healthcare industry has undergone significant
changes in recent years to reduce costs. The provincial governments provide partial funding for
the purchase of pharmaceuticals and independently regulate the financing and reimbursement of
drugs. The Ontario government revised the drug distribution system in 2006 with the passage of the
Transparent Drug System for Patients Act and has recently announced a review of that legislation in
an attempt to further reduce costs. Some of the changes being considered would adversely affect
the distribution of drugs, pricing for prescription drugs and reduced funding for healthcare
services. Other provinces are considering similar changes, which would lower pharmaceutical
pricing and service fees. Such changes could significantly reduce our Canadian revenue and
operating profit.

Competition may erode our profit.

In every area of healthcare distribution operations, our Distribution Solutions segment faces
strong competition, both in price and service, from national, regional and local full-line,
short-line and specialty wholesalers, service merchandisers, self-warehousing chains, manufacturers
engaged in direct distribution and large payor organizations. In addition, this segment faces
competition from various other service providers and from pharmaceutical and other healthcare
manufacturers (as well as other potential customers of the segment) which may from time-to-time
decide to develop, for their own internal needs, supply management capabilities that would
otherwise be provided by the segment. Price, quality of service, and in some cases, convenience to
the customer are generally the principal competitive elements in this segment.

Our Technology Solutions segment experiences substantial competition from many firms,
including other software services firms, consulting firms, shared service vendors, certain
hospitals and hospital groups, payors, care management organizations, hardware vendors and
Internet-based companies with technology applicable to the healthcare industry. Competition varies
in size from small to large companies, in geographical coverage and in scope and breadth of
products and services offered. These competitive pressures could have a material adverse impact on
our results of operations.





McKESSON CORPORATION

Our Distribution Solutions segment is subject to inflation in branded pharmaceutical prices and
deflation in generic pharmaceutical prices, which subjects us to risks and uncertainties.

Inflation can be the partial basis of some of our U.S. pharmaceutical distribution business’
agreements with branded pharmaceutical manufacturers. If the frequency or rate of branded price
increases slows, it could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. In
addition, we also distribute generic pharmaceuticals, which are subject to price deflation. An
acceleration of the frequency or size of generic price decreases could also have a material adverse
impact on our results of operations.

Substantial defaults in payment, a material reduction in purchases or the loss of a large customer
or group purchasing organization could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition,
results of operations and liquidity.

In recent years, a significant portion of our revenue growth has been with a limited number of
large customers. During 2010, sales to our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 53%
of our total consolidated revenues. Sales to our two largest customers, CVS and Rite Aid,
represented approximately 15% and 12% of our total consolidated revenues. At March 31, 2010,
accounts receivable from our ten largest customers were approximately 45% of total accounts
receivable. Accounts receivable from CVS and Rite Aid were approximately 14% and 10% of total
accounts receivable. As a result, our sales and credit concentration is significant. We also have
agreements with group purchasing organizations (“GPOs”), each of which functions as a purchasing
agent on behalf of member hospitals, pharmacies and other healthcare providers. A default in
payment, a material reduction in purchases from these, or any other large customers or the loss of
a large customer or GPO could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of
operations and liquidity.

We generally sell product to our customers on credit that is short-term in nature and
unsecured. Any adverse change in general economic conditions can adversely reduce sales to our
customers, affect consumer buying practices or cause our customers to delay or be unable to pay
accounts receivable owed to us, which would reduce our revenue growth and cause a decrease in our
profitability and cash flow. Further, interest rate fluctuations and changes in capital market
conditions may affect our customers’ ability to obtain credit to finance their business under
acceptable terms, which would reduce our revenue growth and cause a decrease in our profitability.

Our Distribution Solutions segment is dependent upon sophisticated information systems. The
implementation delay, malfunction, or failure of these systems for any extended period of time
could have a material adverse impact on our business.

We rely on sophisticated information systems in our business to obtain, rapidly process,
analyze and manage data to, (1) facilitate the purchase and distribution of thousands of inventory
items from numerous distribution centers, (2) receive, process and ship orders and handle other
product and services on a timely basis, (3) manage the accurate billing and collections for
thousands of customers and (4) process payments to suppliers. If these systems are interrupted,
damaged by unforeseen events or fail for any extended period of time, we could have a material
adverse impact on our results of operations.

Reduced capacity in the commercial property insurance market exposes us to potential loss.

In order to provide prompt and complete service to our major Distribution Solutions segment’s
customers, we maintain significant product inventory at certain of our distribution centers. While
we seek to maintain property insurance coverage in amounts sufficient for our business, there can
be no assurance that our property insurance will be adequate or available on acceptable terms. One
or more large casualty losses caused by fire, earthquake or other natural disaster in excess of our
coverage limits could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.





McKESSON CORPORATION

We could become subject to liability claims that are not adequately covered by our insurance and
may have to pay damages and other expenses which could have a material adverse impact on our
results of operations.

Our business exposes us to risks that are inherent in the distribution, manufacturing,
dispensing of pharmaceuticals and medical-surgical supplies, the provision of ancillary services,
the conduct of our payor businesses (which include disease management programs and our nurse triage
services) and the provision of products that assist clinical decision-making and relate to patient
medical histories and treatment plans. If customers assert liability claims against our products
and/or services, any ensuing litigation, regardless of outcome, could result in a substantial cost
to us, divert management’s attention from operations and decrease market acceptance of our
products. We attempt to limit our liability to customers by contract; however, the limitations of
liability set forth in the contracts may not be enforceable or may not otherwise protect us from
liability for damages. We also maintain general liability coverage; however, this coverage may not
continue to be available on acceptable terms, may not be available in sufficient amounts to cover
one or more large claims against us and may include larger self-insured retentions or exclusions
for certain products. In addition, the insurer might disclaim coverage as to any future claim. A
successful product or professional liability claim not fully covered by our insurance could have a
material adverse impact on our results of operations.

The failure of our healthcare technology businesses to attract and retain customers due to
challenges in software product integration or to keep pace with technological advances may
significantly reduce our results of operations.

Our healthcare technology businesses, the bulk of which resides in our Technology Solutions
segment, deliver enterprise-wide clinical, patient care, financial, supply chain, strategic
management software solutions and pharmacy automation to hospitals, physicians, homecare providers,
retail and mail order pharmacies and payors. Challenges in integrating software products could
impair our ability to attract and retain customers and could have a material adverse impact on our
consolidated results of operations and a disproportionate impact on the results of operations of
our Technology Solutions segment.

Future advances in the healthcare information systems industry could lead to new technologies,
products or services that are competitive with the technology products and services offered by our
various businesses. Such technological advances could also lower the cost of such products and
services or otherwise result in competitive pricing pressure or render our products obsolete. The
success of our technology businesses will depend, in part, on our ability to be responsive to
technological developments, legislative initiatives, pricing pressures and changing business
models. To remain competitive in the evolving healthcare information systems marketplace, our
technology businesses must also develop new products on a timely basis. The failure to develop
competitive products and to introduce new products on a timely basis could curtail the ability of
our technology businesses to attract and retain customers and thereby could have a material adverse
impact on our results of operations.

The loss of third party licenses utilized by our technology businesses may have a material adverse
impact on our results of operations.

We license the rights to use certain technologies from third-party vendors to incorporate in
or complement our various healthcare technology products and solutions, which are primarily offered
through our Technology Solutions segment. These licenses are generally nonexclusive, must be
renewed periodically by mutual consent and may be terminated if we breach the terms of the license.
As a result, we may have to discontinue, delay or reduce product shipments until we obtain
equivalent technology, which could hurt our business. Our competitors may obtain the right to use
any of the technology covered by these licenses and use the technology to compete directly with us.
In addition, if our vendors choose to discontinue support of the licensed technology in the
future, we may not be able to modify or adapt our own products.





McKESSON CORPORATION

Proprietary technology protections may not be adequate and products may be found to infringe the
rights of third parties.

System errors or failures of our products to conform to specifications could cause unforeseen
liabilities or injury, harm our reputation and have a material adverse impact on our results of
operations.

The software and software systems (“systems”) that we sell or operate are very complex. As
with complex systems offered by others, our systems may contain errors, especially when first
introduced. For example, our Technology Solutions segment’s business systems are intended to
provide information for healthcare providers in providing patient care. Therefore, users of our
systems have a greater sensitivity to errors than the general market for software products. If our
software or systems lead to faulty clinical decisions or injury to patients, we could be subject to
claims or litigation by our clients, clinicians or patients. In addition, such failures could
damage our reputation and could negatively affect future sales.

Failure of a client’s system to perform in accordance with our documentation could constitute
a breach of warranty and could require us to incur additional expense in order to make the system
comply with the documentation. If such failure is not remedied in a timely manner, it could
constitute a material breach under a contract, allowing the client to cancel the contract, obtain
refunds of amounts previously paid or assert claims for significant damages.

Various risks could interrupt customers’ access to their data residing in our service center,
exposing us to significant costs.





McKESSON CORPORATION

Regulation of our distribution businesses and regulation of our computer-related products could
impose increased costs, delay the introduction of new products and negatively impact our business.

The healthcare industry is highly regulated. We are subject to various local, state, federal,
foreign and transnational laws and regulations, which include the operating and security standards
of the Drug Enforcement Administration (the “DEA”), the FDA, various state boards of pharmacy,
state health departments, the HHS, CMS and other comparable agencies. Certain of our subsidiaries
may be required to register for permits and/or licenses with, and comply with operating and
security standards of the DEA, the FDA, HHS, various state boards of pharmacy, state health
departments and/or comparable state agencies as well as foreign agencies and certain accrediting
bodies depending upon the type of operations and location of product distribution, manufacturing
and sale.

In addition, the FDA has increasingly focused on the regulation of computer products and
computer-assisted products as medical devices under the federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. If
the FDA chooses to regulate any of our products as medical devices, it can impose extensive
requirements upon us. If we fail to comply with the applicable requirements, the FDA could respond
by imposing fines, injunctions or civil penalties, requiring recalls or product corrections,
suspending production, refusing to grant pre-market clearance of products, withdrawing clearances
and initiating criminal prosecution. Any final FDA policy governing computer products, once
issued, may increase the cost and time to market new or existing products or may prevent us from
marketing our products.

We regularly receive requests for information and occasionally subpoenas from government
authorities. Although we believe that we are in compliance, in all material respects, with
applicable laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that a regulatory agency or tribunal
would not reach a different conclusion concerning the compliance of our operations with applicable
laws and regulations. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain or
renew existing permits, licenses or any other regulatory approvals or obtain without significant
delay future permits, licenses or other approvals needed for the operation of our businesses. Any
noncompliance by us with applicable laws and regulations or the failure to maintain, renew or
obtain necessary permits and licenses could have a material adverse impact on our results of
operations.

Regulations relating to confidentiality of sensitive personal information and to format and data
content standards could depress the demand for our products and impose significant product redesign
costs and unforeseen liabilities on us.





McKESSON CORPORATION

The length of our sales and implementation cycles for our Technology Solutions segment could have a
material adverse impact on our future results of operations.

Many of the solutions offered by our Technology Solutions segment have long sales and
implementation cycles, which could range from a few months to two years or more from initial
contact with the customer to completion of implementation. How and when to implement, replace, or
expand an information system, or modify or add business processes, are major decisions for
healthcare organizations. Many of the solutions we provide typically require significant capital
expenditures and time commitments by the customer. Recent legislation that provides incentives to
purchase health information systems imposes strict conditions on these incentives, including the
requirement that purchased systems must comply with applicable federally-endorsed standards. To
the extent these standards are narrowly construed or delayed in publication, our customers may
delay or cancel their purchase decisions. Any decision by our customers to delay or cancel
implementation could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Furthermore,
delays or failures to meet milestones established in our agreements may result in a breach of
contract, termination of the agreement, damages and/or penalties as well as a reduction in our
margins or a delay in our ability to recognize revenue.

We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings if our goodwill or intangible assets
become impaired.

Our foreign operations may subject us to a number of operating, economic, political and regulatory
risks that may have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.

We have operations based in foreign countries, including Canada, the United Kingdom, other
European countries, Asia Pacific and Israel and we have a large investment in Mexico. In the
future, we look to continue to grow our foreign operations both organically and through
acquisitions and investments; however, increasing our foreign operations carries additional risks.
Operations outside of the United States may be affected by changes in trade protection laws,
policies, measures and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment; unexpected
changes in regulatory requirements for software, social, political, labor or economic conditions in
a specific country or region; import/export regulations in both the United States and foreign
countries and difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations. Political changes and
natural disasters, some of which may be disruptive, can interfere with our supply chain, our
customers and all of our activities in a particular location. Additionally, foreign operations
expose us to foreign currency fluctuations that could adversely impact our results of operations
based on the movements of the applicable foreign currency exchange rates in relation to the U.S.
dollar.

Foreign operations are also subject to risks of violations of laws prohibiting improper
payments and bribery, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar regulations in
foreign jurisdictions. Failure to comply with these laws could subject us to civil and criminal
penalties that could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of
operations.





McKESSON CORPORATION

Tax legislation initiatives or challenges to our tax positions could have a material adverse impact
on our results of operations.

We are a large multinational corporation with operations in the United States and
international jurisdictions. As such, we are subject to the tax laws and regulations of the United
States federal, state and local governments and of many international jurisdictions. From
time-to-time, various legislative initiatives may be proposed that could adversely affect our tax
positions. There can be no assurance that our effective tax rate will not be adversely affected by
these initiatives. In addition, United States federal, state and local, as well as international,
tax laws and regulations are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. Although we
believe that our historical tax positions are sound and consistent with applicable laws,
regulations and existing precedent, there can be no assurance that these tax positions will not be
challenged by relevant tax authorities or that we would be successful in any such challenge.

Our business could be hindered if we are unable to complete and integrate acquisitions
successfully.

An element of our strategy is to identify, pursue and consummate acquisitions that either
expand or complement our business. Integration of acquisitions involves a number of risks
including the diversion of management’s attention to the assimilation of the operations of
businesses we have acquired; difficulties in the integration of operations and systems; the
realization of potential operating synergies; the assimilation and retention of the personnel of
the acquired companies; accounting, regulatory or compliance issues that could arise, including
internal control over financial reporting; challenges in retaining the customers of the combined
businesses and a potential material adverse impact on operating results. In addition, we may
potentially require additional financing in order to fund future acquisitions, which may or may not
be attainable. If we are unable to successfully complete and integrate strategic acquisitions in a
timely manner, our business and our growth strategies could be negatively affected.

Continued volatility and disruption to the global capital and credit markets may adversely affect
our ability to access credit, our cost of credit and the financial soundness of our customers and
suppliers.

Volatility and disruption in the global capital and credit markets, including the bankruptcy
or restructuring of certain financial institutions, reduced lending activity by other financial
institutions, decreased liquidity and increased costs in the commercial paper market and the
reduced market for securitizations, may adversely affect the availability and cost of credit
already arranged and the availability, terms and cost of credit in the future, including any
arrangements to renew or replace our current credit or financing arrangements. Although we believe
that our operating cash flow, financial assets, current access to capital and credit markets,
including our existing credit and sales facilities, will give us the ability to meet our financing
needs for the foreseeable future, there can be no assurance that continued or increased volatility
and disruption in the global capital and credit markets will not impair our liquidity or increase
our costs of borrowing.

Our $1.1 billion accounts receivable sales facility is generally renewed annually and will
expire in mid-May 2010. Although we did not use this facility in 2010, we have historically used
it to fund working capital requirements, as needed. We anticipate renewing this facility before
its expiration. If our use of the current accounts receivable sales facility is characterized as a
secured borrowing rather than a sale for U.S. GAAP purposes under accounting pronouncements that
will become effective for us in 2011, we may be required to consider the funds obtained by us under
this facility and the related liens in the covenant compliance calculations for certain of our
other financing arrangements. Although we believe we will be able to renew this facility, there is
no assurance that we will be able to do so.

Our business could also be negatively impacted if our customers or suppliers experience
disruptions resulting from tighter capital and credit markets or a slowdown in the general economy.
As a result, customers may modify, delay or cancel plans to purchase or implement our products or
services and suppliers may increase their prices, reduce their output or change their terms of
sale. Additionally, if customers’ or suppliers’ operating and financial performance deteriorates
or if they are unable to make scheduled payments or obtain credit, customers may not be able to
pay, or may delay payment of accounts receivable owed to us and suppliers may restrict credit,
impose different payment terms or be unable to make payments due to us for fees, returned products
or incentives. Any inability of customers to pay us for our products and services or any demands
by suppliers for different payment terms may have a material adverse impact on our results of
operations and cash flow.





McKESSON CORPORATION

Changes in accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) or
other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our financial statements.

Our financial statements are subject to the application of U.S. GAAP, which is periodically
revised and/or expanded. Accordingly, from time-to-time we are required to adopt new or revised
accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the FASB and the SEC. It
is possible that future accounting standards we are required to adopt could change the current
accounting treatment that we apply to our consolidated financial statements and that such changes
could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition.



