Item 1A.Risk Factors

The risks described below could have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows.  Although it is not possible to predict or identify all such risks and uncertainties, they may include, but are not limited to, the factors discussed below.  Our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider not to be material.  The reader should not consider this list to be a complete statement of all risks and uncertainties.

Changes in the United States healthcare industry and regulatory environment could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.

Many of our products and services are intended to function within the structure of the healthcare financing and reimbursement system currently being used in the United States.  In recent years, the healthcare industry in the United States has changed significantly in an effort to enhance efficiencies, reduce costs and improve patient outcomes.  These changes have included cuts in Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement levels, changes in the basis for payments, shifting away from fee-for-service and towards value-based payments and risk-sharing models, increases in the use of managed care, consolidation of pharmaceutical and medical-surgical supply distributors and the development of large, sophisticated purchasing groups.  We expect the healthcare industry in the United States to continue to change and for healthcare delivery models to evolve in the future.






Table of ContentsMcKESSON CORPORATION



Changes in the healthcare industry’s or our pharmaceutical suppliers’ pricing, selling, inventory, distribution or supply policies or practices could significantly reduce our revenues and net income.  Due to the diverse range of healthcare supply management and healthcare information technology products and services that we offer, such changes could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, while not affecting some of our competitors who offer a narrower range of products and services.

The majority of our U.S. pharmaceutical distribution business agreements with manufacturers are structured to ensure that we are appropriately and predictably compensated for the services we provide.  However, failure to successfully renew these contracts in a timely and favorable manner could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.  Certain distribution business agreements we entered into with manufacturers continue to have pharmaceutical price inflation as a component of our compensation.  Consequently, our results of operations could be adversely affected if the frequency or magnitude of pharmaceutical price increases declines, which we do not control.  In addition, we distribute generic pharmaceuticals, which can be subject to both price deflation and price inflation.  During 2016, our Distribution Solutions segment experienced weaker generic pharmaceutical pricing trends, which are expected to continue in 2017.  Continued volatility in the availability, pricing trends or reimbursement of these generic drugs, or significant fluctuations in the nature, frequency and magnitude of generic pharmaceutical launches, could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.  Additionally, any future changes in branded and generics drug pricing could be significantly different than our projections.

Generic drug manufacturers are increasingly challenging the validity or enforceability of patents on branded pharmaceutical products.  During the pendency of these legal challenges, a generics manufacturer may begin manufacturing and selling a generic version of the branded product prior to the final resolution of its legal challenge over the branded product’s patent.  To the extent we source, contract manufacture, and distribute such generic products, the brand-name company could assert infringement claims against us.  While we generally obtain indemnification against such claims from generic manufacturers as a condition of distributing their products, there can be no assurances that these rights will be adequate or sufficient to protect us.

The healthcare industry is highly regulated, and further regulation of our distribution businesses and technology products and services could impose increased costs, negatively impact our profit margins and the profit margins of our customers, delay the introduction or implementation of our new products, or otherwise negatively impact our business and expose the Company to litigation and regulatory investigations.

Healthcare Fraud:






Table of ContentsMcKESSON CORPORATION



Reimbursements:

There can be no assurance that the preceding changes would not have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.

Operating, Security and Licensure Standards:We are subject to the operating and security standards of the Drug Enforcement Administration (“DEA”), the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”), various state boards of pharmacy, state health departments, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”), the CMS and other comparable agencies.  Certain of our businesses may be required to register for permits and/or licenses with, and comply with operating and security standards of, the DEA, FDA, HHS, CMS, various state boards of pharmacy, state health departments and/or comparable state agencies as well as foreign agencies and certain accrediting bodies, depending upon the type of operations and location of product development, manufacture, distribution, and sale.  For example, we are required to hold valid DEA and state-level registrations and licenses, meet various security and operating standards and comply with the Controlled Substances Act and its accompanying regulations governing the sale, marketing, packaging, holding, distribution, and disposal of controlled substances.

As part of these operating, security and licensure standards, we regularly receive requests for information and occasionally subpoenas from government authorities.  In some instances, these can lead to monetary penalties and/or license revocation.  In March 2015, we reached an agreement in principle with the DEA and Department of Justice pursuant to which we agreed to pay the sum of $150 million to settle all potential administrative and civil claims relating to investigations about the Company’s suspicious order reporting practices for controlled substances.

Although we have enhanced our procedures to ensure compliance, there can be no assurance that a regulatory agency or tribunal would conclude that our operations are compliant with applicable laws and regulations.  In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain or renew existing permits, licenses or any other regulatory approvals or obtain without significant delay future permits, licenses or other approvals needed for the operation of our businesses.  Any noncompliance by us with applicable laws and regulations or the failure to maintain, renew or obtain necessary permits and licenses could lead to litigation and have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.






Table of ContentsMcKESSON CORPORATION



Pedigree Tracking:There have been increasing efforts by Congress and state and federal agencies, including state boards of pharmacy and departments of health and the FDA, to regulate the pharmaceutical distribution system in order to prevent the introduction of counterfeit, adulterated and/or mislabeled drugs into the pharmaceutical distribution system, otherwise known as pedigree tracking.  In November 2013, Congress passed and the President signed into law the Drug Quality and Security Act (“DQSA”).  The DQSA establishes federal standards requiring supply-chain stakeholders to participate in an electronic, interoperable, lot-level prescription drug track and trace system.  The law also preempts state drug pedigree requirements.  The DSQA also establishes new requirements for drug wholesale distributors and third party logistics providers, including licensing requirements in states that had not previously licensed such entities.

In addition, the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007, which went into effect on October 1, 2007, requires the FDA to establish standards and identify and validate effective technologies for the purpose of securing the pharmaceutical supply chain against counterfeit drugs.  These standards may include track-and-trace or authentication technologies, such as radio frequency identification devices and other similar technologies.  On March 26, 2010, the FDA released the Serialized Numerical Identifier (“SNI”) guidance for manufacturers who serialize pharmaceutical packaging.  We expect to be able to accommodate these SNI regulations in our distribution operations.  The DQSA and other pedigree tracking laws and regulations could increase the overall regulatory burden and costs associated with our pharmaceutical distribution business, and could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.

Privacy:

Healthcare Reform:    The Affordable Care Act significantly expanded health insurance coverage to uninsured Americans and changed the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private payers. While certain provisions of the Affordable Care Act took effect immediately, others have delayed effective dates or require further rulemaking action or regulatory guidance by governmental agencies to implement and/or finalize (e.g. nondiscrimination in health programs and activities, excise tax on high-cost employer-sponsored health coverage).  We do not currently anticipate that the Affordable Care Act or any resulting federal and state healthcare reforms will have a material impact on our financial position and results of operations. However, given the scope of the changes made and under consideration, as well as the uncertainties associated with implementation of healthcare reforms, we cannot predict their full effect on the Company at this time.






Table of ContentsMcKESSON CORPORATION



Interoperability and Meaningful Use Requirement:

Although several of our healthcare information technology products have received certification, rules regarding meaningful use may be changed or supplemented in the future.  As a result of interoperability and meaningful requirements, we may incur increased development costs and delays in receiving certification for our products, and changing or supplementing rules also may lengthen our sales and implementation cycle. We also may incur costs in periods prior to the corresponding recognition of revenue.  To the extent these requirements subsequently are changed or supplemented, or we are delayed in receiving certification for our products, customers may postpone or cancel their decisions to purchase or implement these products.

FDA Regulation of Medical Software:

Standards for Submission of Healthcare Claims






Table of ContentsMcKESSON CORPORATION



Medical Billing and Coding:Medical billing, coding and collection activities are governed by numerous federal and state civil and criminal laws.  In connection with these laws, we may be subjected to federal or state government investigations and possible penalties may be imposed upon us, false claims actions may have to be defended, private payers may file claims against us and we may be excluded from Medicare, Medicaid or other government-funded healthcare programs.  Any such proceeding or investigation could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.

Our foreign operations subject us to a number of operating, economic, political and regulatory risks that may have a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations.

We have operations based in, and we source and contract manufacture pharmaceutical and medical-surgical products in, a number of foreign countries. The Company’s acquisition of Celesio AG (“Celesio”) significantly increases the importance of our foreign operations to our future operations and growth.

Our foreign operations expose us to a number of risks including changes in trade protection laws, policies and measures and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment; changes in licensing regimes for pharmacies; unexpected regulatory, social, political, or economic changes in a specific country or region; changes in intellectual property, privacy and data protection; import/export regulations and trade sanctions in both the United States and foreign countries and difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations.  Political changes, labor strikes, acts of war or terrorism and natural disasters, some of which may be disruptive, can interfere with our supply chain, our customers and all of our activities in a particular location.  We may also be affected by potentially adverse tax consequences and difficulties associated with repatriating cash generated or held abroad.

Foreign operations are also subject to risks of violations of laws prohibiting improper payments and bribery, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and similar regulations in foreign jurisdictions.  The U.K. Bribery Act, for example, prohibits both domestic and international bribery, as well as bribery across both private and public sectors. An organization that fails to prevent bribery committed by anyone associated with the organization can be charged under the U.K. Bribery Act unless the organization can establish the defense of having implemented adequate procedures to prevent bribery.  Failure to comply with these laws could subject us to civil and criminal penalties that could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations.

We also may experience difficulties and delays inherent in sourcing products and contract manufacturing from foreign countries, including but not limited to: (1) difficulties in complying with the requirements of applicable federal, state and local governmental authorities in the United States and of foreign regulatory authorities; (2) inability to increase production capacity commensurate with demand or the failure to predict market demand; (3) other manufacturing or distribution problems including changes in types of products produced, limits to manufacturing capacity due to regulatory requirements, physical limitations, or scarce or inadequate resources that could impact continuous supply; and (4) damage to our reputation due to real or perceived quality issues.  For example, the FDA has conducted investigations and banned certain generics manufacturers from selling certain raw materials and drug ingredients in the U.S. from overseas plants due to quality issues.  Difficulties in manufacturing or access to raw materials could result in production shutdowns, product shortages and other similar delays in product manufacturing that could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations.

Changes in the Canadian healthcare industry and regulatory environment could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.

Provincial governments in Canada provide partial funding for the purchase of pharmaceuticals and independently regulate the sale and reimbursement of drugs.  Provincial governments in Canada have introduced significant changes in recent years in an effort to reduce the costs of publicly funded health programs.  For instance, to reduce the cost for taxpayers, provincial governments have taken steps to reform the rules regarding the sale of generic drugs.  These changes include the significant lowering of prices for generic pharmaceuticals and, in some provinces, changes to the allowable amounts of professional allowances paid to pharmacists by generic manufacturers.  These reforms may adversely affect the distribution of drugs as well as the pricing for prescription drugs for the Company’s operations in Canada.  Other provinces have implemented or are considering similar changes, which would also lower pharmaceutical pricing and service fees.  Individually or in combination, such changes in the Canadian healthcare environment may significantly reduce our Canadian revenue and operating profit.






Table of ContentsMcKESSON CORPORATION



General European economic conditions, together with austerity measures being taken by certain European governments, could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.

The Company’s acquisition of Celesio increased our assets and operations within Europe and, accordingly, our exposure to economic conditions in Europe.  A slowdown within the European economy could affect our business in Europe by reducing the prices our customers may be able or willing to pay for our products and services.  A slowdown may also reduce the demand for our products. Either of these could result in a material adverse impact on our results of operations.

In addition, in many European countries the government provides or subsidizes healthcare to consumers and regulates pharmaceutical prices, patient eligibility, and reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system. In recent years, in response to the recessionary environment and financial crisis in Europe, a number of European governments have announced or implemented austerity measures to reduce healthcare spending and constrain overall government expenditures.  These measures, which include efforts aimed at reforming healthcare coverage and reducing healthcare costs, continue to exert pressure on the pricing of and reimbursement timelines for pharmaceuticals and may cause our customers to purchase fewer of our products and services and reduce the prices they are willing to pay.

Countries with existing healthcare-related austerity measures may impose additional laws, regulations, or requirements on the healthcare industry. In addition, European governments that have not yet imposed healthcare-related austerity measures may impose them in the future. New austerity measures may be similar to or vary from existing austerity measures and could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.

Changes in the European regulatory environment regarding privacy and data protection regulations could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.

Our results of operations, which are stated in U.S. dollars, could be adversely impacted by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.

We conduct our business worldwide in U.S. dollars and the functional currencies of our foreign subsidiaries, including Euro, British pound sterling and Canadian dollar.  Changes in foreign currency exchange rates could have a significant adverse impact on our financial results that are reported in the U.S. dollar.  We are also exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk related to our foreign subsidiaries, including intercompany loans denominated in non-functional currencies.

We may from time to time enter into foreign currency contracts or other derivative instruments intended to hedge a portion of our foreign currency exchange rate risks. Additionally, we may use foreign currency borrowings to hedge some of our foreign currency exchange rate risks. These hedging activities may not completely offset the adverse financial effects of unfavorable movements in foreign currency exchange rates during the time the hedges are in place.






Table of ContentsMcKESSON CORPORATION



Our business could be hindered if we are unable to complete and integrate acquisitions successfully.

An element of our strategy is to identify, pursue and consummate acquisitions that either expand or complement our business.  Integration of acquisitions involves a number of significant risks, including the diversion of management’s attention to the assimilation of the operations of businesses we have acquired; difficulties in the integration of operations and systems; the realization of potential operating synergies; the assimilation and retention of the personnel of the acquired companies; accounting, regulatory or compliance issues that could arise, including internal control over financial reporting; and challenges retaining the customers of the combined businesses.  Further, acquisitions may have a material adverse impact on our operating results if unanticipated expenses or charges to earnings were to occur, including unanticipated depreciation and amortization expenses over the useful lives of certain assets acquired, as well as costs related to potential impairment charges, assumed litigation and unknown liabilities.  In addition, we may potentially require additional financing in order to fund future acquisitions, which may or may not be attainable and is subject to potential volatility in the credit markets.  If we are unable to successfully complete and integrate strategic acquisitions in a timely manner, our business and our growth strategies could be negatively affected.

On February 6, 2014, we completed the acquisition of 77.6% of the then outstanding common shares of Celesio and certain convertible bonds of Celesio.  Upon the acquisition, our ownership of Celesio’s fully diluted shares was 75.6%.  Celesio is an international wholesale and retail company and provider of logistics and services to the pharmaceutical and healthcare sectors.  On December 2, 2014, we obtained the ability to pursue the integration of the two companies upon the effectiveness of the domination and profit and loss transfer agreement (the “Domination Agreement”).

Achieving the anticipated benefits of our acquisition of Celesio is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including foreign exchange fluctuations, challenges of managing new international operations, and whether we can ensure continued performance or market growth of Celesio’s products and services. The integration process is subject to a number of uncertainties and no assurance can be given that the anticipated benefits of the transaction will be realized or, if realized, the timing of its realization. It is possible that the integration process could take longer than anticipated, and could result in the loss of employees, the disruption of each company’s ongoing businesses, processes and systems, or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, practices, policies and compensation arrangements. Any of these events could adversely affect our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Celesio acquisition and which could have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows.

Any significant diversion of management’s attention away from the ongoing businesses, and any difficulties encountered in the acquisition, transition and integration process, could adversely affect our financial results.  Moreover, the failure to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Celesio acquisition could result in increased costs or decreases in the amount of expected revenues, and could adversely affect our future business, financial position and operating results. Events outside of our control, including the market price of Celesio shares that we did not acquire in the acquisition, changes in regulations and laws, as well as economic trends, could also adversely affect our ability to realize the expected benefits from our acquisition of Celesio.

Our business and results of operations could be impacted if we fail to manage and complete divestitures.

We regularly evaluate our portfolio in order to determine whether an asset or business may no longer help us meet our objectives.  For example, during the fourth quarter of 2015, we committed to a plan to sell our Brazilian pharmaceutical distribution business and a small business from our Distribution Solutions segment, as well as a small business from our Technology Solutions segment.  When we decide to sell assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner, which could delay the achievement of our strategic objectives. We may also experience greater dissynergies than expected, and the impact of the divestiture on our revenue growth may be larger than projected.  After reaching an agreement with a buyer, we are subject to satisfaction of pre-closing conditions as well as to necessary regulatory and governmental approvals, which, if not satisfied or obtained, may prevent us from completing the sale. Dispositions may also involve continued financial involvement in the divested business, such as through continuing equity ownership, guarantees, indemnities or other financial obligations.  Under these arrangements, performance by the divested businesses or other conditions outside of our control could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.






Table of ContentsMcKESSON CORPORATION



We are subject to legal and regulatory proceedings that could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations.

From time to time and in the ordinary course of our business, we and certain of our subsidiaries may become involved in various legal and regulatory proceedings involving false claims, healthcare fraud and abuse, antitrust, class actions, commercial, employment, environmental, intellectual property, licensing, tort and other various claims.  All such legal proceedings are inherently unpredictable, and the outcome can result in excessive verdicts and/or injunctive relief that may affect how we operate our business or we may enter into settlements of claims for monetary payments.  In some cases, substantial non-economic remedies or punitive damages may be sought.  For some complaints filed against the Company, we are currently unable to estimate the amount of possible losses that might be incurred should these legal proceedings be resolved against the Company.

The outcome of litigation and other legal matters is always uncertain and outcomes that are not justified by the evidence or existing law can occur.  The Company believes that it has valid defenses to the legal matters pending against it and is defending itself vigorously.  Nevertheless, it is possible that resolution of one or any combination of more than one legal matter could result in a material adverse impact on our financial position or results of operations.

Litigation is costly, time-consuming and disruptive to normal business operations.  The defense of these matters could also result in continued diversion of our management’s time and attention away from business operations, which could also harm our business.  Even if these matters are not resolved against us, the uncertainty and expense associated with unresolved legal proceedings could harm our business and reputation.

Competition and industry consolidation may erode our profit.

Our Distribution Solutions segment faces a highly competitive global environment with strong competition from international, national, regional and local full-line, short-line and specialty distributors, service merchandisers, self-warehousing chain drug stores, manufacturers engaged in direct distribution, third-party logistics companies and large payer organizations.  In addition, this segment faces competition from various other service providers and from pharmaceutical and other healthcare manufacturers as well as other potential customers of the segment, which may from time-to-time decide to develop, for their own internal needs, supply management capabilities that would otherwise be provided by the segment.  In all areas, key competitive factors include price, quality of service, breadth of product lines, innovation and, in some cases, convenience to the customer.

In addition, in recent years, the healthcare industry has been subject to increasing consolidation.  As a result, a small number of very large pharmaceutical suppliers could control a significant share of the market.  Accordingly, we could depend on fewer suppliers for our products and therefore we may be less able to negotiate price terms with suppliers.  Many of our customers, including healthcare organizations that purchase our products and services, have also consolidated to create larger enterprises with greater market power.  If this consolidation trend continues among our customers, suppliers and competitors, it could reduce the number of market participants and give the resulting enterprises greater bargaining power, which may lead to erosion of the prices for our products and services.  It would also increase counter-party credit risk as the number of market participants decreases.  In addition, when our customers combine, they often consolidate infrastructure including IT systems, which in turn may erode the diversity of our customer and revenue base.

Our Technology Solutions segment experiences substantial competition from many companies, including other software services firms, consulting firms, shared service vendors, certain hospitals and hospital groups, payers, care management organizations, hardware vendors and internet-based companies with technology applicable to the healthcare industry.  Competition varies in size from small to large companies, in geographical coverage and in scope and breadth of products and services offered.

These competitive pressures and industry consolidation could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.






Table of ContentsMcKESSON CORPORATION



A material reduction in purchases or the loss of a large customer or group purchasing organization, as well as substantial defaults in payment by a large customer or group purchasing organization, could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations.

In recent years, a significant portion of our revenue growth has been with a limited number of large customers.  During2016, sales to ourtenlargest customers, including group purchasing organizations (“GPOs”) accounted for approximately52.4%of our total consolidated revenues.  Sales to our largest customer, CVS Health (“CVS”), accounted for approximately20.3%of our total consolidated revenues.  At March 31,2016, trade accounts receivable from ourtenlargest customers were approximately32%of total trade accounts receivable.  Accounts receivable fromCVSwere approximately18%of total trade accounts receivable.  As a result, our sales and credit concentration is significant.  We also have agreements with GPOs, each of which functions as a purchasing agent on behalf of member hospitals, pharmacies and other healthcare providers, as well as with government entities and agencies.  A material default in payment, a material reduction in purchases from these or any other large customers, or the loss of a large customer or GPO could have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity.

We generally sell our products and services to customers on credit that is short-term in nature and unsecured.  Any adverse change in general economic conditions can adversely reduce sales to our customers, affect consumer buying practices or cause our customers to delay or be unable to pay accounts receivable owed to us, which may in turn materially reduce our revenue growth and cause a material decrease in our profitability and cash flow.  Further, interest rate fluctuations and changes in capital market conditions may also affect our customers’ ability to obtain credit to finance their business under acceptable terms, which in turn may materially reduce our revenue growth and cause a decrease in our profitability.

Contracts with foreign and domestic government entities and their agencies pose additional risks relating to future funding and compliance.

Contracts with foreign and domestic government entities and their agencies are subject to various uncertainties, restrictions and regulations, including oversight audits by various government authorities.  Government contracts also are exposed to uncertainties associated with funding.  Contracts with the U.S. federal government, for example, are subject to the uncertainties of Congressional funding.  Governments are typically under no obligation to maintain funding at any specific level, and funds for government programs may even be eliminated.  As a result, our government clients may terminate our contracts for convenience or decide not to renew our contracts with little or no prior notice.  The loss of such contracts could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.

In addition, because government contracts are subject to specific procurement regulations and a variety of other socio-economic requirements, we must comply with such requirements.  For example, for contracts with the U.S. federal government, with certain exceptions, we must comply with the Federal Acquisition Regulation, the U.S. False Claims Act, the Procurement Integrity Act, the Buy American Act and the Trade Agreements Act.  We must also comply with various other domestic and foreign government regulations and requirements as well as various statutes related to employment practices, environmental protection, recordkeeping and accounting.  These regulations and requirements affect how we transact business with our clients and, in some instances, impose additional costs on our business operations.  Government contracts also contain terms that expose us to higher levels of risk and potential liability than non-government contracts.

We also are subject to government audits, investigations, and oversight proceedings.  For example, government agencies routinely review and audit government contractors to determine whether contractors are complying with specific contractual or legal requirements.  If we violate these rules or regulations, fail to comply with a contractual or other requirement, or do not satisfy an audit, a variety of penalties can be imposed by a government including monetary damages and criminal and civil penalties.  In addition, any of our government contracts could be terminated or we could be suspended or debarred from all government contract work.  The occurrence of any of these actions could harm our reputation and could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.






Table of ContentsMcKESSON CORPORATION



Our future results could be materially affected by a number of public health issues whether occurring in the United States or abroad.

Public health issues, whether occurring in the United States or abroad, could disrupt our operations, disrupt the operations of suppliers or customers, or have a broader adverse impact on consumer spending and confidence levels that would negatively affect our suppliers and customers.  We have developed contingency plans to address infectious disease scenarios and the potential impact on our operations, and we will continue to update these plans as necessary.  However, there can be no assurance that these plans will be effective in eliminating the negative impact of any such diseases on the Company’s operating results.  We may be required to suspend operations in some or all of our locations, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations.

We rely on sophisticated computer systems to perform our business operations.  Although we and our customers use a variety of security measures to protect our and their computer systems, a failure or compromise of our or our customers’ computer systems from a cyberattack, natural disaster, or malfunction may result in material adverse operational and financial consequences.

Our business relies on the secure electronic transmission, storage, and hosting of sensitive information, including protected health information, financial information and other sensitive information relating to our customers, company and workforce.  We routinely process, store and transmit large amounts of data in our operations, including sensitive personal information, protected health information, financial information, and confidential information relating to our business or third parties. Some of the data that we process, store and transmit may travel outside of the United States.  Additionally, we outsource some important IT functions to external service providers worldwide.

Despite our implementation of a variety of security measures, our and our customers’ computer systems could be subject to cyberattacks and unauthorized access, such as physical and electronic break-ins or unauthorized tampering.  Like other global companies, we and our customers have experienced threats to data and systems, including malware and ransomware attacks, unauthorized access, system failures, and disruptions.

A failure or compromise of our or our customers’ computer systems may jeopardize the confidential, proprietary, and sensitive information processed, stored, and transmitted through such computer systems.  Such an event may result in significant damage to our reputation, financial losses, litigation, increased costs, regulatory penalties, customer attrition, brand impairment, or other business harm.  These risks may increase in the future as we continue to expand our internet and mobile strategies and to build an integrated digital enterprise.

We could experience losses or liability not covered by insurance.

In order to provide prompt and complete service to our major Distribution Solutions segment’s customers, we maintain significant product inventory at certain of our distribution centers.  While we seek to maintain property insurance coverage in amounts sufficient for our business, there can be no assurance that our property insurance will be adequate or available on acceptable terms.  One or more large casualty losses caused by fire, earthquake or other natural disaster in excess of our coverage limits could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.






Table of ContentsMcKESSON CORPORATION



The acquisition of Celesio exposes us to additional risks related to providing pharmacy services.  Pharmacies are exposed to risks inherent in the packaging and distribution of pharmaceuticals and other healthcare products, such as with respect to improper filling of prescriptions, labeling of prescriptions, adequacy of warnings, unintentional distribution of counterfeit drugs and expiration of drugs. Although we maintain liability insurance, the coverage may not be adequate to protect us against future claims.  If our insurance coverage proves to be inadequate or unavailable, or we suffer reputational harm as a result of an error or omission, it could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.

The failure of our healthcare technology businesses to attract and retain customers due to challenges in software product integration or to keep pace with technological advances may significantly reduce our results of operations.

Our healthcare technology businesses, the bulk of which resides in our Technology Solutions segment, deliver enterprise‑wide and single entity clinical, patient care, financial, supply chain and strategic management software solutions to hospitals, physicians, homecare providers, retail and mail order pharmacies and payers.  Challenges integrating software products could impair our ability to attract and retain customers and could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations and a disproportionate impact on the results of operations of our Technology Solutions segment.

Future advances in healthcare information technology could lead to new technologies, products or services that are competitive with the technology products and services offered by our various businesses.  Such technological advances could also lower the cost of such products and services or otherwise result in competitive pricing pressure or render our products obsolete.

The success of our technology businesses will depend, in part, on our ability to be responsive to technological developments, pricing pressures and changing business models.  To remain competitive in the evolving healthcare information technology  marketplace, our technology businesses must also develop new products and services on a timely basis.  The failure to develop competitive products and to introduce new products and services on a timely basis could curtail the ability of our technology businesses to attract and retain customers, and thereby could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.

Proprietary protections may not be adequate, and products may be found to infringe the rights of third parties.

System errors or failures of our products or services to conform to specifications could cause unforeseen liabilities or injury, harm our reputation and have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.

The software and technology services that we sell or operate are complex.  As with complex systems offered by others, our software and technology services may contain errors, especially when first introduced.  For example, our Technology Solutions segment’s systems are intended to provide information to healthcare professionals in the course of delivering patient care.  Therefore, users of our software and technology services have a greater sensitivity to errors than the general market for software products.  If clinicians’ use of our software and technology services leads to faulty clinical decisions or injury to patients, we could be subject to claims or litigation by our customers, clinicians or patients.  In addition, such failures could damage our reputation and could negatively affect future sales.

Failure of a customer’s system to perform in accordance with our documentation could constitute a breach of warranty and could require us to incur additional expense in order to make the system comply with the documentation.  If such failure is not remedied in a timely manner, it could constitute a material breach under a contract, allowing the client to cancel the contract, obtain refunds of amounts previously paid or assert claims for significant damages.






Table of ContentsMcKESSON CORPORATION



Various risks could interrupt customers’ access to their data residing in our service center, exposing us to significant costs.

The length of our sales and implementation cycles for our Technology Solutions segment could have a material adverse impact on our future results of operations.

Many of the solutions offered by our Technology Solutions segment have long sales and implementation cycles, which could range from a few months to two years or more from initial contact with the customer to completion of implementation.  How and when to implement, replace, or expand an information system, or modify or add business processes, are major decisions for healthcare organizations.  Many of the solutions we provide typically require significant capital expenditures and time commitments by the customer.  Any decision by our customers to delay or cancel implementation could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.  Furthermore, delays or failures to meet milestones established in our agreements may result in a breach of contract, termination of the agreement, damages and/or penalties as well as a reduction in our margins or a delay in our ability to recognize revenue.

We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings if our goodwill or intangible assets become impaired.






Table of ContentsMcKESSON CORPORATION



Tax legislation initiatives or challenges to our tax positions could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.

In addition, as jurisdictions enact legislation to implement the recommendations of the recently concluded base erosion and profit shifting project undertaken by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development or as a result of the European Commission’s investigations into illegal state aid,  changes to long-standing tax principles may result which could adversely impact our tax expense.

Volatility and disruption to the global capital and credit markets may adversely affect our ability to access credit, our cost of credit and the financial soundness of our customers and suppliers.

Volatility and disruption in the global capital and credit markets, including the bankruptcy or restructuring of certain financial institutions, reduced lending activity by other financial institutions, decreased liquidity and increased costs in the commercial paper market and the reduced market for securitizations, may adversely affect the availability and cost of credit already arranged and the availability, terms and cost of credit in the future, including any arrangements to renew or replace our current credit or financing arrangements.  Although we believe that our operating cash flow, financial assets, current access to capital and credit markets, including our existing credit and sales facilities, will give us the ability to meet our financing needs for the foreseeable future, there can be no assurance that volatility and disruption in the global capital and credit markets will not impair our liquidity or increase our costs of borrowing.

Our business could also be negatively impacted if our customers or suppliers experience disruptions resulting from tighter capital and credit markets or a slowdown in the general economy.  As a result, customers may modify, delay or cancel plans to purchase or implement our products or services and suppliers may increase their prices, reduce their output or change their terms of sale.  Additionally, if customers’ or suppliers’ operating and financial performance deteriorates or if they are unable to make scheduled payments or obtain credit, customers may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of accounts receivable owed to us and suppliers may restrict credit, impose different payment terms or be unable to make payments due to us for fees, returned products or incentives.  Any inability of customers to pay us for our products and services or any demands by suppliers for different payment terms, may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flow.

Changes in accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our financial statements.

Our financial statements are subject to the application of U.S. GAAP, which is periodically revised and/or expanded.  From time to time, we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the FASB and the SEC.  It is possible that future accounting standards we are required to adopt, such as the amended guidance for revenue recognition, leases, and share based payments, may require changes to the current accounting treatment that we apply to our consolidated financial statements and may require us to make significant changes to our systems.  Such changes could result in a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations.






Table of ContentsMcKESSON CORPORATION



We could face significant liability if we withdraw from participation in one or more multiemployer pension plans in which we participate, or if one or more multiemployer plans in which we participate is reported to have underfunded liabilities.

We participate in various multiemployer pension plans.  In the event that we withdraw from participation in one of these plans, then applicable law could require us to make additional cash contributions to the plans in installments.  Our withdrawal liability for any multiemployer plan would depend on the extent of the plan’s funding of vested benefits.  The multiemployer plans could have significant unfunded vested liabilities. Such underfunding may increase in the event other employers become insolvent or withdraw from the applicable plan or upon the inability or failure of withdrawing employers to pay their withdrawal liability. In addition, such underfunding may increase as a result of lower than expected returns on pension fund assets or other funding deficiencies. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

We may not realize the expected benefits from our restructuring and business process initiatives.

On March 14, 2016, the Company committed to a restructuring plan to lower its operating costs (“Cost Alignment Plan”).  The Cost Alignment Plan primarily consists of a reduction in workforce and business process initiatives that will be substantially implemented prior to the end of 2019.  Expense reduction initiatives could yield unintended consequences such as distraction of our management and employees, business disruption, attrition beyond any planned reduction in workforce, inability to attract or retain key personnel, and reduced employee productivity which could negatively affect our business, sales, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, our restructuring and business process initiatives result in charges and expenses that impact our operating results.  We cannot guarantee that the activities under any restructuring and business initiative will result in the desired efficiencies and estimated cost savings.

We may experience difficulties with outsourcing and similar third party relationships.

Our ability to conduct our business might be negatively impacted if we experience difficulties with outsourcing and managing similar third-party relationships.  We outsource certain business and administrative functions and rely on third parties to perform certain services on our behalf.  If we fail to develop, implement and monitor our outsourcing strategies, such strategies prove to be ineffective or fail to provide expected cost savings, or our third party providers fail to perform as anticipated, we may experience operational difficulties and increased costs may adversely affect the results of our operations.

We may face risks associated with our retail expansion.



In recent years, we have expanded our retail operations through a number of acquisitions. As we expand our retail footprint, we may face risks that are different from those we currently encounter. Our expansion into additional retail markets, such as those in Europe and Canada, could result in increased competitive, merchandising and distribution challenges. We may encounter difficulties in attracting customers to our retail locations due to a lack of customer familiarity with our brands and our lack of familiarity with local customer preferences and seasonal differences in the market.  Our ability to expand successfully will depend on acceptance of our retail store experience by customers, including our ability to design our stores in a manner that resonates locally and to offer the correct product assortment to appeal to consumers. Furthermore, our continued growth in the retail sector may strain relations with certain of our distribution customers who also compete in the retail pharmacy sector. There can be no assurance that our retail locations will be received as well as, or achieve net sales or profitability levels consistent with, our projected targets or be comparable to those of our existing stores in the time periods estimated by us, or at all. If our retail expansion fails to achieve, or unable to sustain, acceptable net sales and profitability levels, our business, results of operations and growth prospects may be materially adversely affected.



Our retail stores may require additional management time and attention. Failure to properly supervise the operation and maintain the consistency of the customer experience in those retail stores could result in loss of customers and potentially adversely affect our results of operations.








Table of ContentsMcKESSON CORPORATION



We may be unable to keep existing retail store locations or open new retail locations in desirable places, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations.



We may be unable to keep existing retail locations or open new retail locations in desirable places in the future. We compete with other retailers and businesses for suitable retail locations. Local land use, local zoning issues, environmental regulations and other regulations may affect our ability to find suitable retail locations and also influence the cost of leasing or buying them. We also may have difficulty negotiating real estate leases for new stores, renewing real estate leases for existing stores or negotiating purchase agreements for new sites on acceptable terms. In addition, construction, environmental, zoning and real estate delays may negatively affect retail location openings and increase costs and capital expenditures. If we are unable to keep up our existing retail store locations or open new retail store locations in desirable places and on favorable terms, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected.



