Item 1A.Risk Factors

The risks described below could have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows.  Although it is not possible to predict or identify all such risks and uncertainties, they may include, but are not limited to, the factors discussed below.  Our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider not to be material.  The reader should not consider this list to be a complete statement of all risks and uncertainties.

Changes in the United States healthcare industry and regulatory environment could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.

Many of our products and services are intended to function within the structure of the healthcare financing and reimbursement system currently being used in the United States.  In recent years, the healthcare industry in the United States has changed significantly in an effort to enhance efficiencies, reduce costs and improve patient outcomes.  These changes have included cuts in Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement levels, changes in the basis for payments, shifting away from fee-for-service and towards value-based payments and risk-sharing models, increases in the use of managed care and consolidation in the healthcare industry.  We expect the healthcare industry in the United States to continue to change and for healthcare delivery models to evolve in the future.

Changes in the healthcare industry’s or our pharmaceutical suppliers’ pricing, selling, inventory, distribution or supply policies or practices could significantly reduce our revenues and net income.  Additionally, if we experience disruptions in our supply of generic drugs, our margins could be adversely affected. Due to the diverse range of healthcare supply management and healthcare information technology products and services that we offer, such changes could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, while not affecting some of our competitors who offer a narrower range of products and services.

Generic drug manufacturers are increasingly challenging the validity or enforceability of patents on branded pharmaceutical products.  During the pendency of these legal challenges, a generics manufacturer may begin manufacturing and selling a generic version of the branded product prior to the final resolution of its legal challenge over the branded product’s patent.  To the extent we source, contract manufacture, and distribute such generic products, the brand-name company could assert infringement claims against us.  While we generally obtain indemnification against such claims from generic manufacturers as a condition of distributing their products, there can be no assurances that these rights will be adequate or sufficient to protect us.

The healthcare industry is highly regulated, and further regulation of our distribution businesses and technology products and services could impose increased costs, negatively impact our profit margins and the profit margins of our customers, delay the introduction or implementation of our new products, or otherwise negatively impact our business and expose the Company to litigation and regulatory investigations.






Table of ContentsMcKESSON CORPORATION



Healthcare Fraud:

qui tam

actions, and could become liable for damages and suffer civil and criminal penalties, including the loss of licenses or our ability to participate in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs.

Reimbursements:Our profit margins and the profit margins of our customers may be adversely affected by laws and regulations reducing reimbursement rates (including government rates) for pharmaceuticals, medical treatments and related services, imposing additional requirements on healthcare entities, or changing the methodology by which reimbursement levels are determined.

For example, on October 25, 2018, the Department of Health & Human Services (“HHS”) announced its intent to propose an International Pricing Index (“IPI”) payment model to reduce government payments for Medicare Part B drugs to levels more closely aligned with prices paid in other countries. If proposed and finalized, the far-reaching model could reduce Part B drug reimbursement by 30 percent between 2020 and 2025. The model would eliminate the “buy and bill” model and reintroduce the Competitive Acquisition Program (“CAP”). This could allow private vendors (including non-wholesaler entities) to procure and distribute drugs to physicians and hospitals, while Medicare would pay the vendor for the included drugs based on the target price driven by the IPI. Also, on January 31, 2019, the HHS Office of Inspector General released the Removal of Safe Harbor Protection for Rebates to Plans or Pharmacy Benefit Managers (“PBM”) Involving Prescription Pharmaceuticals and Creation of New Safe Harbor Protection Proposed Rule. If finalized, the proposal would create significant change in the pharmaceutical value chain as manufacturers, PBM, managed care organizations and other industry stakeholders look to implement new transactional flows and adapt their business models.  Additionally, federal and state lawmakers are increasingly exploring other policy proposals to reduce drug price, including price transparency measurers and drug reimportation.

There can be no assurance that the preceding changes would not have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.

Operating, Security and Licensure Standards:We are subject to the operating and security standards of the Drug Enforcement Administration (“DEA”), the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”), various state boards of pharmacy, state health departments, HHS, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (“CMS”) and other comparable agencies.  Certain of our businesses may be required to register for permits and/or licenses with, and comply with operating and security standards of, the DEA, FDA, HHS, CMS, various state boards of pharmacy, state health departments and/or comparable state agencies as well as foreign agencies and certain accrediting bodies, depending upon the type of operations and location of product development, manufacture, distribution, and sale.  For example, we are required to hold valid DEA and state-level registrations and licenses, meet various security and operating standards and comply with the Controlled Substances Act and its accompanying regulations governing the sale, marketing, packaging, holding, distribution, and disposal of controlled substances.

As part of these operating, security and licensure standards, we regularly receive requests for information and occasionally subpoenas from government authorities.  In some instances, these can lead to monetary penalties and/or license revocation.  In January 2017, we reached an agreement with the DEA and Department of Justice pursuant to which we paid $150 million to settle all potential administrative and civil claims relating to investigations about the Company’s suspicious order reporting practices for controlled substances. The DEA suspended, on a staggered basis for limited periods of time, McKesson’s DEA registrations to distribute certain controlled substances from four McKesson distribution centers. As of March 31, 2019, staggered suspensions have expired for two DEA registrations and two remain applicable.






Table of ContentsMcKESSON CORPORATION



Although we have enhanced our procedures to ensure compliance, there can be no assurance that a regulatory agency or tribunal would conclude that our operations are compliant with applicable laws and regulations.  In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain or renew existing permits, licenses or any other regulatory approvals or obtain without significant delay future permits, licenses or other approvals needed for the operation of our businesses.  Any noncompliance by us with applicable laws and regulations or the failure to maintain, renew or obtain necessary permits and licenses could lead to litigation and have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.

Pedigree Tracking:There have been increasing efforts by Congress and state and federal agencies, including state boards of pharmacy and departments of health and the FDA, to regulate the pharmaceutical distribution system in order to prevent the introduction of counterfeit, adulterated and/or mislabeled drugs into the pharmaceutical distribution system, otherwise known as pedigree tracking.  In November 2013, Congress passed and the President signed into law the Drug Quality and Security Act (“DQSA”).  The DQSA establishes federal standards requiring supply-chain stakeholders to participate in a prescription drug track and trace system.  Track and trace began in 2015 at the lot-level and evolves to a serialized level electronic, interoperable system by November 2023. The law also preempts state drug pedigree requirements.  The DSQA also establishes new requirements for drug wholesale distributors and third-party logistics providers, including licensing requirements in states that had not previously licensed such entities.

In addition, the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 requires the FDA to establish standards and identify and validate effective technologies for the purpose of securing the pharmaceutical supply chain against counterfeit drugs.  These standards may include track and trace or authentication technologies, such as radio frequency identification devices, 2D data matrix barcodes and other similar technologies.  On March 26, 2010, the FDA released the Serialized Numerical Identifier (“SNI”) guidance for manufacturers who serialize pharmaceutical packaging.  We expect to be able to accommodate these SNI regulations in our distribution operations.  The DQSA and other pedigree tracking laws and regulations could increase the overall regulatory burden and costs associated with our pharmaceutical distribution business, and could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.

Privacy:There are numerous federal and state laws and regulations related to the privacy and security of personal information. In particular, regulations promulgated pursuant to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”) establish privacy and security standards that limit the use and disclosure of individually identifiable health information (known as “protected health information”) and require the implementation of administrative, physical and technological safeguards to protect the privacy of protected health information and ensure the confidentiality, integrity and availability of electronic protected health information. We are directly subject to certain provisions of the regulations as a “Business Associate” through our relationships with customers. We are also directly subject to the HIPAA privacy and security regulations as a “Covered Entity” with respect to our operations as a healthcare clearinghouse, specialty pharmacy and medical surgical supply business.

The privacy regulations established under HIPAA also provide patients with rights related to understanding and controlling how their protected health information is used and disclosed. To the extent permitted by applicable privacy regulations and our contracts with our customers, we may use and disclose protected health information to perform our services and for other limited purposes, such as creating de-identified information. Other uses and disclosures, such as marketing communications, require written authorization from the individual or must meet an exception specified under the privacy regulations. Determining whether protected health information has been sufficiently de-identified to comply with the HIPAA privacy standards and our contractual obligations may require complex factual and statistical analyses and may be subject to interpretation.






Table of ContentsMcKESSON CORPORATION



Healthcare Reform:    The Affordable Care Act (“ACA”) significantly expanded health insurance coverage to uninsured Americans and changed the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private payers. While certain provisions of the ACA took effect immediately, others have delayed effective dates or require further rulemaking action or regulatory guidance by governmental agencies to implement and/or finalize (e.g. nondiscrimination in health programs and activities, excise tax on high-cost employer-sponsored health coverage). Further, as a result of the November 2016 U.S. presidential election and the November 2018 midterm election, there are continued uncertainties associated with efforts to change or repeal certain provisions of the ACA as well as moves to achieve universal healthcare coverage. While there is currently a substantial lack of clarity around the likelihood, timing and details of any such policies and reforms, such policies and reforms may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.

Our foreign operations subject us to a number of operating, economic, political and regulatory risks that may have a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations.

We have operations based in, and we source and contract manufacture pharmaceutical and medical-surgical products in, a number of foreign countries. Moreover, in Europe, McKesson Europe AG (“McKesson Europe”), formerly known as Celesio AG, operates as a wholesale and retail company and provider of logistics and services to the pharmaceutical and healthcare sector.

Our foreign operations expose us to a number of risks including changes in trade protection laws, policies and measures and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment; changes in licensing regimes for pharmacies; unexpected regulatory, social, political, or economic changes in a specific country or region such as the reduction of reimbursement rates within the National Health Service in the United Kingdom (“U.K.”); changes in intellectual property, privacy and data protection; import/export regulations and trade sanctions in both the United States and foreign countries and difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations. For example, the Falsified Medicines Directive became operational in most European Union (“EU”) countries on February 9, 2019 and required implementing safety features for medicines, including a unique identifier (a two-dimension barcode) and an anti-tampering device on outer packaging. Political changes, labor strikes, acts of war or terrorism and natural disasters, some of which may be disruptive, can interfere with our supply chain, our customers and all of our activities in a particular location.

In June 2016, voters in the U.K. approved a referendum to withdraw the U.K.'s membership from the EU, commonly referred to as "Brexit". In March 2017, the U.K. government officially gave notice to leave, starting a two-year negotiation process. The resulting Withdrawal Agreement was intended to ensure continuity, as the U.K. could remain a de facto member until the end of 2020, during which time the two sides could negotiate their future political and trade relations. However, the U.K. legislature has declined to ratify the Withdrawal Agreement, and no alternative agreement has been negotiated to govern the withdrawal of the U.K. from the EU. The U.K. and the EU agreed to an extension of the deadline for withdrawal until October 31, 2019, although the U.K. could leave the EU sooner than that date if the Withdrawal Agreement is ratified, or if the parties reach an alternative agreement governing the withdrawal of the U.K. from the EU. If no agreement is reached and the U.K. leaves the EU after the October 31, 2019 deadline, significant trade barriers would exist between the EU and the U.K.

We have operations in the U.K. and the EU, and as a result, we face risks associated with the potential uncertainty and disruptions that may lead up to and follow Brexit, including with respect to volatility in exchange rates and interest rates and potential material changes to the regulatory regime applicable to our operations in the U.K. Brexit could adversely affect European or worldwide political, regulatory, economic or market conditions and could contribute to instability in global political institutions, regulatory agencies and financial markets. For example, depending on the terms of Brexit, the U.K. could also lose access to the single EU market and to the global trade deals negotiated by the EU on behalf of its members. Disruptions and uncertainty caused by Brexit may also cause our clients to closely monitor their costs and reduce their spending budget on our solutions and services. Any of these effects of Brexit, and others we cannot anticipate or that may evolve over time, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.






Table of ContentsMcKESSON CORPORATION



In addition, foreign operations are also subject to risks of violations of laws prohibiting improper payments and bribery, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and similar regulations in foreign jurisdictions.  The U.K. Bribery Act, for example, prohibits both domestic and international bribery, as well as bribery across both private and public sectors. An organization that fails to prevent bribery committed by anyone associated with the organization can be charged under the U.K. Bribery Act unless the organization can establish the defense of having implemented adequate procedures to prevent bribery.  Failure to comply with these laws could subject us to civil and criminal penalties that could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations.

We also may experience difficulties and delays inherent in sourcing products and contract manufacturing from foreign countries, including but not limited to: (1) difficulties in complying with the requirements of applicable federal, state and local governmental authorities in the United States and of foreign regulatory authorities; (2) inability to increase production capacity commensurate with demand or the failure to predict market demand; (3) other manufacturing or distribution problems including changes in types of products produced, limits to manufacturing capacity due to regulatory requirements, physical limitations, or scarce or inadequate resources that could impact continuous supply; and (4) damage to our reputation due to real or perceived quality issues.  For example, the FDA has conducted investigations and banned certain generics manufacturers from selling certain raw materials and drug ingredients in the U.S. from overseas plants due to quality issues.  Difficulties in manufacturing or access to raw materials could result in production shutdowns, product shortages and other similar delays in product manufacturing that could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations.

Changes in the Canadian healthcare industry and regulatory environment could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.

Provincial governments in Canada provide partial funding for the purchase of pharmaceuticals and independently regulate the sale and reimbursement of drugs.  Provincial governments in Canada have introduced significant changes in recent years in an effort to reduce the costs of publicly funded health programs.  For instance, to reduce the cost for taxpayers, provincial governments have taken and will continue to take steps to reform the rules regarding the sale of generic drugs.  These changes include increased powers of investigation, reporting and enforcement for provincial regulatory agencies, the significant lowering of prices for generic pharmaceuticals and, in some provinces, changes to the allowable amounts of professional allowances paid to pharmacists by generic manufacturers and the tendering of generic molecules on provincial drug formularies.  These reforms may adversely affect the distribution of drugs as well as the pricing for prescription drugs for the Company’s operations in Canada.  Additional provinces have implemented or are considering similar changes, which would also lower pharmaceutical pricing and service fees.  Individually or in combination, such changes in the Canadian healthcare environment may significantly reduce our Canadian revenue and operating profit.

General European economic conditions, together with austerity measures being taken by certain European governments, could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.

A slowdown within the European economy could affect our business in Europe by reducing the prices our customers may be able or willing to pay for our products and services.  A slowdown may also reduce the demand for our products. Either of these could result in a material adverse impact on our results of operations.

In addition, in many European countries the government provides or subsidizes healthcare to consumers and regulates pharmaceutical prices, patient eligibility, and reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system. In recent years, in response to the recessionary environment and financial crisis in Europe, a number of European governments, including the government in the U.K. in the past year, have announced or implemented austerity measures to reduce healthcare spending and constrain overall government expenditures.  These measures, which include efforts aimed at reforming healthcare coverage and reducing healthcare costs, continue to exert pressure on the pricing of and reimbursement timelines for pharmaceuticals and may cause our customers to purchase fewer of our products and services and reduce the prices they are willing to pay.

Countries with existing healthcare-related austerity measures may impose additional laws, regulations, or requirements on the healthcare industry. In addition, European governments that have not yet imposed healthcare-related austerity measures may impose them in the future. New austerity measures may be similar to or vary from existing austerity measures and could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.






Table of ContentsMcKESSON CORPORATION



Changes in the foreign regulatory environment regarding privacy and data protection regulations could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.

Our results of operations, which are stated in U.S. dollars, could be adversely impacted by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.

We conduct our business worldwide in U.S. dollars and the functional currencies of our foreign subsidiaries, including Euro, British pound sterling and Canadian dollars.  Changes in foreign currency exchange rates could have a significant adverse impact on our financial results that are reported in U.S. dollars. We are also exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk related to our foreign subsidiaries, including intercompany loans denominated in non-functional currencies.

We may from time to time enter into foreign currency contracts or other derivative instruments intended to hedge a portion of our foreign currency exchange rate risks. Additionally, we may use foreign currency borrowings to hedge some of our foreign currency exchange rate risks. These hedging activities may not completely offset the adverse financial effects of unfavorable movements in foreign currency exchange rates during the time the hedges are in place.

Our business could be hindered if we are unable to complete and integrate acquisitions successfully.

An element of our strategy is to identify, pursue and consummate acquisitions that either expand or complement our business.  Integration of acquisitions involves a number of significant risks, including the diversion of management’s attention to the assimilation of the operations of businesses we have acquired; difficulties in the integration of operations and systems; the realization of potential operating synergies; the assimilation and retention of the personnel of the acquired companies; accounting, regulatory or compliance issues that could arise, including internal control over financial reporting; and challenges retaining the customers of the combined businesses.  Further, acquisitions may have a material adverse impact on our operating results if unanticipated expenses or charges to earnings were to occur, including unanticipated depreciation and amortization expenses over the useful lives of certain assets acquired, as well as costs related to potential impairment charges, assumed litigation and unknown liabilities.  In addition, we may potentially require additional financing in order to fund future acquisitions, which may or may not be attainable and is subject to potential volatility in the credit markets.  If we are unable to successfully complete and integrate strategic acquisitions in a timely manner, our business and our growth strategies could be negatively affected.

Achieving the anticipated benefits of any acquisition is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including foreign exchange fluctuations, challenges of managing new domestic or international operations, and whether we can ensure continued performance or market growth of products and services. The integration process is subject to a number of uncertainties and no assurance can be given that the anticipated benefits of any transaction will be realized or, if realized, the timing of its realization. It is possible that the integration process could take longer than anticipated, and could result in the loss of employees, the disruption of each company’s ongoing businesses, processes and systems, or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, practices, policies and compensation arrangements. Any of these events could adversely affect our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of an acquisition and could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.

Any significant diversion of management’s attention away from the ongoing businesses, and any difficulties encountered in the acquisition, transition and integration process, could adversely affect our financial results.  Moreover, the failure to achieve the anticipated benefits of a transaction could result in increased costs or decreases in the amount of expected revenues, and could adversely affect our future business, financial position and operating results. Events outside of our control, including changes in regulations and laws, as well as economic trends, could also adversely affect our ability to realize the expected benefits from a transaction.






Table of ContentsMcKESSON CORPORATION



Our results of operations could be impacted if our investment in Change Healthcare fails to perform as expected.

On March 1, 2017, McKesson contributed the majority of our Core MTS Business and Change contributed substantially all of its businesses, excluding its pharmacy switch and prescription routing businesses, to form a joint venture, Change Healthcare. The purpose of the transaction was to create a new healthcare information technology company, bringing together the complementary strengths of the contributed assets to provide software and analytics, network solutions and technology-enabled services that will help customers obtain actionable insights, exchange mission-critical information, control costs, optimize revenue opportunities, increase cash flow and effectively navigate the shift to value-based healthcare. Change Healthcare is jointly governed by McKesson and Change. Operating a business under joint governance of unaffiliated, controlling members could lead to conflicts of interest or deadlocks on important and time-sensitive operational, financial or strategic decisions, and will require additional organizational formalities as well as time-consuming procedures for sharing information and making decisions. If we are unable to manage our joint venture relationship and to realize the strategic and financial benefits that we expect, including an initial public offering of Change Healthcare Inc., such inability to manage the relationship or realize benefits may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.

Our business and results of operations could be impacted if we fail to manage and complete divestitures.

We regularly evaluate our portfolio in order to determine whether an asset or business may no longer help us meet our objectives. When we decide to sell assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner, which could delay the achievement of our strategic objectives. We may also experience greater dissynergies than expected, and the impact of the divestiture on our revenue growth may be larger than projected.  After reaching an agreement with a buyer, we are subject to satisfaction of pre-closing conditions as well as to necessary regulatory and governmental approvals, which, if not satisfied or obtained, may prevent us from completing the sale. Dispositions may also involve continued financial involvement in the divested business, such as through continuing equity ownership, guarantees, indemnities or other financial obligations.  Under these arrangements, performance by the divested businesses or other conditions outside of our control could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.

We are subject to legal and regulatory proceedings that could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations.

The outcome of litigation and other legal matters is always uncertain and outcomes that are not justified by the evidence or existing law can occur.  The Company believes that it has valid defenses to the legal matters pending against it and is defending itself vigorously.  Nevertheless, it is possible that resolution of one or any combination of more than one legal matter could result in a material adverse impact on our financial position or results of operations.

Litigation is costly, time-consuming and disruptive to normal business operations.  The defense of these matters could also result in continued diversion of our management’s time and attention away from business operations, which could also harm our business.  Even if these matters are not resolved against us, the uncertainty and expense associated with unresolved legal proceedings could harm our business and reputation.  It is possible that resolution of one or any combination of more than one legal matter could result in a material adverse impact on our financial position or results of operations.






Table of ContentsMcKESSON CORPORATION



Competition and industry consolidation may erode our profit.

Our businesses face a highly competitive global environment with strong competition from international, national, regional and local full-line, short-line and specialty distributors, service merchandisers, self-warehousing chain drug stores, manufacturers engaged in direct distribution, third-party logistics companies and large payer organizations.  In addition, our businesses face competition from various other service providers and from pharmaceutical and other healthcare manufacturers as well as other potential customers, which may from time-to-time decide to develop, for their own internal needs, supply management capabilities that would otherwise be provided by our businesses.  In all areas, key competitive factors include price, quality of service, breadth of product lines, innovation and, in some cases, convenience to the customer.

In addition, in recent years, the healthcare industry has been subject to increasing consolidation.  As a result, a small number of very large pharmaceutical suppliers could control a significant share of the market.  Accordingly, we could depend on fewer suppliers for our products and therefore we may be less able to negotiate price terms with suppliers.  Many of our customers, including healthcare organizations that purchase our products and services, have also consolidated to create larger enterprises with greater market power.  If this consolidation trend continues among our customers, suppliers and competitors, it could reduce the number of market participants and give the resulting enterprises greater bargaining power, which may lead to erosion of the prices for our products and services.  It would also increase counter-party credit risk as the number of market participants decreases.  In addition, when our customers combine, they often consolidate infrastructure including IT systems, which in turn may erode the diversity of our customer and revenue base.

Our McKesson Prescription Technology Solutions business experiences substantial competition from many companies, including other software services firms, consulting firms, shared service vendors, certain hospitals and hospital groups, payers, care management organizations, hardware vendors and internet-based companies with technology applicable to the healthcare industry.  Competition varies in size from small to large companies, in geographical coverage and in scope and breadth of products and services offered.

These competitive pressures and industry consolidation could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.

A material reduction in purchases or the loss of a large customer or group purchasing organization, as well as substantial defaults in payment by a large customer or group purchasing organization, could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations.

In recent years, a significant portion of our revenue growth has been with a limited number of large customers.  During2019, sales to ourtenlargest customers, including group purchasing organizations (“GPOs”) accounted for approximately49.9%of our total consolidated revenues.  Sales to our largest customer, CVS Health (“CVS”), accounted for approximately19.4%of our total consolidated revenues.  At March 31,2019, trade accounts receivable from ourtenlargest customers were approximately31.9%of total trade accounts receivable.  Accounts receivable fromCVSwere approximately18.4%of total trade accounts receivable.  As a result, our sales and credit concentration is significant.  We also have agreements with GPOs, each of which functions as a purchasing agent on behalf of member hospitals, pharmacies and other healthcare providers, as well as with government entities and agencies.  A material default in payment, a material reduction in purchases from these or any other large customers, or the loss of a large customer or GPO could have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity.



We generally sell our products and services to customers on credit that is short-term in nature and unsecured.  Any adverse change in general economic conditions can adversely reduce sales to our customers, affect consumer buying practices or cause our customers to delay or be unable to pay accounts receivable owed to us, which may in turn materially reduce our revenue growth and cause a material decrease in our profitability and cash flow.  Further, interest rate fluctuations and changes in capital market conditions may also affect our customers’ ability to obtain credit to finance their business under acceptable terms, which in turn may materially reduce our revenue growth and cause a decrease in our profitability.






Table of ContentsMcKESSON CORPORATION



Contracts with foreign and domestic government entities and their agencies pose additional risks relating to future funding and compliance.

Contracts with foreign and domestic government entities and their agencies are subject to various uncertainties, restrictions and regulations, including oversight audits by various government authorities.  Government contracts also are exposed to uncertainties associated with funding.  Contracts with the U.S. federal government, for example, are subject to the uncertainties of Congressional funding.  Governments are typically under no obligation to maintain funding at any specific level, and funds for government programs may even be eliminated.  As a result, our government clients may terminate our contracts for convenience or decide not to renew our contracts with little or no prior notice.  The loss of such contracts could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.

In addition, because government contracts are subject to specific procurement regulations and a variety of other socio-economic requirements, we must comply with such requirements.  For example, for contracts with the U.S. federal government, with certain exceptions, we must comply with the Federal Acquisition Regulation, the U.S. False Claims Act, the Procurement Integrity Act, the Buy American Act and the Trade Agreements Act.  We must also comply with various other domestic and foreign government regulations and requirements as well as various statutes related to employment practices, environmental protection, recordkeeping and accounting.  These regulations and requirements affect how we transact business with our clients and, in some instances, impose additional costs on our business operations.  Government contracts also contain terms that expose us to higher levels of risk and potential liability than non-government contracts.

We also are subject to government audits, investigations, and oversight proceedings.  For example, government agencies routinely review and audit government contractors to determine whether contractors are complying with specific contractual or legal requirements.  If we violate these rules or regulations, fail to comply with a contractual or other requirement, or do not satisfy an audit, a variety of penalties can be imposed by a government including monetary damages and criminal and civil penalties.  In addition, any of our government contracts could be terminated or we could be suspended or debarred from all government contract work.  The occurrence of any of these actions could harm our reputation and could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.

Our future results could be materially affected by public health issues whether occurring in the United States or abroad.

Public health issues, whether occurring in the United States or abroad, could disrupt our operations, disrupt the operations of suppliers or customers, or have a broader adverse impact on consumer spending and confidence levels that would negatively affect our suppliers and customers.  We have developed contingency plans to address infectious disease scenarios and the potential impact on our operations, and we will continue to update these plans as necessary.  However, there can be no assurance that these plans will be effective in eliminating the negative impact of any such diseases on the Company’s operating results.  We may be required to suspend operations in some or all of our locations, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations.

We rely on sophisticated computer systems to perform our business operations. Although we, our customers, our strategic partners and our external service providers use a variety of security measures to protect our and their computer systems, a failure or compromise of our, our customers’, our strategic partners’ or our external service providers’ computer systems from a cyberattack, natural disaster, or malfunction may result in material adverse operational and financial consequences.

Our business relies on the secure electronic transmission, storage, and hosting of sensitive information, including protected health information and other types of personal information, confidential financial information, proprietary information, and other sensitive information relating to our customers, company and workforce.  We routinely process, store and transmit large amounts of data in our operations, including sensitive personal information, protected health information, financial information, and confidential information relating to our business or third parties. Additionally, we outsource some important IT functions to external service providers worldwide.

Our industry is subject to various evolving federal, state and international data and security laws and regulations, which impose operational costs to achieve compliance. Any failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in regulatory enforcement activity and the imposition of fines and other costs. In addition, compliance with these requirements could require changes in business practices, complicate our operations, and increase our oversight needs.






Table of ContentsMcKESSON CORPORATION



The constant evolution of cyberattacks has caused us to spend more time and money to deal with increasingly sophisticated attacks.  Despite our implementation of a variety of physical, technical and administrative security measures, our, our customers’ and our external service providers’ computer systems could be subject to cyberattacks and unauthorized access, such as physical and electronic break-ins or unauthorized tampering.  Like other global companies, we and our customers have experienced threats to data and systems, including malware and ransomware attacks, unauthorized access, system failures, user errors and disruptions.

A failure or compromise of our, our customers’, our strategic partners’ or our external service providers’ computer systems may result in business disruption or jeopardize the sensitive information processed, stored, and transmitted through such computer systems.  Such an event may result in significant damage to our reputation, financial losses, litigation, increased costs, regulatory penalties, notification costs, remediation expenses, customer attrition, brand impairment, or other business harm.  These risks may increase in the future as we continue to expand our internet and mobile strategies and to build an integrated digital enterprise.

We could experience losses or liability not covered by insurance.

In order to provide prompt and complete service to our major customers, we maintain significant product inventory at certain of our distribution centers.  While we seek to maintain property insurance coverage in amounts sufficient for our business, there can be no assurance that our property insurance will be adequate or available on acceptable terms.  One or more large casualty losses caused by fire, earthquake or other natural disaster in excess of our coverage limits could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.

Transactions like our acquisitions of McKesson Europe and Rexall Health expose us to additional risks related to providing pharmacy services.  Pharmacies are exposed to risks inherent in the packaging and distribution of pharmaceuticals and other healthcare products, such as with respect to improper filling of prescriptions, labeling of prescriptions, adequacy of warnings, unintentional distribution of counterfeit drugs and expiration of drugs. Although we maintain liability insurance, the coverage may not be adequate to protect us against future claims.  If our insurance coverage proves to be inadequate or unavailable, or we suffer reputational harm as a result of an error or omission, it could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.

Proprietary protections may not be adequate, and products may be found to infringe the rights of third parties.






Table of ContentsMcKESSON CORPORATION



System errors or failures of our products or services to conform to specifications could cause unforeseen liabilities or injury, harm our reputation and have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.

The software and technology services that we sell or operate are complex.  As with complex systems offered by others, our software and technology services may contain errors, especially when first introduced.  For example, some of our systems are intended to provide information to healthcare professionals in the course of delivering patient care.  Therefore, users of our software and technology services have a greater sensitivity to errors than the general market for software products.  If clinicians’ use of our software and technology services leads to faulty clinical decisions or injury to patients, we could be subject to claims or litigation by our customers, clinicians or patients.  In addition, such failures could damage our reputation and could negatively affect future sales.

Failure of a customer’s system to perform in accordance with our documentation could constitute a breach of warranty and could require us to incur additional expense in order to make the system comply with the documentation.  If such failure is not remedied in a timely manner, it could constitute a material breach under a contract, allowing the client to cancel the contract, obtain refunds of amounts previously paid or assert claims for significant damages.

Various risks could interrupt customers’ access to their data residing in our service center, exposing us to significant costs.

We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings if our goodwill, intangible and other long-lived assets, or investments become further impaired.






Table of ContentsMcKESSON CORPORATION



Our investment in Change Healthcare represents the fair value of our 70% equity interest in Change Healthcare. We may experience declines in its fair value. A decline in the fair value of our Change Healthcare investment may require that we review the carrying value for potential impairment, and such review could result in an impairment charge to our consolidated statements of operations.

Tax legislation initiatives or challenges to our tax positions could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.

The tax laws and regulations of the various countries where we have major operations are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations.  For example, we operate in various countries that collect value added taxes (“VAT”).  The determination of the manner in which a VAT applies to our foreign operations is subject to varying interpretations arising from the complex nature of the tax laws and regulations.  Although we believe that our historical tax positions are sound and consistent with applicable laws, regulations and existing precedent, there can be no assurance that these tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that we would be successful in any such challenge.  Even if we are successful in maintaining our positions, we may incur significant expense in defending challenges to our tax positions by tax authorities that could have a material impact on our financial position and results of operations.

In addition, as jurisdictions enact legislation to implement the recommendations of the recently concluded base erosion and profit shifting project undertaken by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development or as a result of the European Commission’s investigations into illegal state aid, changes to long-standing tax principles may result which could adversely impact our tax expense and cash flows.

We are currently subject to tax examinations in various jurisdictions, and these jurisdictions may assess tax liabilities against us. Developments in ongoing examinations could have a material impact on our provision for income taxes and our earnings per share, as well as our cash flows, in the period in which any such adjustments are made, and for prior and subsequent periods. We regularly assess the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our tax reserves. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of any ongoing tax controversy could be materially different from our historical tax accruals.

Volatility and disruption to the global capital and credit markets may adversely affect our ability to access credit, our cost of credit and the financial soundness of our customers and suppliers.

Volatility and disruption in the global capital and credit markets, including the bankruptcy or restructuring of certain financial institutions, reduced lending activity by other financial institutions, or decreased liquidity and increased costs in the commercial paper market, may adversely affect the availability and cost of credit already arranged and the availability, terms and cost of credit in the future.  Although we believe that our operating cash flow, financial assets, current access to capital and credit markets, including our existing credit facilities, will give us the ability to meet our financing needs for the foreseeable future, there can be no assurance that volatility and disruption in the global capital and credit markets will not impair our liquidity or increase our costs of borrowing.






Table of ContentsMcKESSON CORPORATION



Our business could also be negatively impacted if our customers or suppliers experience disruptions resulting from tighter capital and credit markets or a slowdown in the general economy.  As a result, customers may modify, delay or cancel plans to purchase or implement our products or services and suppliers may increase their prices, reduce their output or change their terms of sale.  Additionally, if customers’ or suppliers’ operating and financial performance deteriorates or if they are unable to make scheduled payments or obtain credit, customers may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of accounts receivable owed to us and suppliers may restrict credit, impose different payment terms or be unable to make payments due to us for fees, returned products or incentives.  Any inability of customers to pay us for our products and services or any demands by suppliers for different payment terms, may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flow.

Changes in accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our consolidated financial statements.

Our consolidated financial statements are subject to the application of U.S. GAAP, which is periodically revised and/or expanded.  From time to time, we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the FASB and the SEC.  It is possible that future accounting standards we are required to adopt may require changes to the current accounting treatment that we apply to our consolidated financial statements and may require us to make significant changes to our systems.  Such changes could result in a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations.

We could face significant liability if we withdraw from participation in one or more multiemployer pension plans in which we participate, or if one or more multiemployer plans in which we participate is underfunded.

We participate in various multiemployer pension plans.  In the event that we withdraw from participation in one of these plans, then applicable law could require us to make additional cash contributions to the plans in installments.  Our withdrawal liability for any multiemployer plan would depend on the extent of the plan’s funding of vested benefits.  The multiemployer plans could have significant unfunded vested liabilities. Such underfunding may increase in the event other employers become insolvent or withdraw from the applicable plan or upon the inability or failure of withdrawing employers to pay their withdrawal liability. In addition, such underfunding may increase as a result of lower than expected returns on pension fund assets or other funding deficiencies. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

We may not realize the expected benefits from our restructuring and business process initiatives.

From time to time, the Company may enter into restructuring and business process initiatives.  These types of initiatives could yield unintended consequences such as distraction of our management and employees, business disruption, attrition beyond any planned reduction in workforce, inability to attract or retain key personnel, and reduced employee productivity which could negatively affect our business, sales, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, our restructuring and business process initiatives result in charges and expenses that impact our operating results.  We cannot guarantee that the activities under any restructuring and business initiative will result in the desired efficiencies and estimated cost savings.



We may experience difficulties with outsourcing and similar third-party relationships.

Our ability to conduct our business might be negatively impacted if we experience difficulties with outsourcing and managing similar third-party relationships.  We outsource certain business and administrative functions and rely on third parties to perform certain services on our behalf.  If we fail to develop, implement and monitor our outsourcing strategies, such strategies prove to be ineffective or fail to provide expected cost savings, or our third-party providers fail to perform as anticipated, we may experience operational difficulties and increased costs may adversely affect our results of operations.






Table of ContentsMcKESSON CORPORATION



We may face risks associated with our retail expansion.



In recent years, we have expanded our retail operations through a number of acquisitions. As we expand our retail footprint, we may face risks that are different from those we currently encounter. Our expansion into additional retail markets, such as those in Europe and Canada, could result in increased competitive, merchandising and distribution challenges. We may encounter difficulties in attracting customers to our retail locations due to a lack of customer familiarity with our brands and our lack of familiarity with local customer preferences and seasonal differences in the market.  Our ability to expand successfully will depend on acceptance of our retail store experience by customers, including our ability to design our stores in a manner that resonates locally and to offer the correct product assortment to appeal to consumers. Furthermore, our continued growth in the retail sector may strain relations with certain of our distribution customers who also compete in the retail pharmacy sector. There can be no assurance that our retail locations will be received as well as, or achieve net sales or profitability levels consistent with, our projected targets or be comparable to those of our existing stores in the time periods estimated by us, or at all. If our retail expansion fails to achieve, or is unable to sustain, acceptable net sales and profitability levels, our business, results of operations and growth prospects may be materially adversely affected.



Our retail stores may require additional management time and attention. Failure to properly supervise the operation and maintain the consistency of the customer experience in those retail stores could result in loss of customers and potentially adversely affect our results of operations.



We may be unable to keep existing retail store locations or open new retail locations in desirable places, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations.



We may be unable to keep existing retail locations or open new retail locations in desirable places in the future. We compete with other retailers and businesses for suitable retail locations. Local land use, local zoning issues, environmental regulations and other regulations may affect our ability to find suitable retail locations and also influence the cost of leasing or buying them. We also may have difficulty negotiating real estate leases for new stores, renewing real estate leases for existing stores or negotiating purchase agreements for new sites on acceptable terms. In addition, construction, environmental, zoning and real estate delays may negatively affect retail location openings and increase costs and capital expenditures. If we are unable to keep up our existing retail store locations or open new retail store locations in desirable places and on favorable terms, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected.



