Item 1A.Risk Factors

The discussion below identifies certain representative risks that might cause our actual business results to materially differ from our estimates. It is not practical to identify or describe all risks and uncertainties that might materially impact our business operations, reputation, financial position or results of operations. Our business could be materially affected by risks that we have not yet identified or that we currently consider to be immaterial. This is not a complete statement of all potential risks and uncertainties.

Litigation and Regulatory Risks

We experience costly and disruptive legal disputes.

We are routinely named as a defendant in litigation or regulatory proceedings and other legal disputes, which may include asserted class action litigation, such as those described in FinancialNote 21, “Commitments and Contingent Liabilities,” to the consolidated financial statements in this report. Regulatory proceedings might involve allegations such as false claims, healthcare fraud and abuse, and antitrust violations. Civil litigation proceedings might involve commercial, employment, environmental, intellectual property, tort and other claims. Despite valid defenses that we assert, legal disputes are often costly, time-consuming, distracting to management and disruptive to normal business operations. The outcome of legal disputes is difficult to predict. Outcomes can occur that are not justified by the evidence or existing law. The uncertainty and expense associated with unresolved legal disputes might harm our business and reputation even if the matter is favorably resolved. Accordingly, any legal dispute might have a materially adverse impact on our reputation, our business operations and our financial position or results of operations.

We might experience losses not covered by insurance.

Our business exposes us to risks that are inherent in the distribution, manufacturing, dispensing and administration of pharmaceuticals and medical-surgical supplies, the provision of ancillary services, the conduct of our payer businesses and the provision of products that assist clinical decision-making and relate to patient medical histories and treatment plans. For example, pharmacy operations are exposed to risks such as improper filling of prescriptions, mislabeling of prescriptions, inadequacy of warnings, unintentional distribution of counterfeit drugs and expiration of drugs. Although we seek to maintain adequate insurance coverage, such as property insurance for inventory and professional and general liability insurance, coverages on acceptable terms might be unavailable, or coverages might not cover our losses. We generally seek to limit our contractual exposure, but limitations of liability or indemnity provisions in our contracts may not be enforceable or adequately protect us from liability. Uninsured losses might have a materially adverse impact on our business operations and our financial position or results of operations.

We experience costly legal disputes, government actions and adverse publicity regarding our role in distributing controlled substances such as opioids.

The Company is a defendant in over 3,000 cases alleging claims related to the distribution of controlled substances (opioids), as described in FinancialNote 21, “Commitments and Contingent Liabilities,” to the consolidated financial statements in this report. We regularly are named as a defendant in similar, new cases. The plaintiffs in those cases include governmental entities (such as states, provinces, counties and municipalities) as well as businesses, groups and individuals. The cases allege violations of controlled substance laws and other laws, and they make common law claims such as negligence and public nuisance. Many of these cases raise novel theories of liability. Any proceedings can have unexpected outcomes that are not justified by evidence or existing law. All proceedings involve significant expense, management time and distraction, and risk of loss that can be difficult to predict or quantify. It is not uncommon for claims to be resolved over many years. Proceedings can result in monetary damages, penalties and fines, and injunctive or other relief. Although the Company has valid defenses and is vigorously defending itself, some proceedings are resolved by negotiated outcome. Our reputation is impacted by publicity regarding the impacts of opioid use. The adverse outcome of legal proceedings might have a materially adverse impact on our business operations and our financial position or results of operations.

We might experience increased costs to distribute controlled substances such as opioids.

Legislative, regulatory or industry measures related to the distribution of controlled substances such as prescription opioids could affect our business in ways that we may not be able to predict. For example, some states have passed legislation that could require us to pay taxes or assessments on the distribution of opioid medications in those states and other states have considered similar legislation. Liabilities for taxes or assessments or other costs of compliance under any such laws might have a materially adverse impact on our business operations and our financial position or results of operations.






Table of ContentsMcKESSON CORPORATION



We are subject to extensive, complex and challenging healthcare and other laws.

Our industry is highly regulated, and further regulation of our distribution businesses and technology products and services could impose increased costs, negatively impact our profit margins and the profit margins of our customers, delay the introduction or implementation of our new products, or otherwise negatively impact our business and expose the Company to litigation and regulatory investigations. For example, we are subject to many environmental and hazardous materials regulations, including those relating to radiation-emitting equipment operated at U.S. Oncology Network practices. Any noncompliance by us with applicable laws or the failure to maintain, renew or obtain necessary permits and licenses could lead to litigation and might have a materially adverse impact on our business operations and our financial position or results of operations.

We are subject to extensive and frequently changing local, state and federal laws and regulations relating to healthcare fraud, waste and abuse.



We might lose our ability to purchase, compound, store or distribute pharmaceuticals and controlled substances.

Pedigree tracking laws increase our compliance burden and our pharmaceutical distribution costs.

There have been increasing efforts by governments to regulate the pharmaceutical distribution system in order to prevent the introduction of counterfeit, adulterated and/or mislabeled drugs into the pharmaceutical distribution system, otherwise known as pedigree tracking. For example, the U.S. Drug Quality and Security Act of 2013 (“DQSA”) requires us to participate in a federal prescription drug track and trace system that preempts state drug pedigree requirements, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 requires the FDA to establish standards and identify and validate effective technologies, such as track and trace or authentication technologies, to secure the pharmaceutical supply chain against counterfeit drugs. We also have record-keeping and other obligations under the E.U. Falsified Medicines Directive. Pedigree tracking laws such as these increase our compliance burden and our pharmaceutical distribution costs, and they might have a materially adverse impact on our business operations and our financial position or results of operations.






Table of ContentsMcKESSON CORPORATION



Privacy and data protection laws increase our compliance burden.

Anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws increase our compliance burden.

We are subject to laws prohibiting improper payments and bribery, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and similar regulations in foreign jurisdictions. The U.K. Bribery Act, for example, prohibits both domestic and international bribery, as well as bribery across both private and public sectors. An organization that fails to prevent bribery committed by anyone associated with the organization can be charged under the U.K. Bribery Act unless the organization can establish the defense of having implemented adequate procedures to prevent bribery. Our failure to comply with these laws might subject us to civil and criminal penalties that might have a materially adverse impact on our business operations and our financial position or results of operations.

Company and Operational Risks

We might record significant charges from impairment to goodwill, intangibles and other assets or investments.






Table of ContentsMcKESSON CORPORATION



We experience cybersecurity incidents and might experience significant computer system compromises or data breaches.

We and our external service providers use sophisticated computer systems to perform our business operations, such as the secure electronic transmission, processing, storage and hosting of sensitive information, including protected health information and other types of personal information, confidential financial information, proprietary information, and other sensitive information relating to our customers, company and workforce. Many of these systems have experienced and are subject to cybersecurity incidents, despite physical, technical and administrative security measures. Cyber incidents include actual or attempted unauthorized access, tampering, malware insertion, ransomware attacks or other system integrity events. The risk of cyber incidents may be increased while many of our personnel are working remotely due to the COVID-19 pandemic. A cybersecurity incident might involve a material data breach or other material impact to the integrity and operations of these computer systems, which might result in litigation or regulatory action, loss of customers or revenue, increased expense, any of which might have a materially adverse impact on our business operations, reputation and our financial position or results of operations.

We might experience significant problems with information systems or networks.

We rely on sophisticated information systems and networks to perform our business operations, such as to obtain, rapidly process, analyze and manage data that facilitate the purchase and distribution of thousands of inventory items from distribution centers. Our dependence on network availability is increased while many of our personnel are working remotely due to the COVID-19 pandemic. If those information systems are unsuccessfully implemented, fail, suffer errors or interruptions, or become unavailable, it might have a materially adverse impact on our business operations and our financial position or results of operations.

Our products or services might not conform to specifications or perform as we intend.

We sell and provide services involving complex software and technology that may contain errors, especially when first introduced to market. Healthcare professionals delivering patient care tend to have heightened sensitivity to system and software errors. If our software and technology services are alleged to have contributed to faulty clinical decisions or injury to patients, we might be subject to claims or litigation by users of or software or services or their patients. Errors or failures might damage our reputation and negatively affect future sales. A failure of a system or software to conform to specifications might constitute a breach of warranty that could result in repair costs, contract termination, refunds of amounts previously paid or claims for damages. Any of these types of errors or failures might have a materially adverse impact on our business operations and our financial position or results of operations.

We might be impeded in providing customers online services and data access.

We provide remote services that involve hosting customer data and operating software on our own or third party systems. Our customers rely on their ability to access the systems and their data as needed. The networks and hosting systems are vulnerable to interruption or damage from sources beyond our control, such as power loss, telecommunications failures, fire, natural disasters, software and hardware failures and cyberattacks. If the timely delivery of medical care or other customer business requirements are impaired by data access, network or systems problems, we could be exposed to significant claims and reputational harm. Any such problems might have a materially adverse impact on our business operations and our financial position or results of operations.

We might not realize expected benefits from business process initiatives.

We may implement restructuring, cost reduction or other business process initiatives that might result in extraordinary charges and expenses, failures to achieve our desired objectives, or unintended consequences such as distraction of our management and employees, business disruption, attrition beyond any planned reduction in workforce, inability to attract or retain key personnel and reduced employee productivity. Any of these risks might have a materially adverse impact on our business operations and our financial position or results of operations.






Table of ContentsMcKESSON CORPORATION



We might be unable to successfully complete or integrate acquisitions or other business combinations.

Our growth strategy includes consummating acquisitions or other business combinations that either expand or complement our business. To fund acquisitions, we may require financing that may not be available on acceptable terms. We may not receive regulatory approvals needed to complete proposed transactions, or such approvals may be subject to delays or conditions that reduce transaction benefits. Achieving the desired outcomes of business combinations involves significant risks including: diverting management’s attention from other business operations; challenges with assimilating the acquired businesses, such as integration of operations and systems; failure or delay in realizing operating synergies; difficulty retaining key acquired company personnel; unanticipated accounting or financial systems issues with the acquired business, which might affect our internal controls over financial reporting; unanticipated compliance issues in the acquired business; challenges retaining customers of the acquired business; unanticipated expenses or charges to earnings, including depreciation and amortization or potential impairment charges; and risks of known and unknown assumed liabilities in the acquired business. Any of these risks could adversely affect our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of an acquisition and might have a materially adverse impact on our business operations and our financial position or results of operations.

We might be adversely impacted by delays or other difficulties with divestitures.

When we decide to sell assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or exit strategies on acceptable terms or in a timely manner, which could delay the achievement of our strategic objectives. After the disposition, we might experience greater dissynergies than expected, and the impact of the divestiture on our revenue or profit might be larger than we expected. We might have difficulties with pre-closing conditions such as regulatory and governmental approvals, which could delay or prevent the divestiture. We might have financial exposure in a divested business, such as through minority equity ownership, financial or performance guarantees, indemnities or other obligations, such that conditions outside of our control might negate the expected benefits of the disposition. Any of these risks could adversely affect our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of a divestiture and might have a materially adverse impact on our business operations and our financial position or results of operations.

We might not realize the expected tax treatment from our split-off of Change Healthcare.

We might be adversely impacted by outsourcing or similar third-party relationships.

We rely on third parties to perform certain business and administrative functions for us. We might not adequately develop, implement and monitor these outsourced service providers, and we might not realize expected cost savings or other benefits. Third-party services providers might fail to perform as anticipated, or we might experience unanticipated operational difficulties, compliance requirements or increased costs related to outsourced services. For example, our ability to use outsourcing resources in certain jurisdictions might be limited by legislative action or customer contracts, with the result that the work must be performed at greater expense or we may be subject to sanctions for non-compliance. Any of these risks might have a materially adverse impact on our business operations and our financial position or results of operations.






Table of ContentsMcKESSON CORPORATION



We may be unsuccessful in retail pharmacy operations or maintaining profitability.

Our business strategy included expanding our retail pharmacy operations. Our retail pharmacy operations involve numerous risks, such as the following ones. We might encounter difficulties attracting and retaining customers to our retail locations due to their unfamiliarity with our brands or our inexperience with local market preferences. Competition from our retail pharmacy operations might strain relationships with our retail pharmacy customers. Consolidation of retail pharmacies with third party payers, expansion of large retail pharmacy networks, reductions in reimbursement rates, shifts in the mix of branded and generic pharmaceutical sales, and exclusion from preferred pharmacy networks can impair our retail pharmacy sales and profitability. Failure to maintain profitable retail pharmacy operations may result in significant costs, including those associated with site closures and reductions in workforce. If our retail pharmacy operations fail to achieve, or are unable to sustain, acceptable net sales and profitability levels, it might have a materially adverse impact on our business operations and our financial position or results of operations.

We might be harmed by large customer purchase reductions, payment defaults or contract non-renewal.

We derive a significant portion of our revenue from, and have a significant portion of our accounts receivable with, a small number of customers. At March 31, 2020, sales to our largest customer represented approximately20%of our consolidated revenues and approximately20%of our trade receivables, and those of our ten largest customers combined accounted for approximately51%of our consolidated revenues and approximately37%of our trade receivables. A material default in payment, reduction in purchases, or the loss of business from a large customer might have a materially adverse impact on our business operations and our financial position or results of operations.

Our contracts with government entities involve future funding and compliance risks.

We might be harmed by changes in our relationships or contracts with suppliers.

We attempt to structure our pharmaceutical distribution agreements with manufacturers to ensure that we are appropriately and predictably compensated for the services we provide. Certain distribution agreements with manufacturers include pharmaceutical price inflation as a component of our compensation, and we cannot control the frequency or magnitude of pharmaceutical price changes. We might be unable to renew pharmaceutical distribution agreements with manufacturers in a timely and favorable manner. Any of these risks might have a materially adverse impact on our business operations and our financial position or results of operations.






Table of ContentsMcKESSON CORPORATION



We might infringe intellectual property rights or our intellectual property protections might be inadequate.

We believe that our products and services do not infringe the proprietary rights of third parties, but third parties have asserted infringement claims against us and may do so in the future. If a court were to hold that we infringed other’s rights, we might be required to pay substantial damages, develop non-infringing products or services, obtain a license, stop selling or using the infringing products or services, or incur other sanctions. We rely on trade secret, patent, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure obligations and other contractual provisions and technical measures to protect our proprietary rights in our products and solutions. We might initiate costly and time-consuming litigation to protect our trade secrets, to enforce our patent, copyright and trademark rights and to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Our intellectual property protection efforts might be inadequate to protect our rights. Our competitors might develop non-infringing products or services equivalent or superior to ours. Any of these risks might have a materially adverse impact on our business operations and our financial position or results of operations.

We might be unable to successfully recruit and retain qualified employees.

Our ability to attract, engage, develop and retain qualified and experienced employees, including key executives and other talent, is essential for us to meet our objectives. We compete with many other businesses to attract and retain employees. Competition among potential employers might result in increased salaries, benefits or other employee-related costs, or in our failure to recruit and retain employees. We may experience sudden loss of key personnel due to a variety of causes, such as illness, and must adequately plan for succession of key management roles. Employees might not successfully transition into new roles. Any of these risks might have a materially adverse impact on our business operations and our financial position or results of operations.

Industry and Economic Risks

We might be adversely impacted by healthcare reform such as changes in pricing and reimbursement models.

Many of our products and services are designed and intended to function within the structure of current healthcare financing and reimbursement systems. The healthcare industry and related government programs are changing significantly as they seek to increase efficiencies, reduce costs and improve patient outcomes. These changes increase our risks and create uncertainties for our business.

For example, reimbursement methodologies (including government rates) for pharmaceuticals, medical treatments and related services reduce profit margins for us and our customers and impose new legal requirements on healthcare providers. Changes have included cuts in Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement levels, changes in the basis for payments, shifting away from fee-for-service and towards value-based payments and risk-sharing models, and increases in the use of managed care.

In the U.S., the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (“ACA”) significantly expanded health insurance coverage to uninsured Americans and changed the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private payers. There are continued efforts to challenge the ACA. There are also efforts to broaden healthcare coverage. U.S. lawmakers also have explored proposals to reduce drug prices, including requiring price transparency and drug importation measures. These proposals might result in significant changes in the pharmaceutical value chain as manufacturers, PBM, managed care organizations and other industry stakeholders look to implement new transactional flows and adapt their business models.

Provincial governments in Canada that provide partial funding for the purchase of pharmaceuticals and independently regulate the sale and reimbursement of drugs have sought to reduce the costs of publicly funded health programs. For example, provincial governments have taken steps to reduce consumer prices for generic pharmaceuticals and, in some provinces, change professional allowances paid to pharmacists by generic manufacturers.

Many European governments provide or subsidize healthcare to consumers and regulate pharmaceutical prices, patient eligibility and reimbursement levels in order to control government healthcare system costs. Some European governments have implemented or are considering austerity measures to reduce healthcare spending. These measures exert pressure on the pricing and reimbursement timelines for pharmaceuticals and may cause our customers to purchase fewer of our products and services or influence us to reduce prices.

Although there is substantial uncertainty about the likelihood, timing and results of these health reform efforts, their implementation might have a materially adverse impact on our business operations and our financial position or results of operations.






Table of ContentsMcKESSON CORPORATION



We might be adversely impacted by competition and industry consolidation.

We might be adversely impacted by changes or disruptions in product supply.

Our supply arrangements might be interrupted or adversely affected by a variety of causes over which we have no control, such as export controls or trade sanctions, labor disputes, unavailability of key manufacturing sites, inability to procure raw materials, quality control concerns, ethical sourcing issues, supplier’s financial distress, natural disasters, civil unrest or acts of war. Our inventory might be requisitioned, diverted or allocated by government order such as under emergency, disaster and civil defense declarations. For example, government actions in response to the COVID-19 pandemic affect our supply allocation, and those and our own allocation decisions can impact our customer relationships. Changes in the healthcare industry’s or our suppliers’ pricing, selling, inventory, distribution or supply policies or practices could significantly reduce our revenues and net income. We might experience disruptions in our supply of higher margin pharmaceuticals, including generic pharmaceuticals. Any of these changes or disruptions might have a materially adverse impact on our business operations and our financial position or results of operations.

We might be adversely impacted as a result of our distribution of generic pharmaceuticals.

Our generic pharmaceuticals distribution business is subject to pricing risks. We might be adversely impacted if our ClarusONE generic pharmaceutical sourcing joint venture with Walmart, Inc. is unsuccessful or experiences margins declines. Generic drug manufacturers often offer a generic version of branded pharmaceuticals while they challenge the validity or enforceability branded pharmaceutical patents. The patent holder might assert infringement claims against us for distributing those generic versions and the generic drug manufactures may not fully indemnify us against such claims. These risks, as well as changes in the availability, pricing volatility, reimbursement rates for generic drugs, or significant changes in the nature, frequency or magnitude of generic pharmaceutical launches, might have a materially adverse impact on our business operations and our financial position or results of operations.

We might be adversely impacted by an economic slowdown or recession.

An economic slowdown or recession affecting our businesses in one or more regions could reduce the prices our customers are able or willing to pay for our products and services and the volume of their purchases. This risk is increased by the COVID-19 pandemic. Any economic slowdown or recession might have a materially adverse impact on our business operations and our financial position or results of operations.






Table of ContentsMcKESSON CORPORATION



Disruption or other changes in capital and credit markets might impede access to credit and increase borrowing costs for us and our customers and suppliers and might impair the financial soundness of our customers and suppliers.

Volatility and disruption in global capital and credit markets, including the bankruptcy or restructuring of certain financial institutions, reduced lending activity by financial institutions, or decreased liquidity and increased costs in the commercial paper market, might adversely affect our borrowing ability and cost of borrowing. We generally sell our products and services under short-term unsecured credit arrangements. An adverse change in general economic conditions or access to capital might cause our customers to reduce their purchases from us, or delay or fail paying amounts owed to us. Suppliers might increase their prices, reduce their output or change their terms of sale due to limited availability of credit. Suppliers might be unable to make payments due to us for fees, returned products or incentives. These risks are increased by the COVID-19 pandemic. Interest rate increases or changes in capital market conditions might impede our or our customers’ or suppliers’ ability or cost to obtain credit. For example, interest rate costs on types of borrowings that have historically been linked to the London Inter-Bank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) may increase when LIBOR is replaced by reference rates such as the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (“SOFR”). Any of these risks might have a material adverse impact on our business operations and our financial position or results of operations.

We may have difficulties in sourcing or selling products due to a variety of causes.

We might experience difficulties and delays in sourcing and selling products due to a variety of causes, such as: difficulties in complying with the legal requirements for export or import of pharmaceuticals or components; suppliers’ failure to satisfy production demand; manufacturing or supply problems such as inadequate resources; and real or perceived quality issues. Difficulties in product manufacturing or access to raw materials could result in supplier production shutdowns, product shortages and other supply disruptions. The FDA banned certain manufacturers from selling raw materials and drug ingredients in the U.S. due to quality issues. The COVID-19 pandemic adversely affects the availability of some products, resulting in product allocation and delivery delays. Any of these risks might have a materially adverse impact on our business operations and our financial position or results of operations.

We might be adversely impacted by tax legislation or challenges to our tax positions.

We are subject to the tax laws in the United States at the federal, state and local government levels and to the tax laws of many other jurisdictions in which we operate or sell products or services. Tax laws might change in ways that adversely affect our tax positions, effective tax rate and cash flow. The tax laws are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. We are subject to tax examinations in various jurisdictions that might assess additional tax liabilities against us. Our tax reporting positions might be challenged by relevant tax authorities, we might incur significant expense in our efforts to defend those challenges, and we might be unsuccessful those efforts. Developments in examinations and challenges might materially change our provision for taxes in the affected periods and might differ materially from our historical tax accruals. Any of these risks might have a materially adverse impact on our business operations, our cash flows and our financial position or results of operations

We might be adversely impacted by the Brexit withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union.

We have operations in the U.K. and the European Union (“E.U.”) and face risks associated with the uncertainty and potential disruptions that might follow the United Kingdom withdrawing from the European Union (“Brexit”). Brexit could adversely affect political, regulatory, economic or market conditions and contribute to instability in global political institutions, regulatory agencies and financial markets. For example, we might experience volatility in exchange rates and interest rates and changes in laws regulating our U.K. operations. Customers might reduce purchases due to the uncertainty caused by Brexit. Any of these risks might have a materially adverse impact on our business operations and our financial position or results of operations.

We might be adversely impacted by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.

We conduct our business in various currencies, including the U.S. dollar, euro, British pound sterling and Canadian dollar. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates could reduce our revenues, increase our costs or otherwise adversely affect our financial results reported in U.S. dollars. For example, we are exposed to transactional currency exchange risk due to our import and export of products that are purchased or sold in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. We also have currency exchange risk due to intercompany loans denominated in various currencies. The COVID-19 pandemic has affected and might increase currency exchange rate volatility. We may from time to time enter into foreign currency contracts, foreign currency borrowings or other techniques intended to hedge a portion of our foreign currency exchange rate risks. These hedging activities may not completely offset the adverse financial effects of unfavorable movements in foreign currency exchange rates during the time the hedges are in place. Any of these risks might have a materially adverse impact on our business operations and our financial position or results of operations.






Table of ContentsMcKESSON CORPORATION



Other Risks

We might be adversely impacted by events outside of our control, such as widespread public health issues, natural disasters, political events and other catastrophic events.

We might be adversely impacted by changes in accounting standards.

Our consolidated financial statements are subject to the application of U.S. GAAP, which periodically is revised or reinterpreted. From time to time, we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) and the SEC. It is possible that future accounting standards may require changes to the accounting treatment in our consolidated financial statements and may require us to make significant changes to our financial systems. Such changes might have a materially adverse impact on our financial position or results of operations.



