ITEM 1 BUSINESS

SUMMARY

Vulcan Materials Company is
a New Jersey corporation and the nation’s largest producer of construction aggregates: primarily crushed stone, sand, and gravel. We have 323 active aggregates facilities. We also are a major producer of asphalt mix and ready-mixed concrete as
well as a leading producer of cement in Florida.

STRATEGY FOR EXISTING AND NEW MARKETS

§

Our reserves are strategically located throughout the United States in high growth areas that will require large amounts of aggregates to meet construction demand.
Vulcan-served states are estimated to have 75% of the total growth in the U.S. population and 72% of the total growth in U.S. household formations between 2010 and 2020. Our top ten revenue producing states in 2011 were California, Virginia, Texas,
Florida, Georgia, Tennessee, Illinois, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Alabama

.

U.S. DEMOGRAPHIC GROWTH 2010 TO
2020, TOP 10 BY STATE

Note: Vulcan-served states shown in bolded, blue text.

Source: Moody’s Analytics as of December 15, 2011

§

We have pursued a strategy of increasing our presence in metropolitan areas that are expected to grow most rapidly.

§

We typically operate in locations close to our local markets because the cost of trucking materials long distances is prohibitive. Approximately 80% of our total
aggregates shipments are delivered exclusively by truck, and another 13% are delivered by truck after reaching a sales yard by rail or water.

Part I



MAJOR ACQUISITIONS

§

Since becoming a public company in 1956, Vulcan has principally grown by mergers and acquisitions. Since 1991 we have acquired over 280 aggregates operations, including
many small bolt-on operations and several large acquisitions.

COMPETITORS

We operate in an industry that is very fragmented with a large number of small, privately-held companies. We estimate that the ten largest aggregates
producers account for approximately 30% to 35% of the total U.S. aggregates production. Despite being the industry leader, Vulcan’s total U.S. market share is less than 10%. Other publicly traded companies among the ten largest U.S. aggregates
producers include the following:

§

Cemex S.A.B. de C.V.

§

CRH plc

§

HeidelbergCement AG

§

Holcim Ltd.

§

Lafarge

§

Martin Marietta Materials, Inc.

§

MDU Resources Group, Inc.

Because the U.S.
aggregates industry is highly fragmented, with over 5,000 companies managing almost 10,000 operations, many opportunities for consolidation exist. Therefore, companies in the industry tend to grow by entering new markets or enhancing their market
positions by acquiring existing facilities.

Part I



BUSINESS STRATEGY

Vulcan provides the basic materials for the infrastructure needed to expand the U.S. economy. Our strategy is based on our strength in aggregates. Aggregates are used in all types of construction and in the
production of asphalt mix and ready-mixed concrete. Our materials are used to build the roads, tunnels, bridges, railroads and airports that connect us, and to build the hospitals, churches, shopping centers, and factories that are essential to our
lives and the economy. The following graphs illustrate the relationship of our four operating segments to sales.

AGGREGATES-LED
VALUE CREATION — 2011 NET SALES

* Represents sales to external customers of our aggregates and our downstream products that use our aggregates

Our business strategies include: 1) aggregates focus, 2) coast-to-coast footprint, 3) profitable growth, 4) focus on cost reduction, and 5)
effective land management.

1. AGGREGATES FOCUS

Aggregates are used in virtually all types of public and private construction projects and practically no substitutes for quality aggregates exist. Our focus on aggregates allows us to:

§

BUILD AND HOLD SUBSTANTIAL RESERVES

: The locations of our reserves are critical to our long-term success because of barriers to entry created in many metropolitan
markets by zoning and permitting regulations and high transportation costs. Our reserves are strategically located throughout the United States in high-growth areas that will require large amounts of aggregates to meet future construction demand.
Aggregates operations have flexible production capabilities and require no raw material other than our owned or leased aggregates reserves. Our downstream businesses (asphalt mix and concrete) predominantly use Vulcan-produced aggregates.

§

TAKE ADVANTAGE OF BEING THE LARGEST PRODUCER

: Each aggregates operation is unique because of its location within a local market with particular geological
characteristics. Every operation, however, uses a similar group of assets to produce saleable aggregates and provide customer service. Vulcan is the largest aggregates company in the U.S., whether measured by production or by revenues. Our 323
active aggregates facilities provide opportunities to standardize and procure equipment (fixed and mobile), parts, supplies and services in an efficient and cost-effective manner, both regionally and nationally. Additionally, we are able to share
best practices across the organization and leverage our size for administrative support, customer service, accounts receivable and accounts payable, technical support and engineering.

Part I



2. COAST-TO-COAST FOOTPRINT

Demand for construction aggregates positively correlates with changes in population growth, household formation and employment. We have pursued a strategy to increase our presence in metropolitan areas that
are expected to grow the most rapidly.

Our top ten revenue-producing states are predicted to have 69% of the total growth in the U.S. population between 2010
and 2020 while all of the Vulcan-served states are predicted to have 75% of such growth. Much of our reserves are located in areas where zoning and permitting laws have made opening new quarries increasingly difficult. Our diversified geographic
locations help insulate Vulcan from variations in regional weather and economies.

(Demographic source: Moody’s Analytics)

3.
PROFITABLE GROWTH

Our growth is a result of acquisitions, cost management and investment activities.

§

STRATEGIC ACQUISITIONS:

Since becoming a public company in 1956, Vulcan has principally grown by mergers and acquisitions. For example, in 1999 we acquired CalMat
Co., thereby expanding our aggregates operations into California and Arizona and making us one of the nation’s leading producers of asphalt mix and ready-mixed concrete.

In 2007, we acquired Florida Rock Industries, Inc., the largest acquisition in our history. This acquisition expanded our aggregates business
in Florida and other southeastern and Mid-Atlantic states, as well as adding to our ready-mixed concrete business and added cement manufacturing and distribution facilities in Florida.

In addition to these large acquisitions, we have completed many smaller acquisitions that have contributed significantly to our growth.

§

REINVESTMENT OPPORTUNITIES WITH HIGH RETURNS:

During this decade, Moody’s Analytics projects that 75% of the U.S. population growth will occur in Vulcan-served
states. The close proximity of our production facilities and our aggregates reserves to this projected population growth creates many opportunities to invest capital in high-return projects — projects that will add reserves, increase production
capacity and improve costs.

Part I



4. FOCUS ON COST REDUCTION

In a business where aggregates sell, on average, for $10.25 per ton, we are accustomed to rigorous cost management throughout economic cycles. Small savings per ton add up to significant cost reductions. We
are able to reduce or expand production and adjust employment levels to meet challenging market demands without jeopardizing our ability to take advantage of future increased demand.

Our knowledgeable and experienced workforce and our flexible production capabilities have allowed us to manage costs aggressively during the recession. In addition to cost reduction steps taken in previous
years, in 2011 we made additional reductions in our workforce, adjusted plant operating hours and divested operations in non-strategic markets. These steps did not impact our ability to maintain and, in some cases, improve our per-ton margins. As a
result, our cash earnings for each ton of aggregates sold in 2011 was 24% higher than at the peak of demand in 2005.

5. EFFECTIVE LAND
MANAGEMENT

We believe that effective land management is both a business strategy and a social responsibility that contributes to our success.
Good stewardship requires the careful use of existing resources as well as long-term planning because mining, ultimately, is an interim use of the land. Therefore, we strive to achieve a balance between the value we create through our mining
activities and the value we create through effective post-mining land management. We continue to expand our thinking and focus our actions on wise decisions regarding the life cycle management of the land we currently hold and will hold in the
future.

PRODUCT LINES

We have four reporting segments organized around our principal product lines:

§

aggregates

§

concrete

§

asphalt mix

§

cement

1. AGGREGATES

A number of factors affect the U.S. aggregates
industry and our business including markets, reserves and demand cycles.

§

LOCAL MARKETS:

Aggregates have a high weight-to-value ratio and, in most cases, must be produced near where they are used; if not, transportation can cost more than
the materials. Exceptions to this typical market structure include areas along the U.S. Gulf Coast and the Eastern Seaboard where there are limited supplies of locally available high quality aggregates. We serve these markets from inland quarries
— shipping by barge and rail — and from our quarry on

Part I



Mexico’s Yucatan Peninsula. We transport aggregates from Mexico to the U.S. principally on our three Panamax-class, self-unloading ships.

§

DIVERSE MARKETS:

Large quantities of aggregates are used in virtually all types of public- and private-sector construction projects such as highways, airports,
water and sewer systems, industrial manufacturing facilities, residential and nonresidential buildings. Aggregates also are used widely as railroad track ballast.

§

LOCATION AND QUALITY OF RESERVES:

We currently have 15.0 billion tons of permitted and proven or probable aggregates reserves. The bulk of these reserves are
located in areas where we expect greater than average rates of growth in population, jobs and households, which require new infrastructure, housing, offices, schools and other development. Such growth requires aggregates for construction. Zoning and
permitting regulations in some markets have made it increasingly difficult for the aggregates industry to expand existing quarries or to develop new quarries. These restrictions could curtail expansion in certain areas, but they also could increase
the value of our reserves at existing locations.

§

DEMAND CYCLES:

Long-term growth in demand for aggregates is largely driven by growth in population, jobs and households. While short- and medium-term demand for
aggregates fluctuates with economic cycles, declines have historically been followed by strong recoveries, with each peak establishing a new historical high. In comparison to all other recent demand cycles, the current downturn has been unusually
steep and long, making it difficult to predict the timing or strength of future recovery.

Highway construction is the most
aggregates-intensive form of construction and residential construction is the least intensive (see table below) relative to a dollar of construction spending. A dollar spent for highway construction is estimated to consume seven times the quantity
of aggregates consumed by a dollar spent for residential construction. Other non-highway infrastructure markets like airports, sewer and waste disposal, or water supply plants and utilities also require large quantities of aggregates in their
foundations and structures. These types of infrastructure-related construction can be four times more aggregates-intensive than residential construction. Generally, nonresidential buildings require two to three times as much aggregates per dollar of
spending as a new home with most of the aggregates used in the foundations, building structure and parking lots.

U.S.
AGGREGATES DEMAND BY END-MARKET

Part I



In addition, the following factors influence the aggregates market:

§

HIGHLY FRAGMENTED INDUSTRY:

The U.S. aggregates industry is composed of over 5,000 companies that manage almost 10,000 operations. This fragmented structure
provides many opportunities for consolidation. Companies in the industry commonly enter new markets or expand positions in existing markets through the acquisition of existing facilities.

§

RELATIVELY STABLE DEMAND FROM THE PUBLIC SECTOR:

Publicly funded construction activity has historically been more stable than privately funded construction. Public
construction also has been considerably less cyclical than private construction and generally requires more aggregates per dollar of construction spending. Private construction (primarily residential and nonresidential buildings) typically is more
affected by general economic cycles than public construction. Publicly funded projects (particularly highways, roads and bridges) tend to receive more consistent levels of funding throughout economic cycles.

§

LIMITED PRODUCT SUBSTITUTION:

With few exceptions, there are no practical substitutes for quality aggregates. In urban locations, recycled concrete has limited
applications as a lower-cost alternative to virgin aggregates. However, many types of construction projects cannot be served by recycled concrete but require the use of virgin aggregates to meet specifications and performance-based criteria for
durability, strength and other qualities.

§

WIDELY USED IN DOWNSTREAM PRODUCTS:

In the production process, aggregates are processed for specific applications or uses. Two products that use aggregates as a raw
material are asphalt mix and ready-mixed concrete. By weight, aggregates comprise approximately 95% of asphalt mix and 78% of ready-mixed concrete.

§

FLEXIBLE PRODUCTION CAPABILITIES:

The production of aggregates is a mechanical process in which stone is crushed and, through a series of screens, separated into
various sizes depending on how it will be used. Aggregates plants do not require high start-up costs and typically have lower fixed costs than continuous process manufacturing operations. Production capacity can be flexible by adjusting operating
hours to meet changing market demand.

§

NO RAW MATERIAL INPUTS:

Unlike typical industrial manufacturing industries, the aggregates industry does not require the input of raw material beyond owned or
leased aggregates reserves. Stone, sand and gravel are naturally occurring resources. However, production does require the use of explosives, hydrocarbon fuels and electric power.

OUR MARKETS

We focus on the
U.S. markets with the greatest expected population growth and where construction is expected to expand. Because transportation is a significant part of the delivered cost of aggregates, our facilities are typically located in the markets they serve
or with access to economical transportation to their markets. We serve both the public and the private sectors.

PUBLIC SECTOR

Public sector construction includes spending by federal, state, and local governments for highways, bridges and airports as well as other infrastructure
construction for sewer and waste disposal systems, water supply systems, dams, reservoirs and other public construction projects. Construction for power plants and other utilities is funded from both public and private sources. In 2011, publicly
funded construction accounted for approximately 55% of our total aggregates shipments.

PUBLIC SECTOR FUNDING:

Generally, public sector
construction spending is more stable than private sector construction because public sector spending is less sensitive to interest rates and has historically been supported by multi-year legislation and programs. For example, the federal
transportation bill is a principal source of funding for public infrastructure and transportation projects. For over two decades, a portion of transportation projects have been funded through a series of multi-year bills. The long-term aspect of
these bills is critical because it provides state departments of transportation with the ability to plan and execute long-term and complex highway projects. Federal highway spending is governed by multi-year authorization bills and annual budget
appropriations using funds largely from the Federal Highway Trust Fund. This trust receives funding from taxes on gasoline and other levies. The level of state spending on infrastructure varies across the United States and depends on individual
state needs and economies. In 2011, approximately 31% of our aggregates sales by volume were used in highway construction projects.

Part I



CHANGES IN MULTI-YEAR FUNDING:

The most recent federal transportation bill, known as SAFETEA-LU,
expired on September 30, 2009. Congress has yet to pass a replacement bill. As a result, funds for highway construction have been provided by a series of short-term authorized extensions; the most recent will expire on March 31, 2012. Even
with the many budget cuts proposed and made by Congress, in 2011 highway funding levels remained essentially even with Fiscal Year 2010 levels of more than $41 billion annually. In addition, Congress passed its 2012 appropriations bill for highway
funding essentially in line with 2011 levels. The Senate and House began floor action on new transportation reauthorization bills the week of February 14, 2012 and are to resume debate following the President’s Day recess.

NEED FOR PUBLIC INFRASTRUCTURE:

A significant need exists for additional and ongoing investments in the nation’s infrastructure. In 2009, a
report by the American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) gave our nation’s infrastructure an overall grade of “D” and estimated that an investment of $2.2 trillion over a five-year period is needed for improvements. While the needs
are clear, the source of funding for infrastructure improvements is not. In its report, the ASCE suggests that all levels of government, owners and users need to renew their commitment to infrastructure investments in all categories and that all
available financing options should be explored and debated.

FEDERAL STIMULUS IMPACT:

The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009
(the Stimulus or ARRA) was signed into law on February 17, 2009 to create jobs and restore economic growth through, among other things, the modernization of America’s infrastructure and improving its energy resources. Included in the $787
billion of economic stimulus funding was $50 to $60 billion of heavy construction, including $27.5 billion for highways and bridges. In Vulcan-served states there are approximately $2.8 billion of Stimulus funds remaining to be spent for road
construction in 2012 and beyond.

PRIVATE SECTOR

The private sector market includes both nonresidential buildings and residential construction and is more cyclical than public construction. In 2011, privately-funded construction accounted for approximately
45% of our total aggregates shipments.

NONRESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION:

Private nonresidential construction includes a wide array of
projects. Such projects generally are more aggregates intensive than residential construction, but less aggregates intensive than public construction. Overall demand in private nonresidential construction is generally driven by job growth, vacancy
rates, private infrastructure needs and demographic trends. The growth of the private workforce creates demand for offices, hotels and restaurants. Likewise, population growth generates demand for stores, shopping centers, warehouses and parking
decks as well as hospitals, churches and entertainment facilities. Large industrial projects, such as a new manufacturing facility, can increase the need for other manufacturing plants to supply parts and assemblies. Construction activity in this
end market is influenced by a firm’s ability to finance a project and the cost of such financing.

Consistent with past cycles of private
sector construction, private nonresidential construction activity remained strong after residential construction peaked in 2006. However, in late 2007, contract awards for nonresidential buildings peaked. In 2008, contract awards in the U.S.
declined 24% from the prior year and in 2009 fell sharply, declining 56% from 2008 levels. However, after bottoming in 2010, trailing twelve-month contract awards for private nonresidential buildings began to improve in 2011, ending the year up 10%
from 2010 levels. This year-over-year increase was attributable to continued strength throughout the year in manufacturing as well as second-half growth in contract awards for stores and office buildings, up 18% and 15%, respectively, at
December 31, 2011. Contract awards are a leading indicator of future construction activity and a continuation of the recent trend in awards should translate to growth in demand for aggregates. Employment growth, more attractive lending
standards and general recovery in the economy will help drive continued growth in construction activity in this end market.

RESIDENTIAL
CONSTRUCTION:

The majority of residential construction is for single-family houses with the remainder consisting of multi-family construction (i.e., two family houses, apartment buildings and condominiums). Public housing comprises only a small
portion of housing demand. Household formations in Vulcan’s markets have grown faster than household formations in the U.S. as a whole in the past decade. During that time, household growth was 13% in our markets compared to 8% in the remainder
of the United States. Construction activity in this end market is influenced by the cost and availability of mortgage financing. Demand for our products generally occurs early in the infrastructure phase of residential construction and later as part
of driveways or parking lots.

Part I



U.S. housing starts, as measured by McGraw-Hill data, peaked in early 2006 at over 2 million units
annually. By the end of 2009, total housing starts had declined to less than 600,000 units, well below prior historical lows of approximately 1 million units annually.

PRIVATE CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY COMPARISON

(Year-over-Year Percent
Change in Trailing Twelve Month Contract Awards)

In 2011, total U.S. housing starts increased 1% from the prior year due to a 25% increase in multi-family starts. While
these results don’t necessarily indicate a sustained recovery in residential construction, the modest improvement in construction activity is encouraging. Lower home prices, attractive mortgage interest rates and fewer existing homes for sale
provide some optimism for single-family housing construction in 2012 and beyond, albeit from low levels.

ADDITIONAL AGGREGATES PRODUCTS AND
MARKETS

We sell ballast to railroads for construction and maintenance of railroad track. We also sell riprap and jetty stone for erosion
control along waterways. In addition, stone can be used as a feedstock for cement and lime plants and for making a variety of adhesives, fillers and extenders. Coal-burning power plants use limestone in scrubbers to reduce harmful emissions.
Limestone that is crushed to a fine powder can be sold as agricultural lime.

Our Brooksville, Florida calcium plant produces calcium products
for the animal feed, paint, plastics, water treatment and joint compound industries. This facility is supplied with high quality calcium carbonate material mined at the Brooksville quarry.

Part I



OUR COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE

We are the largest producer of construction aggregates in the United States. The aggregates market is highly fragmented with many small, independent producers. Therefore, depending on the market, we may
compete with large international, national or regional firms as well as relatively small local producers. Because construction aggregates are expensive to transport relative to their value, markets generally are local in nature. Thus, the cost to
deliver product to the location where it is used is an important competitive factor.

We serve many metropolitan areas that demographers expect
will experience the largest absolute growth in population in the future. A market often consists of a single metropolitan area or one or more counties where transportation from the producing location to the customer is by truck only. Approximately
80% of our total aggregates shipments are delivered exclusively by truck, and another 13% are delivered by truck after reaching a sales yard. Sales yards and other distribution facilities located on waterways and rail lines allow us to reach markets
that do not have locally available sources of aggregates.

Zoning and permitting regulations in many metropolitan markets have made it
increasingly difficult to expand existing quarries or to develop new quarries. However, such regulations, while potentially curtailing expansion in certain areas, could also increase the value of our reserves at existing locations.

We sell a relatively small amount of construction aggregates outside of the United States, principally in the areas surrounding our large quarry on the
Yucatan Peninsula in Mexico. Nondomestic sales and long-lived assets outside the United States are reported in Note 15 “Segment Reporting” in Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”

2. CONCRETE

We produce and sell
ready-mixed concrete in California, Florida, Georgia, Maryland, Texas, Virginia and the District of Columbia. Additionally, we produce and sell, in a limited number of these markets, other concrete products such as block and pre-cast beams. We also
resell purchased building materials for use with ready-mixed concrete and concrete block.

This segment relies on our reserves of aggregates,
functioning essentially as a customer to our aggregates operations. Aggregates are a major component in ready-mixed concrete, comprising approximately 78% by weight of this product. We meet the aggregates requirements of our Concrete segment almost
wholly through our Aggregates segment. These product transfers are made at local market prices for the particular grade and quality of material required.

We serve our Concrete segment customers from our local production facilities or by truck. Because ready-mixed concrete hardens rapidly, delivery typically is within close proximity to the producing facility.

Ready-mixed concrete production also requires cement. In the Florida market, cement requirements for ready-mixed concrete production are
supplied substantially by our Cement segment. In other markets, we purchase cement from third-party suppliers. We do not anticipate any material difficulties in obtaining the raw materials necessary for this segment to operate.

3. ASPHALT MIX

We produce and sell
asphalt mix in Arizona, California, and Texas. This segment relies on our reserves of aggregates, functioning essentially as a customer to our aggregates operations. Aggregates are a major component in asphalt mix, comprising approximately 95% by
weight of this product. We meet the aggregates requirements for our Asphalt Mix segment almost wholly through our Aggregates segment. These product transfers are made at local market prices for the particular grade and quality of material required.

Because asphalt mix hardens rapidly, delivery typically is within close proximity to the producing facility. The asphalt production process
requires liquid asphalt cement, which we purchase entirely from third-party producers. We serve our Asphalt Mix segment customers from our local production facilities.

Part I



4. CEMENT

Our Newberry, Florida cement plant produces Portland and masonry cement that we sell in both bulk and bags to the concrete products industry. Our Tampa, Florida distribution facility can import and export
cement and slag. Some of the imported cement is resold, and the balance of the cement is blended, bagged, or reprocessed into specialty cements that we then sell. The slag is ground and sold in blended or unblended form.

The Cement segment’s largest single customer is our own ready-mixed concrete operations within the Concrete segment.

An expansion of production capacity at our Newberry, Florida cement plant was completed in 2010. Total annual production capacity is now at 1.6 million
tons per year. This plant is supplied by limestone mined at the facility. These limestone reserves total 191.0 million tons.

OTHER BUSINESS-RELATED ITEMS

SEASONALITY AND CYCLICAL NATURE OF OUR BUSINESS

Almost all of our products are
produced and consumed outdoors. Seasonal changes and other weather-related conditions can affect the production and sales volumes of our products. Therefore, the financial results for any quarter do not necessarily indicate the results expected for
the year. Normally, the highest sales and earnings are in the third quarter and the lowest are in the first quarter because of winter weather in the first quarter. Furthermore, our sales and earnings are sensitive to national, regional and local
economic conditions and particularly to cyclical swings in construction spending, primarily in the private sector. The levels of construction spending are affected by changing interest rates and demographic and population fluctuations.

CUSTOMERS

No material part
of our business is dependent upon any customers whose loss would have an adverse effect on our business. In 2011, our top five customers accounted for 4.7% of our total revenues (excluding internal sales), and no single customer accounted for more
than 1.3% of our total revenues. Our products typically are sold to private industry and not directly to governmental entities. Although approximately 45% to 55% of our aggregates shipments have historically been used in publicly funded
construction, such as highways, airports and government buildings, relatively insignificant sales are made directly to federal, state, county or municipal governments/agencies. Therefore, although reductions in state and federal funding can curtail
publicly funded construction, our business is not directly subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts with state or federal governments.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT COSTS

We conduct research and development and
technical service activities directed toward new and more efficient uses of our products and support customers in pursuing the most efficient use of our products. We spent $1.1 million in 2011, $1.6 million in 2010 and $1.5 million in 2009 on
research and development activities.

Part I



ENVIRONMENTAL COSTS AND GOVERNMENTAL REGULATION

Our operations are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and worker health and
safety; examples include regulation of facility air emissions and water discharges, waste management, protection of wetlands, listed and threatened species, noise and dust exposure control for workers, and safety regulations under both NSHA and
OHSA. Compliance with these various regulations requires a substantial capital investment, and ongoing expenditures for the operation and maintenance of systems and implementation of programs. We estimate that capital expenditures for environmental
control facilities in 2012 and 2013 will be approximately $9.2 million and $11.6 million, respectively. These anticipated expenditures are not expected to have any material impact on our earnings or competitive position.

Frequently, we are required by state and local regulations or contractual obligations to reclaim our former mining sites. These reclamation liabilities are
recorded in our financial statements as a liability at the time the obligation arises. The fair value of such obligations is capitalized and depreciated over the estimated useful life of the owned or leased site. The liability is accreted through
charges to operating expenses. To determine the fair value, we estimate the cost for a third party to perform the legally required reclamation, which is adjusted for inflation and risk and includes a reasonable profit margin. All reclamation
obligations are reviewed at least annually. Reclaimed quarries often have potential for use in commercial or residential development or as reservoirs or landfills. However, no projected cash flows from these anticipated uses have been considered to
offset or reduce the estimated reclamation liability.

For additional information regarding reclamation obligations (referred to in our financial
statements as asset retirement obligations), see Notes 1 and 17 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”

PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS

We do not own or have a license or other rights under
any patents, trademarks or trade names that are material to any of our reporting segments.

OTHER INFORMATION REGARDING VULCAN

Vulcan is a New Jersey corporation incorporated on February 14, 2007, but its predecessor company was incorporated on
September 27, 1956. Our principal sources of energy are electricity, diesel fuel, natural gas and coal. We do not anticipate any difficulty in obtaining sources of energy required for operation of any of our reporting segments (i.e.,
Aggregates, Concrete, Asphalt Mix and Cement).

As of January 1, 2012, we employed 7,124 people in the U.S. Of these employees, 626 are
represented by labor unions. As of that date, we also employed 294 people in Mexico, 226 of which are hourly employees represented by a labor union. We do not anticipate any significant issues with any such unions in 2012.

We do not consider our backlog of orders to be material to, or a significant factor in, evaluating and understanding our business.

Part I



EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The names, positions and ages, as of February 20, 2012, of our executive officers are as follows:

The principal occupations of the executive officers during the past five years are set forth below:

Donald M. James was named Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors in 1997.

Daniel F. Sansone was elected Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer effective as of February 1, 2011. Prior to that, he served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from
May 2005.

Danny R. Shepherd was elected Executive Vice President, Construction Materials effective as of February 1, 2011. From February
2007 through January 2011, he served as Senior Vice President, Construction Materials-East.

John R. McPherson was elected Senior Vice President,
Strategy and Business Development effective October 10, 2011. Before that Mr. McPherson was a senior partner at McKinsey & Company, a global management consulting firm. Mr. McPherson joined McKinsey in 1995.

Robert A. Wason IV was elected Senior Vice President and General Counsel in September 2008. Prior to that, he served as Senior Vice President, Corporate
Development from December 1998.

J. Wayne Houston was elected Senior Vice President, Human Resources in February 2004.

Ejaz A. Khan was elected Vice President and Controller in February 1999. He was appointed Chief Information Officer in February 2000.

Part I



SHAREHOLDER RETURN PERFORMANCE PRESENTATION

Below is a graph comparing the performance of our common stock, with dividends reinvested, to that of the Standard & Poor’s 500 Stock Index
(S&P 500) and the Materials and Services Sector of the Wilshire 5000 Index (Wilshire 5000 M&S) from December 31, 2006 to December 31, 2011. The Wilshire 5000 M&S is a market capitalization weighted sector containing public
equities of firms in the Materials and Services sector, which includes our company and approximately 1,200 other companies.

INVESTOR INFORMATION

We make available on our website,

www.vulcanmaterials.com

, free of charge, copies of our:

§

Annual Report on Form 10-K

§

Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q

§

Current Reports on Form 8-K

We also provide
amendments to those reports filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as well as all Forms 3, 4 and 5 filed with the SEC by
our executive officers and directors, as soon as the filings are made publicly available by the SEC on its EDGAR database (

www.sec.gov

).

The public may read and copy materials filed with the SEC at the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D. C. 20549. The public
may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-732-0330. In addition to accessing copies of our reports online, you may request a copy of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, including financial
statements, by writing to Jerry F. Perkins Jr., Secretary, Vulcan Materials Company, 1200 Urban Center Drive, Birmingham, Alabama 35242.

We have
a:

§

Business Conduct Policy applicable to all employees and directors

§

Code of Ethics for the CEO and Senior Financial Officers

Copies of the Business Conduct Policy and the Code of Ethics are available on our website under the heading “Corporate Governance.” If we make any amendment to, or waiver of, any provision of the
Code of Ethics, we will disclose such information on our website as well as through filings with the SEC.

Part I



Our Board of Directors has also adopted:

§

Corporate Governance Guidelines

§

Charters for its Audit, Compensation and Governance Committees

These documents meet all applicable SEC and New York Stock Exchange regulatory requirements.

Each of
these documents is available on our website under the heading, “Corporate Governance,” or you may request a copy of any of these documents by writing to Jerry F. Perkins Jr., Secretary, Vulcan Materials Company, 1200 Urban Center Drive,
Birmingham, Alabama 35242.