ITEM 1. BUSINESS

SUMMARY

Largest U.S. aggregates company by production and revenues

We are the nation’s largest producer of construction aggregates, primarily crushed stone, sand
and gravel. We are also a major producer of asphalt mix and ready-mixed concrete and a leading
producer of cement in Florida.

We estimate that the ten largest aggregates producers account for approximately 30% to 35% of the
total U.S. aggregates production. Although the industry leader, Vulcan’s total U.S. market share is
less than 10%. Other publicly traded companies among the ten largest U.S. aggregates producers
include Cemex, CRH, Heidelberg, Holcim, Lafarge, MDU Resources and Martin Marietta Materials. The
U.S. aggregates industry is highly fragmented with approximately 5,000 companies managing more than
10,000 operations. This industry structure provides considerable opportunities for consolidation
and it is common for companies in the industry to grow by entering new markets or enhancing their
market positions by acquiring existing facilities. Since our inception as a public company in 1956,
we have grown mainly through mergers and acquisitions.

Reserves are essential to long-term success in the aggregates business. We have 14.2 billion tons
of permitted and proven or probable reserves.

Reporting segments

We have three reporting segments organized around our principal product lines: aggregates,
asphalt mix and concrete, and cement.

Page 2




STRATEGY

Vulcan provides the basic materials for the infrastructure needed to drive the U.S. economy.
Our strategy is based on our strength in aggregates. Aggregates are used in all types of
construction and in the production of asphalt mix and ready-mixed concrete. Our materials are used
to build the roads, tunnels, bridges and airports that connect us, and to build the hospitals,
churches, shopping centers and factories that are essential to our lives and the economy.

AGGREGATES-LED VALUE CREATION — 2009 NET SALES

*Represents sales to external customers of our aggregates and our downstream
products that use our aggregates

Aggregates focus

•Attractive industry fundamentals — Aggregates are used in
virtually all types of public and private construction projects and
there are practically no substitutes for quality aggregates.
Because of barriers to entry created by zoning and permitting
regulations and because of high transportation costs, the location
of reserves is critical to long-term success. Our reserves are
strategically located in high growth areas throughout the United
States that will require large amounts of aggregates to meet
construction demand. Aggregates operations have flexible production
capabilities and require no raw material inputs other than owned or
leased aggregates reserves.



•Scale from being largest producer — Each aggregates operation is
unique because of its location within a local market and its
geological characteristics. However, every operation utilizes a
similar group of assets to produce saleable aggregates and provide
customer service. As the largest aggregates company in the U.S.,
whether measured by production or revenues, our 317 aggregates
facilities provide opportunities to standardize and procure equipment
(fixed and mobile), parts, supplies and services either regionally or
nationally in the most efficient and cost-effective manner possible.
Additionally, we are able to share best practices across the
organization and leverage our size in the areas of administrative
support, customer service, accounts receivables and accounts payable,
technical support and engineering.



•Ability to generate strong cash flows, even in a recession — A
knowledgeable and experienced workforce and flexible production
capabilities have allowed us to aggressively manage costs during the
current recession. As a result, operating cash flow was $453.0 million
in 2009 and $435.2 million in 2008.



•Our downstream businesses (asphalt-mix and ready-mixed concrete) use
Vulcan-produced aggregates — Virtually all of the aggregates used at
our asphalt-mix and ready-mixed concrete plants are produced
internally.

Page 3




Leverage coast-to-coast footprint

Demand for construction aggregates generally correlates with changes in population growth,
household formation and employment. We have pursued a strategy to increase our presence in
metropolitan areas that are expected to grow the most rapidly.

PERCENTAGE SHARE OF PREDICTED U.S. POPULATION GROWTH TO 2020



Source: Woods & Poole Economics and Moody’s Economy.com

Large, high-growth markets — We have aggregates operations in 9 of the 10 metropolitan areas
that demographers expect to have the largest absolute growth in population over the next decade.
Vulcan-served states are predicted to have 74% of the total growth in the U.S. population to 2020.
Our top five revenue producing states are predicted to have 48% of the total growth in the U.S.
population to 2020. This position gives us strategically located reserves where they are most
needed. Additionally, many of these reserves are located in areas where zoning and permitting laws
have made opening new quarries increasingly difficult.

Diversified regional exposure helps insulate Vulcan from variations in local weather and economies.

Profitable growth

•Strategic acquisitions — Since its inception as a public company
in 1956, Vulcan has principally grown by merger and acquisition.
For example, in 1999 we acquired CalMat, Inc., expanding our
aggregates operations into California, Arizona and New Mexico and
making us one of the nation’s leading producers of hot-mix asphalt
and ready-mixed concrete. In 2007, we acquired Florida Rock
Industries, Inc. (Florida Rock), the largest acquisition in our
history. The Florida Rock acquisition expanded our aggregates
business in Florida and other southeastern and mid-Atlantic states,
and added to our operations an extensive ready-mixed concrete
business in Florida, Maryland, Virginia and Washington, D.C. and
cement manufacturing and distribution facilities in Florida. In
addition to these large acquisitions, we have completed many
smaller acquisitions that over time have contributed significantly
to our growth.



•Tightly manage costs — In a business where our aggregates sell, on
average, for $10.30 per ton, we are accustomed to rigorous cost
management throughout economic cycles. Small savings per ton of
production add up to significant cost reductions. We are able to
rationalize production and adjust employment levels to meet changing
market demands without jeopardizing our ability to capitalize on
future increased demand.



•Reinvestment opportunities with high returns — It is estimated that
74% of the U.S. population growth over the next decade will occur in
Vulcan-served states. The close proximity of our production facilities
and our aggregates reserves to this projected population growth
creates many opportunities to invest capital in high-return projects
 — projects that will add reserves, increase production capacity and
improve costs.

Page 4




Effective land management

Responsible land management is important to Vulcan’s success, not only with respect to social
responsibility but also as a component of our business strategy. Good stewardship requires the
careful use of existing resources. It also requires long-term planning, because mining, ultimately,
is an interim use of the land. We therefore strive to achieve a balance between the value we create
through our mining activities and the value created when properties can be reused at the conclusion
of mining. We continue to expand our thinking and focus our actions on wise decisions regarding the
life cycle management of the land we currently hold and will hold in the future.

AGGREGATES

Attractive U.S. market fundamentals for aggregates

There are a number of factors that affect the U.S. aggregates industry and our business.



Primarily local markets

Aggregates have a high weight-to-value ratio and, in most cases, must be produced near where they
are used or transportation can cost more than the materials. Exceptions to this typical market
structure include areas along the U.S. Gulf Coast and the eastern seaboard where there are limited
supplies of locally available aggregates. We serve these markets from inland quarries — shipping
by barge and rail — and from our quarry on Mexico’s Yucatan Peninsula. We transport aggregates
from Mexico to the U.S. principally on our Panamax-class, self-unloading ships.

Location and quality of reserves are critical

Vulcan currently has 14.2 billion tons of permitted and proven or probable reserves. The bulk of
these reserves are located in areas we expect to have greater than average rates of growth in
population, jobs and households, requiring new infrastructure, housing, offices, schools and other
development, all of which require aggregates for construction. Zoning and permitting regulations
have made it increasingly difficult for the aggregates industry to expand existing quarries or to
develop new quarries in some markets. These restrictions could curtail expansion in certain areas
but they could also increase the value of our reserves at existing locations.

Demand cycles characterized by short, steep declines followed by solid recovery

Long-term growth in demand for aggregates is largely driven by growth in population, jobs and
households. While short- and medium-term demand for aggregates fluctuates with economic cycles, the
declines have historically been followed by strong recovery, with each peak establishing a new
historical high. In comparison to all other recent demand cycles, the current downturn has been
unusually steep and long. It is therefore difficult to predict the timing or strength of any future
recovery.

Diverse markets

Large quantities of aggregates are used in virtually all types of public- and private-sector
construction projects — highways, water and sewer systems, industrial manufacturing facilities,
residential and nonresidential buildings. Aggregates also are widely used as railroad track
ballast.

Page 5




ESTIMATED U.S. AGGREGATES DEMAND BY END-MARKET



Source: internal estimates

Highway construction is the most aggregates-intensive form of construction and residential
construction is the least intensive. A dollar of spending for highway construction is estimated to
consume seven times the quantity of aggregates consumed by a dollar of spending for residential
construction. Other non-highway infrastructure markets like airports, sewer and waste disposal or
water supply plants and utilities also require large quantities of aggregates in their foundations
and structures. These types of infrastructure-related construction can be four times more
aggregates-intensive than residential construction. Generally, nonresidential buildings require two
to three times as much aggregates per dollar of spending as a new home with most of the aggregates
used in the foundations, building structure and parking lots.

Highly fragmented industry

The U.S. aggregates industry is composed of approximately 5,000 companies managing more than 10,000
operations. This fragmented structure provides considerable opportunities for consolidation and it
is common for companies in the industry to enter new markets or expand positions in existing
markets through the acquisition of existing facilities.

Relatively stable demand from the public sector

Publicly funded construction activity historically has been more stable than privately funded
construction. Public construction also has been less cyclical than private construction and it
requires more aggregates per dollar of construction spending. Private construction (primarily
residential and nonresidential buildings) typically is more subject to general economic cycles than
public construction. Publicly funded projects (particularly highways, roads and bridges) tend to
receive consistent levels of funding throughout economic cycles.

Limited product substitution

With few exceptions, there are no practical substitutes for quality aggregates. In some areas,
typically urban locations, recycled concrete has limited applications as a lower-cost alternative
to virgin aggregates. However, many types of construction projects cannot be serviced by recycled
concrete but require the use of virgin aggregates to meet specifications and performance-based
criteria for durability, strength and other qualities.

Page 6




Widely used in downstream products

In the production process, aggregates are processed for specific applications or uses. Two
downstream products that utilize aggregates are asphalt mix and ready-mixed concrete. Aggregates
comprise approximately 95% of asphalt mix by weight and 78% of ready-mixed concrete by weight.

Flexible production capabilities

The production of aggregates is a mechanical process in which stone is crushed and, through a
series of screens, separated into various sizes depending on ultimate use. The production does not
require high start-up costs like continuous process manufacturing. Production capacity can be
flexed efficiently by adjusting operating hours to meet changing market demand. For example, we
reduced production during 2009 in response to the economic downturn and have the capacity to
quickly increase production as economic conditions and demand improve.

No raw material inputs

Unlike much industrial manufacturing, the aggregates industry does not require raw material inputs
beyond owned or leased aggregates reserves. Stone, sand and gravel are naturally occurring
resources. Production does require the use of explosives, hydrocarbon fuels and electric power.

Our markets

Our markets are local yet national. Because transportation is a significant part of the
delivered cost of aggregates, we focus on the areas of the U.S. with the greatest expected
population growth and where construction is expected to expand. Thus, our distribution facilities
are located in the markets they serve.

Public sector

Public sector construction includes spending by federal, state and local governments for highways,
bridges and airports as well as other infrastructure construction for sewer and waste disposal
systems, water supply systems, dams, reservoirs and other public construction projects.
Construction for power plants and other utilities is funded from both public and private sources.
In 2009, publicly funded construction accounted for 50% of our total aggregates shipments.

Generally, public sector construction spending is more stable than private sector construction.
Public sector spending is less sensitive to interest rates and often is supported by multi-year
legislation and programs. The federal transportation bill is a principal source of federal funding
for public infrastructure and transportation projects. For over two decades, the federal funding
component of these projects has been provided through a series of six-year bills. The multi-year
aspect of these bills is critically important because it provides state departments of
transportation with the ability to plan and execute long-term and complex highway projects. Federal
highway spending has been governed by a six-year authorization bill, the most recent covering
fiscal years 2004-2009, and annual budget appropriations using funds largely taken from the Federal
Highway Trust Fund. This trust fund receives funding from taxes on gasoline and other levies. The
level of state spending on infrastructure varies across the United States and depends on individual
state needs and economies. In 2009, approximately 27% of our aggregates sales by volume were used
in public highway construction projects.

The most recent federal transportation bill, known as SAFETEA-LU, expired on September 30, 2009.
Following the expiration, Congress has yet to extend the legislation or pass a replacement bill. As
a result, funds for highway construction are being provided by a series of relatively short
continuing resolutions and at funding levels considerably below what would have been available had
Congress extended the provisions of SAFETEA-LU. This uncertainty compelled many states to postpone
highway maintenance and improvement projects.

Congress currently is working to finalize a “jobs bill” that includes provisions to restore highway
funding at previously budgeted levels through the end of 2010. This action would be funded by the
transfer of approximately $20 billion in interest owed from the General Fund to the Highway Trust
Fund. If passed, this legislation would be an important first step on the path to long-term highway
funding stability that will occur with the ultimate passage of a multi-year highway bill.

Page 7




There is significant need for additional and ongoing investments in the nation’s infrastructure. In
2009, a report by the American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) gave our nation’s infrastructure
an overall grade of “D” and estimated that an investment of $2.2 trillion over a five-year period
is needed for improvements. While the needs are clear, the source of funding for infrastructure
improvements is not. In its report, the ASCE suggests that all levels of government, owners and
users need to renew their commitment to infrastructure investments in all categories and that all
available financing options should be explored and debated.

The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (ARRA) was signed into law on February 17, 2009
to create jobs and restore economic growth through, among other things, the modernization of
America’s infrastructure and improving its energy resources. Included in the $787 billion of
economic stimulus funding is $50 to $60 billion of heavy construction, including $27.5 billion for
highways and bridges. This federal funding for highways and bridges, unlike typical federal funding
programs for infrastructure, will not require states to provide matching funds. The nature of the
projects that are being funded by ARRA generally will require considerable quantities of
aggregates. Also, we expect construction activity will increase due to spending allocated to the
following areas: $1.1 billion for airports; $8.4 billion for mass transit; $8.0 billion for high
speed rail; $4.6 billion for the Army Corps of Engineers; $6.0 billion for water and sewer
projects; and $4.2 billion for United States Department of Defense facilities. Other funding and
tax relief that could generate additional demand for our products includes $6.4 billion to clean
nuclear weapon sites; $6.0 billion to subsidize loans for renewable energy; $20.0 billion for
renewable energy tax incentives; $6.3 billion to states for energy efficiency and clean energy
grants; $8.8 billion for the renovation of schools; and $6.6 billion for a first time homebuyer
credit of $8,000.

Economic stimulus funds of $27.5 billion designated for highway projects under ARRA buoyed
contract awards for highways in the second half of 2009. Through December 2009, the Federal Highway
Administration reported approximately $15 billion of stimulus-related highway projects under
construction with $5.6 billion of these stimulus funds having been paid to contractors for work
performed. During this same period, Vulcan-served states, which were apportioned 55% more funds
than other states, lagged the rest of the country in awarding and starting stimulus-related highway
construction projects. These differences in awarding projects and spending patterns result in part
from the types of projects planned and the proportion sub-allocated to metropolitan planning
organizations where project planning and execution can be more complicated and time consuming.

Despite the failure of Congress to pass a fully-funded extension of SAFETEA-LU, the previous
highway authorization that expired on September 30, 2009, contract awards for highways in the
fourth quarter increased 9% from the same period in the prior year. Moreover, contract awards for
highway projects in Vulcan-served states increased 13% from the prior year fourth quarter versus a
2% increase in other states. We are encouraged by the increased award activity and are optimistic
that stimulus-related highway projects in Vulcan-served states, after a slow start, are now moving
forward and will increase demand for our products in 2010.

Our available production capacity and ongoing efforts to improve cash margins position Vulcan to
participate efficiently and effectively in the $50 to $60 billion of stimulus-related heavy
construction, including significant remaining portions of the $27.5 billion for highways and
bridges. We expect 2010 to be the largest year of stimulus-related highway demand for our products,
followed by another solid year in 2011.

Private sector

This market includes both nonresidential buildings and residential construction and is more
cyclical than public construction. In 2009, privately-funded construction accounted for 50% of our
total aggregates shipments.

Private nonresidential construction includes a wide array of project types and generally is more
aggregates intensive per dollar of construction spending than residential construction but less
aggregates intensive than public construction. Overall demand in private nonresidential
construction is generally driven by job growth, vacancy rates, private infrastructure needs and
demographic trends. The growth of the private workforce creates a demand for offices, hotels and
restaurants. Likewise, population growth generates demand for stores, shopping centers, warehouses
and parking decks as well as hospitals, churches and entertainment facilities. Large industrial
projects, such as a new manufacturing facility, can increase the need for other manufacturing
plants to supply parts and assemblies. Construction activity in this end market is influenced by a
firm’s ability to finance a project and the cost of such financing.

Page 8




The majority of residential construction is for single-family houses with the remainder consisting
of multi-family construction (i.e., two family houses, apartment buildings and condominiums).
Public housing comprises a small portion of the housing demand. Household formations in Vulcan’s
markets have grown faster than the U.S. as a whole in the last 10 years. During that time, U.S.
household growth was only 11% compared to 14% in our markets. Construction activity in this end
market is influenced by the cost and availability of mortgage financing. Demand for our products
generally occurs early in the infrastructure phase of residential construction and later as part of
driveways or parking lots.

U.S. housing starts peaked in 2005 at just over 2 million units. By the end of 2009, housing starts
had declined to approximately 600,000 units, a 70% decline from the most recent peak and well below
prior historical lows of approximately 1 million units annually. Multi-family starts have remained
weak. However, in November 2009, single-family housing starts increased 28% as compared to the same
period in 2008, breaking a string of 43 consecutive months of year-over-year declines. We believe
this data, while not necessarily reflective of a long-term trend, is encouraging. Lower home
prices, attractive mortgage interest rates and fewer existing homes for sale provide some optimism
in single-family housing construction in 2010 and beyond.

Consistent with past cycles of private sector construction, private nonresidential construction
remained strong after residential construction peaked in 2005. However, in late 2007, contract
awards for nonresidential buildings peaked. In 2008, contract awards in the U.S. declined 24% from
the prior year, and in 2009 fell sharply, declining 56% from 2008 levels. Contract awards for
stores and office buildings were the weakest categories of nonresidential construction in 2009,
declining more than 60% from the prior year.

Other markets

We sell ballast to railroads for construction and maintenance of railroad track. We also sell
riprap and jetty stone for erosion control along waterways. In addition, stone also can be used as
a feedstock for cement and lime plants and for making a variety of adhesives, fillers and
extenders. Coal-burning power plants use limestone in scrubbers to reduce harmful emissions.
Limestone that is crushed to a fine powder also can be sold as agricultural lime.

Our competitive advantage

We are the largest producer of construction aggregates in the United States. The aggregates
market is highly fragmented with many small, independent producers. Therefore, depending on the
market, we may compete with large national or regional firms as well as relatively small local
producers. Since construction aggregates are expensive to transport relative to their value,
markets generally are local in nature. Thus, the cost to deliver product to the location where it
is used is an important competitive factor.

DEMOGRAPHIC TRENDS — 2010 TO 2020

Forecasted compound annual growth rate



Source: Woods & Poole Economics and Moody’s Economy.com

We focus on serving metropolitan areas that demographers expect will experience the largest
absolute growth in population in the future. A market often consists of a single metropolitan area
or one or more counties where

Page 9




transportation from the producing location to the customer is by
truck only. Approximately 84% of our total aggregates shipments are delivered locally by truck.
Sales yards and other distribution facilities located on waterways and rail lines allow us to reach
markets that do not have locally available sources of aggregates.

Zoning and permitting regulations in some markets have made it increasingly difficult to expand
existing quarries or to develop new quarries. Any such regulations, while potentially curtailing
expansion in certain areas, could also increase the value of our reserves at existing locations.

We sell a relatively small amount of construction aggregates outside of the United States
principally in the areas surrounding our large quarry on the Yucatan Peninsula in Mexico.
Non-domestic sales and long-lived assets outside the United States are reported in Note 15 to the
consolidated financial statements in Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”

ASPHALT MIX AND CONCRETE

We produce and sell asphalt mix and ready-mixed concrete primarily in our mid-Atlantic,
Florida, southwestern and western markets. Additionally, we produce and sell in a limited number of
these markets other concrete products such as block, prestressed and precast beams, and resell
purchased building materials for use with ready-mixed concrete and concrete block.

This segment relies on our reserves of aggregates, functioning essentially as a customer to our
aggregates operations or as a means of distributing products produced by our aggregates and cement
businesses. Aggregates are a major component in asphalt mix and in ready-mixed concrete, comprising
approximately 95% of asphalt mix by weight and 78% of ready-mixed concrete by weight. Our Asphalt
mix and Concrete segment is almost wholly supplied with its aggregates requirements from our
Aggregates segment. These product transfers are made at local market prices for the particular
grade and quality of material required.

Customers for our Asphalt mix and Concrete segment are generally served locally from our production
facilities or by truck. Because ready-mixed concrete and asphalt mix harden rapidly, delivery
typically is confined to a radius of approximately 20 to 25 miles from the producing facility. Our
Asphalt mix and Concrete segment constituted approximately 30% of our sales dollars before the
elimination of intersegment sales in 2009, compared to 32% in 2008 and 24% in 2007.

Ready-mixed concrete production also requires cement. In the Florida market, cement requirements
for ready-mixed concrete production is supplied substantially by our Cement segment. In other
markets, we purchase cement from third-party suppliers. The asphalt production process requires
liquid asphalt, which we purchase entirely from third-party producers. We do not anticipate any
material difficulties in obtaining the raw materials necessary for this segment to operate.

CEMENT

Our Newberry, Florida cement plant produces Portland and masonry cement that we sell in both
bulk form and bags to the concrete products industry. Our Tampa, Florida facility imports and
exports cement and slag. Some of the imported cement is resold, and the balance of the cement is
blended, bagged, or reprocessed into specialty cements that are then sold. The slag is ground and
sold in blended or unblended form. Our Port Manatee, Florida facility imports cement clinker that
is ground into bulk cement and sold. Our Brooksville, Florida plant produces calcium products for
the animal feed, paint, plastics and joint compound industries.

The Cement segment’s largest single customer is our ready-mixed concrete operations within the
Asphalt mix and Concrete segment.

Page 10




During 2009, we substantially completed the project to expand our Newberry cement facility to
double its production capacity to 1.6 million tons per year. This plant is supplied by limestone
mined at the facility. These limestone reserves total 193.9 million tons. The new capacity is
expected to become fully operational in 2010.

Our Brooksville calcium facility is supplied with high quality calcium carbonate material mined at
the Brooksville quarry. The calcium carbonate reserves at this quarry total approximately 6.6
million tons.

OTHER BUSINESS RELATED ITEMS

Seasonality and cyclical nature of our business

Almost all our products are produced and consumed outdoors. Our financial results for any
quarter do not necessarily indicate the results expected for the year because seasonal changes and
other weather-related conditions can affect the production and sales volumes of our products.
Normally, the highest sales and earnings are in the third quarter and the lowest are in the first
quarter. Further, our sales and earnings are sensitive to national, regional and local economic
conditions and particularly to cyclical swings in construction spending, primarily in the private
sector. The levels of construction spending are affected by changing interest rates, and
demographic and population fluctuations.

Customers

No material part of our business is dependent upon one or a few customers, the loss of which
would have a material adverse effect on our business. In 2009, our top five customers accounted for
4.2% of our total revenues (excluding internal sales), and no single customer accounted for more
than 1.3% of our total revenues. Our products typically are sold to private industry and not
directly to governmental entities. Although approximately 45% to 55% of our aggregates shipments
have historically gone into publicly funded construction, such as highways, airports and government
buildings, relatively insignificant sales are made directly to federal, state, county or municipal
governments/agencies. Therefore, although reductions in state and federal funding can curtail
publicly funded construction, our business is not directly subject to renegotiation of profits or
termination of contracts with state or federal governments.

Research and development costs

We conduct research and development and technical service activities at our Technical Service
Center in Birmingham, Alabama. In general, these efforts are directed toward new and more efficient
uses of our products and in supporting customers in pursuing the most efficient use of our
products. We spent $1.5 million in 2009 and 2008 and $1.6 million in 2007 on research and
development activities.

Environmental costs and governmental regulation

Our operations are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the
environment and to health and safety, including noise, water discharge, air quality, dust control,
zoning and permitting. We estimate that capital expenditures for environmental control facilities
in 2010 and 2011 will be approximately $8.1 million and $7.2 million, respectively.

Frequently we are required by state and local regulations or contractual obligations to reclaim our
former mining sites. These reclamation liabilities are recorded in our financial statements as a
liability at the time the obligation arises. The fair value of such obligations is capitalized and
depreciated over the estimated useful life of the owned or leased site. The liability is accreted
through charges to operating expenses. To determine the fair value, we estimate the cost for a
third party to perform the legally required reclamation, adjusted for inflation and risk and
including a reasonable profit margin. All reclamation obligations are reviewed at least annually.
For additional information regarding reclamation obligations (referred to in our financial
statements as asset retirement obligations), see Notes 1 and 17 to the consolidated financial
statements in Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” Reclaimed quarries often have
potential for use in commercial or residential development or as reservoirs or landfills. However,
no projected cash flows from these anticipated uses have been considered to offset or reduce the
estimated reclamation liability.

Page 11




Patents and trademarks

We do not own or have a license or other rights under any patents, trademarks or trade names
that are material to any of our reporting segments.

Other information regarding Vulcan

Vulcan is
a New Jersey corporation incorporated on February 14, 2007,
but its predecessor company was incorporated on September 27, 1956. Our principal sources of
energy are electricity, diesel fuel, natural gas and coal. We do not anticipate any difficulty in
obtaining sources of energy required for operation of any of our reporting segments (i.e.,
Aggregates, Asphalt mix and Concrete, and Cement).

As of January 1, 2010, we employed 8,227 people in the U.S., a reduction of 1,093 from January 1,
2009. Of these employees, 795 are represented by labor unions. We also employ 252 union hourly
employees in Mexico. We do not anticipate any significant issues with such unions in 2010.

We do not consider our backlog of orders to be material to, or a significant factor in, evaluating
and understanding our business.

INVESTOR INFORMATION

We make available on our website,www.vulcanmaterials.com, free of charge, copies of our
Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and
amendments to those reports filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the
“SEC”) pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as well as all
Forms 3, 4 and 5 filed with the SEC by our executive officers and directors, as soon as the filings
are made publicly available by the SEC on its EDGAR database(www.sec.gov). The public may read and
copy materials filed with the SEC at the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, NE,
Washington, D. C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference
Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-732-0330. In addition to accessing copies of our reports online,
you may request a copy of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, including financial statements, by
writing to Jerry F. Perkins Jr., Secretary, Vulcan Materials Company, 1200 Urban Center Drive,
Birmingham, Alabama 35242.

We have a Business Conduct Policy applicable to all employees and directors. Additionally, we have
adopted a Code of Ethics for the CEO and Senior Financial Officers. Copies of the Business Conduct
Policy and the Code of Ethics are available on our website under the heading “Corporate
Governance.” If we make any amendment to, or waiver of, any provision of the Code of Ethics, we
will disclose such information on our website as well as through filings with the SEC. Our Board of
Directors has also adopted Corporate Governance Guidelines and charters for its Audit, Compensation
and Governance Committees that are designed to meet all applicable SEC and New York Stock Exchange
regulatory requirements. Each of these documents is available on our website under the heading,
“Corporate Governance,” or you may request a copy of any of these documents by writing to Jerry F.
Perkins Jr., Secretary, Vulcan Materials Company, 1200 Urban Center Drive, Birmingham, Alabama
35242.



