ITEM 1.Business



General



On January 14, 2016, we completed the acquisition of The Chubb Corporation, creating a global leader in property and casualty insurance. We have changed our name from ACE Limited to Chubb Limited and plan to adopt the Chubb name globally, although some subsidiaries may continue to use ACE as part of their names. All references to Chubb Limited throughout this Form 10-K refer to legacy ACE Limited, unless otherwise indicated.  The financial condition and results of operations presented herein are those of legacy ACE Limited and its subsidiaries and do not include the financial conditions and results of operations of legacy Chubb Corporation and its subsidiaries.



Chubb Limited is the Swiss-incorporated holding company of the Chubb Group of Companies. Chubb Limited, which is headquartered in Zurich, Switzerland, and its direct and indirect subsidiaries (collectively, the Chubb Group of Companies, Chubb, we, us, or our) are a global insurance and reinsurance organization, serving the needs of a diverse group of clients worldwide. AtDecember 31, 2015, we had total assets of $102billion and shareholders’ equity of $29billion. Chubb was incorporated in 1985 at which time it opened its first business office in Bermuda and continues to maintain operations in Bermuda.



We offer commercial insurance products and service offerings such as risk management programs, loss control and engineering and complex claims management. We provide specialized insurance products ranging from Directors & Officers (D&O) and professional liability to various specialty-casualty and umbrella and excess casualty lines to niche areas such as aviation and energy. We also offer personal lines insurance coverage including homeowners, automobile, valuables, umbrella liability, and recreational marine products. In addition, we supply personal accident, supplemental health, and life insurance to individuals in select countries. We have grown our business through increased premium volume, expansion of product offerings and geographic reach, and the acquisition of other companies. During 2015, we acquired the Fireman's Fund Insurance Company high net worth personal lines business in the U.S., which included the renewal rights for new and existing business and reinsurance of all existing reserves. This business operates under our Insurance – North American P&C segment and the consolidated financial statements include the results of this business from the acquisition date.



With the acquisition of The Chubb Corporation we have become a global P&C leader, with highly complementary business lines, distribution channels, customer segments and underwriting skills. In the U.S., where The Chubb Corporation has a substantial presence, the acquisition makes us a leading insurer of business, from the large corporate segment to the middle market, with a broad variety of coverages. Together we have become one of the largest commercial insurers in the U.S.  Internationally, where legacy ACE is a truly global insurer with extensive presence in 54 countries, The Chubb Corporation’s operations in 25 markets are expected to add to our presence and capabilities and position us to better pursue important market opportunities globally.  We expect the combined company to be a top-tier leader in a number of global specialty and traditional products such as professional lines, risk management, workers compensation, accident and health (A&H) and other property and general casualty lines.



Refer to Note2to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our acquisitions.



AtDecember 31, 2015, we employed approximately 22,000 people. We believe that employee relations are satisfactory.



We make available free of charge through our website (investors.chubb.com, under Financials) our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, if any, filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been electronically filed with or furnished to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Also available through our website (under Investor Information / Corporate Governance) are our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Conduct, and Charters for the Committees of our Board of Directors (the Board). Printed documents are available by contacting our Investor Relations Department (Telephone: +1 (441) 299-9283, E-mail: investorrelations@chubb.com).



We also use our website as a means of disclosing material, non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under SEC Regulation FD (Fair Disclosure). Accordingly, investors should monitor the Investor Information portion of our website, in addition to following our press releases, SEC filings, and public conference calls and webcasts. The information contained on, or that may be accessed through, our website is not incorporated by reference into, and is not a part of, this









report. The public may also read and copy any materials Chubb files with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549 or by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.





Customers

For most commercial lines of business we offer, insureds typically use the services of an insurance broker or agent. An insurance broker acts as an agent for the insureds, offering advice on the types and amount of insurance to purchase and also assisting in the negotiation of price and terms and conditions. We obtain business from the local and major international insurance brokers and typically pay a commission to brokers for any business accepted and bound. Loss of all or a substantial portion of the business provided by one or more of these brokers could have a material adverse effect on our business. In our opinion, no material part of our business is dependent upon a single insured or group of insureds. We do not believe that the loss of any one insured would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations, and no one insured or group of affiliated insureds account for as much as 10 percent of our total revenues.





Competition

Competition in the insurance and reinsurance marketplace is substantial. Competitors include other stock companies, mutual companies, alternative risk sharing groups (such as group captives and catastrophe pools), and other underwriting organizations. Competitors sell through various distribution channels and business models, across a broad array of product lines, and with a high level of variation regarding geographic, marketing, and customer segmentation. We compete for business not only on the basis of price but also on the basis of availability of coverage desired by customers and quality of service. Our ability to compete is dependent on a number of factors, particularly our ability to maintain the appropriate financial strength ratings as assigned by independent rating agencies. Our broad market capabilities in personal, commercial, specialty, and A&H lines made available by our underwriting expertise, business infrastructure, and global presence, define our competitive advantage. Our strong balance sheet is attractive to businesses, and our strong capital position and global platform affords us opportunities for growth not available to smaller, less diversified insurance companies. Refer to “Segment Information” for competitive environment by segment.





Trademarks and Trade Names

Various trademarks and trade names we use protect names of certain products and services we offer and are important to the extent they provide goodwill and name recognition in the insurance industry. We use commercially reasonable efforts to protect these proprietary rights, including various trade secret and trademark laws. We intend to retain material trademark rights in perpetuity, so long as it satisfies the use and registration requirements of applicable countries. One or more of the trademarks and trade names could be material to our ability to sell our products and services. We have taken appropriate steps to protect our ownership of key names, and we believe it is unlikely that anyone would be able to prevent us from using names in places or circumstances material to our operations.





Segment Information

Through December 31, 2015, we operated through five business segments. The following table presents net premiums earned (NPE) by segment:

Years Ended December 31(in millions of U.S. dollars, except for percentages)2015 Net Premiums Earned% of Total2014 Net Premiums Earned% of Total2013 Net Premiums Earned% of TotalInsurance – North American P&C$6,58238%$6,10735%$5,72134%Insurance – North American Agriculture1,3648%1,5269%1,67810%Insurance – Overseas General6,47138%6,80539%6,33338%Global Reinsurance8495%1,0266%9766%Life1,94711%1,96211%1,90512%Total$17,213100%$17,426100%$16,613100%



Additional financial information about our segments, including net premiums earned by geographic region, is included in

Note16to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

















Insurance – North American P&C (38 percentof2015Consolidated NPE)



Overview

The Insurance – North American P&C segment comprises operations in the U.S., Canada, and Bermuda. This segment includes:

•Our retail divisions: ACE USA (including ACE Canada), ACE Commercial Risk Services, and ACE Private Risk Services, which includes the Fireman’s Fund high net worth personal lines business acquired effective April 1, 2015

•Our wholesale and specialty divisions: ACE Westchester and ACE Bermuda

•Various run-off operations, including Brandywine Holdings Corporation (Brandywine)



Products and Distribution

ACE USA, the segment's largest operation, represented 62percent of Insurance – North American P&C's net premiums earned in2015. ACE USA provides a broad array of traditional and specialty P&C, A&H, and risk management products and services to a diverse group of North American commercial and non-commercial enterprises and consumers. ACE USA distributes its insurance products primarily through a limited number of retail brokers. In addition to using brokers, certain products are also distributed through general agents, independent agents, managing general agents (MGA), managing general underwriters, alliances, affinity groups, and direct marketing operations. Products and services offered include property, general liability, umbrella and excess liability, workers' compensation, commercial marine, automobile liability, professional lines D&O and errors and omissions (E&O), surety, medical liability, environmental, inland marine, aerospace, A&H coverages, as well as claims and risk management products and services.



ACE USA's on-going operations are organized into the following distinct business units each offering specialized products and services targeted at specific niche markets:

•ACE Risk Management offers a range of customized risk management primary casualty products designed to help mid-size to large insureds, including national accounts, address the significant costs of financing and managing risk for workers’ compensation, general liability and automobile liability coverages. Within ACE Risk Management, ACE Financial Solutions (AFS) underwrites contractual indemnification policies in which AFS provides prospective coverage for loss events within the insured’s policy retention levels, and underwrites assumed loss portfolio transfer (LPT) contracts in which insured loss events have occurred prior to the inception of the contract. LPT contracts can cause significant variances to premiums, losses and loss expenses, and expense ratios in the periods in which they are written.

•ACE Foreign Casualty provides products which insure specific global operating risks of U.S.-based multinational companies and include deductible programs, captive programs, and paid or incurred loss retrospective plans for U.S.-based insured's foreign operations.

•ACE North America Property & Specialty Lines provide products and services including primary, quota share and excess all-risk insurance, risk management programs and services, commercial and inland marine products, and aerospace products.

•ACE Casualty Risk key coverages include umbrella and excess liability, environmental risk, and casualty programs for commercial construction related projects.

•ACE Professional Risk provides management liability and professional liability (D&O and E&O) products.

•ACE Surety offers a wide variety of surety products and specializes in underwriting both commercial and contract bonds and has the capacity for bond issuance on an international basis.

•ACE Canada (ACE USA's Canadian operations) offers a broad range of P&C products as well as life and A&H coverages.

•ACE Accident & Health products include employee benefit plans, occupational accident, student accident, and worldwide travel accident and global medical programs. With respect to products that include supplemental medical and hospital indemnity coverages, we typically pay fixed amounts for claims and are therefore insulated from rising health care costs.  ACE Accident & Health also provides specialty personal lines products, including credit card enhancement programs (identity theft, rental car collision damage waiver, trip travel, and purchase protection benefits) distributed through affinity groups.

•ACE Medical Risk offers a wide range of specialty liability products for the health care industry through licensed excess and surplus lines brokers. Products include primary coverages for professional liability and general liability for selected types of medical facilities, excess/umbrella liability for medical facilities, primary and excess coverages for products liability for biotechnology and specialty pharmaceutical companies, and liability insurance for human clinical trials.

•ESIS Inc. (ESIS), ACE USA's in-house third-party claims administrator, performs claims management and risk control services for domestic and international organizations as well as for the Insurance – North American P&C segment. ESIS services include comprehensive medical managed care; integrated disability services; pre-loss control and risk











management; and health, safety and environmental consulting; salvage and subrogation; and health care recovery services. The net results for ESIS are included in Insurance – North American P&C's administrative expenses.



ACE Commercial Risk Services provides comprehensive specialty product solutions and packaged plans to small and micro-sized companies in targeted industries that lend themselves to technology-assisted underwriting. Core products and services for small businesses include casualty insurance (including international casualty), environmental, inland marine, professional risk, disaster protection, vacant land and building, and claims and risk management services. Products are offered through wholesale, retail, program agent and alternative distribution channels. In addition, ACE Commercial Risk Services offers coverage for specialty programs through program agents.



ACE Private Risk Services provides high-value personal lines coverages for high net worth individuals and families in North America including homeowners, automobile, valuables (including fine art), umbrella liability, and recreational marine insurance offered through independent regional agents and brokers. During 2015, ACE Private Risk Services expanded its operations through the acquisition of the Fireman's Fund Insurance Company high net worth personal lines insurance business in the U.S.



ACE Westchester serves the market for business risks that tend to be hard to place due to unique or complex exposures. Products offered include wholesale excess and surplus lines property, casualty, environmental, professional liability, inland marine, and product recall coverages in North America.



ACE Bermuda, our original insurance company, provides commercial insurance products on an excess basis including excess liability, D&O, professional liability, property insurance, and political risk, the latter being written by Sovereign Risk Insurance Ltd., a wholly-owned managing agent. ACE Bermuda focuses on Fortune 1000 companies and targets risks that are generally low in frequency and high in severity. ACE Bermuda offers its products primarily through the Bermuda offices of major, internationally recognized insurance brokers.



The run-off operations do not actively sell insurance products, but are responsible for the management of certain existing policies and settlement of related claims.



Competitive Environment





Insurance – North American Agriculture (8 percentof2015Consolidated NPE)



Overview

The Insurance – North American Agriculture segment comprises our North American based businesses that provide a variety of coverages in the U.S. and Canada including crop insurance, primarily Multiple Peril Crop Insurance (MPCI) and crop-hail through Rain and Hail Insurance Service, Inc. (Rain and Hail) as well as farm and ranch and specialty P&C commercial insurance products and services through our ACE Agribusiness unit.



Products and Distribution

The Rain and Hail business provides comprehensive MPCI and crop-hail insurance, and the ACE Agribusiness offers farm and ranch coverages as well as specialty P&C coverages for companies that manufacture, process and distribute agriculture products. The MPCI program is offered in conjunction with the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA). The USDA's Risk Management Agency (RMA) sets the policy terms and conditions, rates and forms, and is also responsible for setting









compliance standards. As a participating company, we report all details of policies underwritten to the RMA and are party to a Standard Reinsurance Agreement (SRA). The SRA sets out the relationship between private insurance companies and the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation (FCIC) concerning the terms and conditions regarding the risks each will bear including the pro-rata and state stop-loss provisions which allow companies to limit the exposure of any one state or group of states on their underwriting results. In addition to the pro-rata and excess of loss reinsurance protections inherent in the SRA, we also purchase third-party proportional and stop-loss reinsurance for our MPCI business to reduce our exposure. We may also enter into crop derivative contracts to further manage our risk exposure. For additional information, refer to “Crop Insurance”, under Item 7.



Competitive Environment

Rain and Hail primarily operates in a federally regulated program where all approved providers offer the same product forms and rates through independent and/or captive agents. ACE Agribusiness competes against both national and regional competitors offering specialty P&C insurance coverages to companies that manufacture, process, and distribute agricultural products.





Insurance – Overseas General (38 percentof2015Consolidated NPE)



Overview

The Insurance – Overseas General segment comprises ACE International, ACE Global Markets (AGM) and the international supplemental A&H business of Combined Insurance. ACE International comprises our retail commercial P&C, A&H, and personal lines businesses serving territories outside the U.S., Bermuda, and Canada. AGM, our London-based international specialty and excess and surplus lines business, includes Lloyd's of London (Lloyd's) Syndicate 2488 (Syndicate 2488), a wholly-owned Chubb syndicate. Chubb provides funds at Lloyd's to support underwriting by Syndicate 2488, which is managed by ACE Underwriting Agencies Limited and has an underwriting capacity of £350 million for 2016. The reinsurance operation of AGM is included in the Global Reinsurance segment.



Products and Distribution



AGM offers products through its parallel distribution network via ACE European Group Limited (AEGL) and Syndicate 2488.  AGM uses Syndicate 2488 to underwrite P&C business on a global basis through Lloyd's worldwide licenses.  AGM uses AEGL to underwrite similar classes of business through its network of U.K. and European licenses, and in the U.S. where it is eligible to write excess and surplus lines business. Factors influencing the decision to place business with Syndicate 2488 or AEGL include licensing eligibilities, capitalization requirements, and client/broker preference. All business underwritten by AGM is accessed through registered brokers. The main lines of business include aviation, property, energy, professional lines, marine, financial lines, political risk, and A&H.



Combined Insurance uses an international sales force to distribute a wide range of supplemental A&H products including personal accident, short term disability, critical conditions and cancer aid, and hospital confinement/recovery. Most of the products are supplemental A&H products, primarily fixed-indemnity obligations, and are not subject directly to escalating medical cost inflation.











Competitive Environment

ACE International's primary competitors include U.S.-based companies with global operations, as well as non-U.S. global carriers and indigenous companies in regional and local markets. For the A&H lines of business, including those offered by Combined Insurance, locally based competitors include financial institutions and bank owned insurance subsidiaries.  Our international operations have the distinct advantage of being part of one of the few international insurance groups with a global network of licensed companies able to write policies on a locally admitted basis. The principal competitive factors that affect the international operations are underwriting expertise and pricing, relative operating efficiency, product differentiation, producer relations, and the quality of policyholder services. A competitive strength of our international operations is our global network and breadth of insurance programs, which assist individuals and business organizations to meet their risk management objectives, while also giving us the advantage of accessing local technical expertise, accomplishing a spread of risk, and offering a global network to service multinational accounts.



AGM is one of the preeminent international specialty insurers in London and is an established lead underwriter on a significant portion of the risks it underwrites for all lines of business. This leadership position allows AGM to set the policy terms and conditions of many of the policies written. All lines of business face competition, depending on the business class, from Lloyd's syndicates, the London market, and other major international insurers and reinsurers. Competition for international risks is also seen from domestic insurers in the country of origin of the insured. AGM differentiates itself from competitors through long standing experience in its product lines, its multiple insurance entities (Syndicate 2488 and AEGL), and the quality of its underwriting and claims service.





Global Reinsurance (5 percentof2015Consolidated NPE)



Overview

The Global Reinsurance segment represents Chubb's reinsurance operations comprising ACE Tempest Re Bermuda, ACE Tempest Re USA, ACE Tempest Re International, and ACE Tempest Re Canada. The Global Reinsurance segment also includes AGM's reinsurance operations. Global Reinsurance markets reinsurance products worldwide under the ACE Tempest Re brand name and provides solutions for small to mid-sized clients and multinational ceding companies including licensed reinsurance capabilities, property and workers' compensation catastrophe, loss-warranty, stop-loss cover, marine and aviation programs.



Products and Distribution

Global Reinsurance services clients globally through its major units. Major international brokers submit business to one or more of these units' underwriting teams who have built strong relationships with both key brokers and clients by providing a responsive, client-focused approach to risk assessment and pricing.



ACE Tempest Re Bermuda principally provides property catastrophe reinsurance on an excess of loss basis globally to insurers of commercial and personal property. Property catastrophe reinsurance is on an occurrence basis and protects a ceding company against an accumulation of losses covered by its issued insurance policies, arising from a common event or occurrence. ACE Tempest Re Bermuda underwrites reinsurance principally on an excess of loss basis, meaning that its exposure only arises after the ceding company's accumulated losses have exceeded the attachment point of the reinsurance policy. ACE Tempest Re Bermuda also writes other types of reinsurance on a limited basis for selected clients. Examples include proportional property where the reinsurer shares a proportional part of the premiums and losses of the ceding company and per risk excess of loss treaty reinsurance where coverage applies on a per risk basis rather than per event or aggregate basis, together with casualty (catastrophe workers' compensation) and specialty lines (crop and terrorism). ACE Tempest Re Bermuda's business is produced through reinsurance intermediaries.



ACE Tempest Re USA writes all lines of traditional and specialty P&C reinsurance, and surety and fidelity reinsurance for the North American market, principally on a treaty basis, with a focus on writing property per risk and casualty reinsurance. ACE Tempest Re USA underwrites reinsurance on both a proportional and excess of loss basis. This unit's diversified portfolio is produced through reinsurance intermediaries.



ACE Tempest Re International provides traditional and specialty P&C reinsurance to insurance companies worldwide, with emphasis on non-U.S. and Canadian risks. ACE Tempest Re International writes all lines of traditional and specialty reinsurance including property risk and property catastrophe, casualty, marine, aviation, and specialty through our London- and Zurich-based divisions. The London-based divisions of ACE Tempest Re International focus on the development of business sourced through London market brokers and, accordingly, write a diverse book of international business using Syndicate 2488 and AEGL. The Zurich-based division focuses on providing reinsurance to continental European insurers via continental European brokers while also serving Asian and Latin American markets. ACE Tempest Re International also includes our Shanghai, China









office which provides reinsurance coverage for Chinese-based risks. ACE Tempest Re International underwrites reinsurance on both a proportional and excess of loss basis.



ACE Tempest Re Canada offers a full array of traditional and specialty P&C, and Surety reinsurance to the Canadian market, including casualty, property risk and property catastrophe. ACE Tempest Re Canada provides coverage through its Canadian company platform and also offers clients access to Syndicate 2488. ACE Tempest Re Canada underwrites reinsurance on both a proportional and excess of loss basis.



Competitive Environment

The Global Reinsurance segment competes worldwide with major U.S. and non-U.S. reinsurers as well as reinsurance departments of numerous multi-line insurance organizations. In addition, over the last several years, capital markets participants have developed financial products intended to compete with traditional reinsurance. Additionally, government sponsored or backed catastrophe funds can affect demand for reinsurance. Global Reinsurance is considered a lead reinsurer and is typically involved in the negotiation and quotation of the terms and conditions of the majority of the contracts in which it participates. Global Reinsurance competes effectively in P&C markets worldwide because of its strong capital position, analytical capabilities and quality customer service, the leading role it plays in setting the terms, pricing, and conditions in negotiating contracts, and its customized approach to risk selection. The key competitors in our markets vary by geographic region and product line. An advantage of our international platform is that we are able to change our mix of business in response to changes in competitive conditions in the territories in which we operate. Our geographic reach is also sought by multinational ceding companies since all of our offices, with the exception of Bermuda, provide local reinsurance license capabilities which benefit our clients in dealing with country regulators.





Life (11 percentof2015Consolidated NPE)



Overview

The Life segment comprises ACE's international life operations (ACE Life), ACE Tempest Life Re (ACE Life Re), and the North American supplemental A&H and life business of Combined Insurance.



Products and Distribution



ACE Life Re's core business is a Bermuda-based operation which provides reinsurance to primary life insurers, focusing on guarantees included in certain fixed and variable annuity products and also on more traditional mortality reinsurance protection. ACE Life Re's U.S.-based traditional life reinsurance operation was discontinued for new business in January 2010. Since 2007, ACE Life Re has not quoted on new opportunities in the variable annuity reinsurance marketplace and our focus has been on managing the current portfolio of risk, both in the aggregate and on a contract basis. This business is managed with a long-term perspective and short-term earnings volatility is expected.



Combined Insurance distributes specialty supplemental A&H and life insurance products targeted to middle income consumers and businesses in the U.S. and Canada. Combined Insurance's substantial North American sales force distributes a wide range of supplemental accident and sickness insurance products, including personal accident, short-term disability, critical illness,









Medicare supplement products, and hospital confinement/recovery. Most of these products are primarily fixed-indemnity benefit obligations and are not directly subject to escalating medical cost inflation.



Competitive Environment

ACE Life's competition differs by location but generally includes multinational insurers, and in some locations, local insurers, joint ventures, or state-owned insurers. Chubb's financial strength and reputation as an entrepreneurial organization with a global presence gives ACE Life a strong base from which to compete. While ACE Life Re is not currently quoting on new opportunities in the variable annuity reinsurance marketplace, we continue to monitor developments in this market. Combined Insurance competes for A&H business in the U.S. against numerous A&H and life insurance companies across various industry segments.





Underwriting

Chubb is an underwriting company and we strive to emphasize quality of underwriting rather than volume of business or market share. Our underwriting strategy is to manage risk by employing consistent, disciplined pricing and risk selection. This, coupled with writing a number of less cyclical product lines, has helped us develop flexibility and stability of our business, and has allowed us to maintain a profitable book of business throughout market cycles. Clearly defined underwriting authorities, standards, and guidelines coupled with a strong underwriting audit function are in place in each of our local operations and global profit centers. Global product boards ensure consistency of approach and the establishment of best practices throughout the world. Our priority is to help ensure adherence to criteria for risk selection by maintaining high levels of experience and expertise in our underwriting staff. In addition, we employ a business review structure that helps ensure control of risk quality and conservative use of policy limits and terms and conditions. Underwriting discipline is at the heart of our operating philosophy.



Qualified actuaries in each region work closely with the underwriting teams to provide additional expertise in the underwriting process. We use internal and external data together with sophisticated analytical, catastrophe loss and risk modeling techniques to ensure an appropriate understanding of risk, including diversification and correlation effects, across different product lines and territories. This helps to ensure that losses are contained within our risk tolerance and appetite for individual product lines, businesses, and Chubb as a whole. Our use of such tools and data also reflects an understanding of their inherent limitations and uncertainties. We also purchase protection from third parties, including, but not limited to, reinsurance as a tool to diversify risk and limit the net loss potential of catastrophes and large or unusually hazardous risks. For additional information refer to "Risk Factors" under Item 1A, “Reinsurance Protection”, below, “Catastrophe Management” and “Natural Catastrophe Property Reinsurance Program”, under Item 7, and Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8.





Reinsurance Protection



A separate policy and process exists for captive reinsurance companies. Generally, these reinsurance companies are established by our clients or our clients have an interest in them. It is generally our policy to obtain collateral equal to the expected losses that may be ceded to the captive. Where appropriate, exceptions to the collateral requirement are granted but only after senior management review. Specific collateral guidelines and an exception process are in place for the Insurance – North American P&C and Insurance – Overseas General segments, both of which have credit management units evaluating the captive's credit quality and that of their parent company. The credit management units, working with actuaries, determine reasonable exposure estimates (collateral calculations), ensure receipt of collateral in an acceptable form, and coordinate collateral adjustments as and when needed. Financial reviews and expected loss evaluations are performed annually for active captive accounts and as









needed for run-off exposures. In addition to collateral, parental guarantees are often used to enhance the credit quality of the captive.



In general, we seek to place our reinsurance with highly rated companies with which we have a strong trading relationship. For additional information refer to “Catastrophe Management” and “Natural Catastrophe Property Reinsurance Program” under Item 7, and Note5to the Consolidated Financial Statements.





Unpaid Losses and Loss Expenses

December 31, 2015

.

During the loss settlement period, which can be many years in duration, additional facts regarding individual claims and trends often will become known. As these become apparent, case reserves may be adjusted by allocation from IBNR with or without any change in the overall reserve. In addition, the circumstances of individual claims or the application of statistical and actuarial methods to loss experience data may lead to the adjustment of the overall reserves upward or downward from time to time. Accordingly, the ultimate settlement of losses may be significantly greater than or less than reported loss and loss expense reserves.

We have considered asbestos and environmental (A&E) claims and claims expenses in establishing the liability for unpaid losses and loss expenses and have developed reserving methods which consider historical experience as well as incorporate new sources of data to estimate the ultimate losses arising from A&E exposures. The reserves for A&E claims and claims expenses represent management's best estimate of future loss and loss expense payments and recoveries that are expected to develop over the next several decades. We continuously monitor evolving case law and its effect on environmental and latent injury claims, we monitor A&E claims activity quarterly, and we perform a full reserve review annually.

For each product line, management, in conjunction with internal actuaries, develops a “best estimate” of the ultimate settlement value of the unpaid losses and loss expenses that it believes provides a reasonable estimate of the required reserve.  We evaluate our estimates of reserves quarterly in light of developing information. While we are unable at this time to determine whether additional reserves may be necessary in the future, we believe that our reserves for unpaid losses and loss expenses are adequate atDecember 31, 2015. Future additions to reserves, if needed, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. For additional information refer to “Critical Accounting Estimates – Unpaid losses and loss expenses”, under Item 7, and Note7to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8.

The “Analysis of Losses and Loss Expenses Development” table shown below presents, for each balance sheet date over the period 2005-2015, the gross and net loss and loss expense reserves recorded at the balance sheet date and subsequent net payments on the associated liabilities. The reserves represent the amount required for the estimated future settlement value of liabilities incurred at or prior to the balance sheet date and those estimates may change subsequent to the balance sheet date as new information emerges regarding the ultimate settlement value of the liability. Accordingly, the table also presents throughDecember 31, 2015, for each balance sheet date, the cumulative impact of subsequent valuations of the liabilities incurred at the original balance sheet date. The table is presented in accordance with SEC reporting requirements. This table should be interpreted with care by those not familiar with its format or those who are familiar with other triangulations arranged by origin year of loss such as accident or underwriting year rather than balance sheet date, as shown below. To clarify the interpretation of the table, we use the reserves established atDecember 31, 2005, in the following example.









The top two lines of the table show, for successive balance sheet dates, the gross and net unpaid losses and loss expenses recorded as provision for liabilities incurred at or prior to each balance sheet date. It can be seen that atDecember 31, 2005, a reserve of$20.5 billion, net of reinsurance, had been established.

The upper (paid) triangulation shows the net amounts paid as of periods subsequent to the balance sheet date. Hence in the2006financial year,$3.7 billionof payments were made on liabilities contemplated in theDecember 31, 2005reserve balance. At the end of the2015financial year, there were cumulative net payments of $13.7 billion on this block of liabilities.

The lower triangulation within the table shows the revised estimate of the net liability originally recorded at each balance sheet date as of the end of subsequent financial years. With the benefit of actual loss emergence and hindsight over the intervening period, the net liabilities incurred as ofDecember 31, 2005, are now estimated to be $19.5 billion, rather than the original estimate of $20.5 billion. This change includes the impact of adverse development on latent claims that we categorize as A&E covered under the National Indemnity Company (NICO) reinsurance treaties. Of the cumulative redundancy of $1.0 billion recognized in the ten years sinceDecember 31, 2005redundancy of $2.2 billion relates to non-latent claims and deficiency of $1.2 billion relates to latent claims. The redundancy of $957 millionwas identified and recorded as follows: $12 million redundant in 2006, $80 million redundant in 2007, $440 million redundant in 2008, $337 million redundant in 2009, $331 million redundant in 2010, $122 million redundant in 2011, $44 million deficient in 2012, $149 million deficient in 2013, $27 million deficient in 2014, and $145 million deficient in 2015. This development subsequent to the balance sheet date of valuation is referred to as prior period development.

Importantly, the cumulative deficiency or redundancy for different balance sheet dates are not independent and, therefore, should not be added together. In the last financial year, we revised our estimate of theDecember 31, 2005liabilities from$19,356 millionto $19,501 million. This adverse development of $145 million is also included in each column to the right of theDecember 31, 2005column to recognize that this additional amount was also required in the reserves established for each annual balance sheet date from December 31, 2006 toDecember 31, 2015.

The loss development table shows that our original estimate of the net unpaid loss and loss expense requirement atDecember 31, 2014, of$27.0 billionhas, with the benefit of actual loss emergence and hindsight, been revised to $26.5 billionatDecember 31, 2015. This favorable movement of $546 millionreflects prior period development and is the net result of a number of underlying movements both favorable and adverse. The key underlying movements are discussed in more detail in Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8.

The bottom lines of the table show the re-estimated amount of previously recorded gross liabilities atDecember 31, 2015, together with the change in reinsurance recoverable. Similar to the net liabilities, the cumulative redundancy or deficiency on the gross liability is the difference between the gross liability originally recorded and the re-estimated gross liability atDecember 31, 2015. For example, with respect to the gross unpaid loss and loss expenses of$35.1 billionforDecember 31, 2005, this gross liability was re-estimated to be $33.9 billion atDecember 31, 2015, resulting in the cumulative redundancy on the gross liability originally recorded for the2005balance sheet year of $1.2 billion.

We do not consider it appropriate to extrapolate future deficiencies or redundancies based upon the table, as conditions and trends that have affected development of the liability in the past may not necessarily recur in the future. We believe that our current estimates of net liabilities appropriately reflect our current knowledge of the business profile and the prevailing market, social, legal, and economic conditions while giving due consideration to historical trends and volatility evidenced in our markets over the longer term. The key issues and considerations involved in establishing our estimate of the net liabilities are discussed in more detail within the “Critical Accounting Estimates – Unpaid losses and loss expenses” section of Item 7.

The Unpaid losses and loss expense information for acquired businesses has been included in the table from the acquisition date forward:

•Combined Insurance (April 1, 2008);

•Jerneh Insurance Berhad (December 1, 2010);

•Rain and Hail (we acquired all of the outstanding common stock not previously owned by us on December 28, 2010);

•Penn Millers Holding Corporation (November 30, 2011);

•Rio Guayas Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros (December 28, 2011);

•PT Asuransi Jaya Proteksi (we acquired 80 percent on September 18, 2012 and our local partner acquired the remaining 20 percent on January 3, 2013);

•Fianzas Monterrey (April 1, 2013);

•ABA Seguros (May 2, 2013);

•The Siam Commercial Samaggi Insurance PCL (we and our local partner acquired 93.03 percent during the second quarter of 2014);

•The large corporate account P&C insurance business of Itaú Seguros, S.A. (October 31, 2014); and

•Fireman's Fund Insurance Company high net worth personal lines insurance business in the U.S. (April 1, 2015).













Analysis of Losses and Loss Expenses Development

Years Ended December 31

(in millions of                U.S. dollars)20052006200720082009201020112012201320142015

Gross unpaid losses$35,055$35,517$37,112$37,176$37,783$37,391$37,477$37,946$37,443$38,315$37,303

Net unpaid losses20,45822,00823,59224,24125,03825,24225,87526,54726,83127,00826,562

Net paid losses                                                                (cumulative) as of:

1 year later3,7114,0383,6284,4554,7244,6574,8945,0355,2605,612

2 years later6,4876,3566,0927,5267,5107,2817,7147,9698,245

3 years later7,9988,0628,3939,6909,4049,4249,97310,308

4 years later9,2699,7489,94911,11411,09711,10211,757

5 years later10,59710,82610,95112,50212,42812,544

6 years later11,42811,49611,98513,55613,493

7 years later11,95712,31212,76614,433

8 years later12,66412,97013,491

9 years later13,20913,587

10 years later13,745

Net liability                                                                           re-estimated as of:

End of year20,45822,00823,59224,24125,03825,24225,87526,54726,83127,00826,562

1 year later20,44621,79122,77823,65324,48124,68625,39626,01726,30426,462

2 years later20,36621,18822,15823,12723,80124,16724,88725,41125,686

3 years later19,92620,65021,59622,57623,36323,69024,29924,940

4 years later19,58920,08021,03722,18422,95523,09123,889

5 years later19,25819,61820,77321,91322,47622,805

6 years later19,13619,58420,76021,81022,420

7 years later19,18019,68420,66721,834

8 years later19,32919,64720,718

9 years later19,35619,705

10 years later19,501

Cumulative               redundancy/                     (deficiency) on net       unpaid losses9572,3032,8742,4072,6182,4371,9861,6071,145546

Cumulative deficiency related to A&E(1,239)(1,187)(1,158)(1,107)(1,024)(920)(821)(651)(457)(200)

Cumulative                   redundancy/           (deficiency)          excluding A&E2,1963,4904,0323,5143,6423,3572,8072,2581,602746

Gross unpaid losses35,05535,51737,11237,17637,78337,39137,47737,94637,44338,31537,303

Reinsurance                                       recoverable on                 unpaid losses14,59713,50913,52012,93512,74512,14911,60211,39910,61211,30710,741

Net unpaid losses20,45822,00823,59224,24125,03825,24225,87526,54726,83127,00826,562

Gross liability                   re-estimated33,90633,08233,56334,32034,34733,90934,68135,61435,84837,349

Reinsurance                     recoverable on                     unpaid losses14,40513,37712,84512,48611,92711,10410,79210,67410,16210,887

Net liability                         re-estimated19,50119,70520,71821,83422,42022,80523,88924,94025,68626,462

Cumulative                  redundancy/                   (deficiency) on                gross unpaid losses$1,149$2,435$3,549$2,856$3,436$3,482$2,796$2,332$1,595$966

The reference to “losses” in the table above refers to losses and loss expenses.











Reconciliation of Unpaid Losses and Loss Expenses

Net losses and loss expenses incurred for2015were$9.5 billion, compared with$9.6 billionin2014, and$9.3 billionin2013which includes$546 million,$527 million, and$530 millionof net favorable prior period development (PPD), respectively. Refer to Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a reconciliation of Unpaid losses and loss expenses and for additional information on PPD.





Investments

Our objective is to maximize investment income and total return while ensuring an appropriate level of liquidity and investment quality and diversification. As such, Chubb's investment portfolio is invested primarily in investment-grade fixed-income securities as measured by the major rating agencies. We do not allow leverage or complex credit structures in our investment portfolio.



The critical aspects of the investment process are controlled by ACE Asset Management, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Chubb. These aspects include asset allocation, portfolio and guideline design, risk management and oversight of external asset managers.  In this regard, ACE Asset Management:



•conducts formal asset allocation modeling for each of the Chubb subsidiaries, providing formal recommendations for the portfolio's structure;

•establishes recommended investment guidelines that are appropriate to the prescribed asset allocation targets;

•provides the analysis, evaluation, and selection of our external investment advisors;

•establishes and develops investment-related analytics to enhance portfolio engineering and risk control;

•monitors and aggregates the correlated risk of the overall investment portfolio; and

•provides governance over the investment process for each of our operating companies to ensure consistency of approach and adherence to investment guidelines.



Under our guidance and direction, external asset managers conduct security and sector selection and transaction execution. Use of multiple managers benefits Chubb in several ways – it provides us with operational and cost efficiencies, diversity of styles and approaches, innovations in investment research and credit and risk management, all of which enhance the risk adjusted returns of our portfolios.



ACE Asset Management determines the investment portfolio's allowable, targeted asset allocation and ranges for each of the segments. These asset allocation targets are derived from sophisticated asset and liability modeling that measures correlated histories of returns and volatility of returns. Allowable investment classes are further refined through analysis of our operating environment, including expected volatility of cash flows, potential impact on our capital position, as well as regulatory and rating agency considerations.



The Board has established a Risk & Finance Committee which helps execute the Board's supervisory responsibilities pertaining to enterprise risk management including investment risk. Under the overall supervision of the Risk & Finance Committee, Chubb's governance over investment management is rigorous and ongoing. Among its responsibilities, the Risk & Finance Committee of the Board:



•reviews and approves asset allocation targets and investment policy to ensure that it is consistent with our overall goals, strategies, and objectives;

•reviews and approves investment guidelines to ensure that appropriate levels of portfolio liquidity, credit quality, diversification, and volatility are maintained; and

•systematically reviews the portfolio's exposures including any potential violations of investment guidelines.



We have long-standing global credit limits for our entire portfolio across the organization and for individual obligors. Exposures are aggregated, monitored, and actively managed by our Global Credit Committee, comprising senior executives, including our Chief Financial Officer, our Chief Risk Officer, our Chief Investment Officer, and our Treasurer.



Within the guidelines and asset allocation parameters established by the Risk & Finance Committee, individual investment committees of the segments determine tactical asset allocation. Additionally, these committees review all investment-related activity that affects their operating company, including the selection of outside investment advisors, proposed asset allocation changes, and the systematic review of investment guidelines.



For additional information regarding the investment portfolio, including breakdowns of the sector and maturity distributions, refer to Note3to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8.













Regulation

Our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries conduct business globally, including in all 50 states of the United States and the District of Columbia. Our businesses in each of these jurisdictions are subject to varying degrees of regulation and supervision.  The laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are domiciled require among other things that these subsidiaries maintain minimum levels of statutory capital, surplus, and liquidity, meet solvency standards, and submit to periodic examinations of their financial condition. The complex regulatory environments in which Chubb operates are subject to change and are regularly monitored.



Group Supervision

In September 2012, pursuant to legislation passed in the state of Pennsylvania, U.S., based on the Model Insurance Holding Company System Regulatory Act (model law) adopted by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC), the Pennsylvania Insurance Department (Department), in consultation with other insurance regulatory bodies that oversee Chubb's insurance activities, convened the first Chubb Group Supervisory College (College). Regulators from approximately 15 jurisdictions worldwide were invited to participate in the College, the purpose of which was to initiate establishment of, and to clarify the membership, participation, functionality, and ongoing activities in, the College with respect to group-wide supervision of Chubb. Representatives from approximately ten jurisdictions attended the College in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, during which the supervisors reviewed, without adverse comment, information on our group governance, risk assessment and management, capital adequacy, and material intercompany transactions. On October 19, 2012, the Department, in cooperation with the other supervisory college regulators, published a notice of its determination that it is the appropriate group-wide supervisor for Chubb.



In September 2014, the Department, in consultation with other insurance regulatory bodies that oversee Chubb's insurance activities, convened the second College. Representatives from approximately ten jurisdictions attended the College in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, during which the supervisors reviewed, without adverse comment, information on our group governance, compliance, risk assessment and management, and capital adequacy.



The Department has circulated an invitation to various regulators to participate in the third College to be held in Lafayette Hill, Pennsylvania in September 2016.

The following is an overview of regulations for our operations in Switzerland, the U.S., Bermuda, and other international locations.



Swiss Operations

The Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority (FINMA) has the discretion to supervise Chubb on a group-wide basis. However, FINMA acknowledges the Department's assumption of group supervision over us.



In 2008, we formed ACE Insurance (Switzerland) Limited which offers property and casualty insurance to Swiss companies, A&H insurance for individuals of Swiss Corporations as well as reinsurance predominantly in Continental Europe. We have also formed a reinsurance subsidiary named ACE Reinsurance (Switzerland) Limited, which we operate as primarily a provider of reinsurance to Chubb entities. Both companies are licensed and governed by FINMA.



U.S. Operations

Our U.S. insurance subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation and supervision by the states in which they do business. The laws of the various states establish departments of insurance with broad authority to regulate, among other things: the standards of solvency that must be met and maintained, the licensing of insurers and their producers, approval of policy forms and rates, the nature of and limitations on investments, restrictions on the size of the risks which may be insured under a single policy, deposits of securities for the benefit of policyholders, requirements for the acceptability of reinsurers, periodic examinations of the affairs of insurance companies, the form and content of reports of financial condition required to be filed, and the adequacy of reserves for unearned premiums, losses, and other purposes.



Our U.S. insurance subsidiaries are required to file detailed annual and quarterly reports with state insurance regulators. In addition, our U.S. insurance subsidiaries' operations and financial records are subject to examination at regular intervals by state regulators.



All states have enacted legislation that regulates insurance holding companies. This legislation provides that each insurance company in the insurance holding company system (system) is required to register with the insurance department of its state of domicile and furnish information concerning the operations of companies within the system that may materially affect the











operations, management, or financial condition of the insurers within the system. We are required to file an annual enterprise risk report with the Department, identifying the material risks within our system that could pose enterprise risk to the insurance subsidiaries in the system. All transactions within a system must be fair and equitable. Notice to the insurance departments is required prior to the consummation of transactions affecting the ownership or control of an insurer and of certain material transactions between an insurer and an entity in its system. In addition, certain transactions may not be consummated without the department's prior approval.



We are also required to file an annual summary report with the Department, reflecting our internal assessment of material risks associated with our current business plan and the sufficiency of our capital resources to support those risks.



Statutory surplus is an important measure used by the regulators and rating agencies to assess our U.S. insurance subsidiaries' ability to support business operations and provide dividend capacity. Our U.S. insurance subsidiaries are subject to various state statutory and regulatory restrictions that limit the amount of dividends that may be paid without prior approval from regulatory authorities. These restrictions differ by state, but are generally based on calculations incorporating statutory surplus, statutory net income, and/or investment income.



The NAIC has a risk-based capital requirement for P&C insurance companies. This risk-based capital formula is used by many state regulatory authorities to identify insurance companies that may be undercapitalized and which merit further regulatory attention. These requirements are designed to monitor capital adequacy using a formula that prescribes a series of risk measurements to determine a minimum capital amount for an insurance company, based on the profile of the individual company. The ratio of a company's actual policyholder surplus to its minimum capital requirement will determine whether any state regulatory action is required. There are progressive risk-based capital failure levels that trigger more stringent regulatory action. If an insurer's policyholders' surplus falls below the Mandatory Control Level (70 percent of the Authorized Control Level, as defined by the NAIC), the relevant insurance commissioner is required to place the insurer under regulatory control.



However, an insurance commissioner may allow a P&C company operating below the Mandatory Control Level that is writing no business and is running off its existing business to continue its run-off. Brandywine is running off its liabilities consistent with the terms of an order issued by the Insurance Commissioner of Pennsylvania. This includes periodic reporting obligations to the Department.



Government intervention has also occurred in the insurance and reinsurance markets in relation to terrorism coverage in the U.S. (and through industry initiatives in other countries). The U.S. Terrorism Risk Insurance Act (TRIA), which was enacted in 2002 to ensure the availability of insurance coverage for certain types of terrorist acts in the U.S., was extended in 2015 for six years, through December 31, 2020, and applies to certain of our operations.



From time to time, Chubb and its subsidiaries and affiliates receive inquiries from state agencies and attorneys general, with which we generally comply, seeking information concerning business practices, such as underwriting and non-traditional or loss mitigation insurance products. Moreover, many recent factors, such as consequences of and reactions to industry and economic conditions and focus on domestic issues, have contributed to the potential for change in the legal and regulatory framework applicable to Chubb's U.S. operations and businesses. We cannot assure that changes in laws or investigative or enforcement activities in the various states in the U.S. will not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, or business practices.



Bermuda Operations

The Insurance Act 1978 of Bermuda and related regulations, as amended (the Insurance Act), regulates the insurance business of our Bermuda insurance subsidiaries and provides that no person may carry on any insurance business in or from within Bermuda unless registered as an insurer by the Bermuda Monetary Authority (BMA). The Insurance Act imposes solvency and liquidity standards and auditing and reporting requirements on Bermuda insurance companies and grants the BMA powers to supervise, investigate, and intervene in the affairs of insurance companies. Our Bermuda domiciled insurance subsidiaries must prepare annual statutory financial statements and file them with the BMA, and certain subsidiaries must file audited annual financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (GAAP), International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), or any such other generally accepted accounting principles as the BMA may recognize. These audited financials are made public by the BMA. The Insurance Act prescribes rules for the preparation and content of the statutory financial statements that require Chubb subsidiaries to give detailed information and analyses regarding premiums, claims, reinsurance, and investments.













The BMA established risk-based regulatory capital adequacy and solvency margin requirements for Bermuda insurers that mandate that a Class E (long-term business),  Class 3A (general business), and Class 4 insurer's Enhanced Capital Requirement (ECR) be calculated by either (a) the BMA model, or (b) an internal capital model which the BMA has approved for use for this purpose. ACE's Bermuda insurance subsidiaries use the BMA model in calculating their solvency requirements.



The risk-based regulatory capital adequacy and solvency margin regime provides a risk-based capital model, termed the Bermuda Solvency Capital Requirement (BSCR), as a tool to assist the BMA both in measuring risk and in determining appropriate levels of capitalization. The BSCR employs a standard mathematical model that correlates the risk underwritten by Bermuda insurers to their capital. The BSCR framework applies a standard measurement format to the risk associated with an insurer's assets, liabilities, and premiums, including a formula to take account of catastrophe risk exposure. In order to minimize the risk of a shortfall in capital arising from an unexpected adverse deviation and in moving towards the implementation of a risk based capital approach, the BMA has established a threshold capital level, (termed the Target Capital Level (TCL)), set at 120 percent of ECR, that serves as an early warning tool for the BMA and failure to maintain statutory capital at least equal to the TCL will likely result in increased BMA regulatory oversight.



Under the Insurance Act, Class 4 insurers are prohibited from declaring or paying any dividends of more than 25 percent of total statutory capital and surplus, as shown in its previous financial year statutory balance sheet, unless at least seven days before payment of the dividends, it files with the BMA an affidavit that it will continue to meet its required solvency margins. In addition, Class 4, 3A, and E insurers must obtain the BMA's prior approval before reducing total statutory capital, as shown in its previous financial year statutory balance sheet, by 15 percent or more. Furthermore, Bermuda insurance subsidiaries may only declare and pay a dividend from retained earnings and a dividend or distribution from contributed surplus if it has no reasonable grounds for believing that it is, or would after the payment be, unable to pay its liabilities as they become due, or if the realizable value of its assets would not be less than the aggregate of its liabilities and its issued share capital and share premium accounts.



During 2015, the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority (EIOPA) completed its review of the BMA’s proposed supervisory regime with respect to Bermuda’s commercial insurers (i.e., those registered as Class 3A, 3B or 4, C, D or E).  EIOPA concluded that the BMA’s proposed supervisory regime was broadly equivalent to the European Union (EU) directive which provides new rules with respect to capital requirements, governance, risk management and disclosure for (re)insurers.  The EU directive is more commonly known as “Solvency II”.  EIOPA’s views on Bermuda’s Solvency II equivalence were formally adopted by the European Commission via a delegated act on November 26, 2015 (subject to a three-month review period by the European Parliament and European Council).  Once the delegated act comes into effect, the BMA’s revised supervisory regime will be effective retroactively to January 1, 2016.  Our Bermuda commercial (re)insurance subsidiaries would submit their first annual filings under the new requirements in 2017.  We do not believe the new regulations will have a material effect on our capital management strategies, results of operations or financial condition.



Other International Operations

The extent of insurance regulation varies significantly among the countries in which non-U.S. Chubb operations conduct business. While each country imposes licensing, solvency, auditing, and financial reporting requirements, the type and extent of the requirements differ substantially.  For example:

•in some countries, insurers are required to prepare and file monthly and/or quarterly financial reports, and in others, only annual reports;

•some regulators require intermediaries to be involved in the sale of insurance products, whereas other regulators permit direct sales contact between the insurer and the customer;

•the extent of restrictions imposed upon an insurer's use of local and offshore reinsurance vary;

•policy form filing and rate regulation vary by country;

•the frequency of contact and periodic on-site examinations by insurance authorities differ by country; and

•regulatory requirements relating to insurer dividend policies vary by country.



Significant variations can also be found in the size, structure, and resources of the local regulatory departments that oversee insurance activities. Certain regulators prefer close relationships with all subject insurers and others operate a risk-based approach.













Chubb operates in some countries through subsidiaries and in some countries through branches of subsidiaries. Local capital requirements applicable to a subsidiary generally include its branches. Certain Chubb companies are jointly owned with local companies to comply with legal requirements for local ownership. Other legal requirements include discretionary licensing procedures, compulsory cessions of reinsurance, local retention of funds and records, data privacy and protection program requirements, and foreign exchange controls. Chubb's international companies are also subject to multinational application of certain U.S. laws.



There are various regulatory bodies and initiatives that impact Chubb in multiple international jurisdictions and the potential for significant impact on Chubb could be heightened as a result of recent industry and economic developments. In particular, the European Union's (EU) executive body, the European Commission, implemented a new capital adequacy and risk management regulations for the European insurance industry, known as Solvency II, which aims to establish a revised set of EU-wide capital requirements and risk management standards that replaced the Solvency I requirements. The Solvency II requirements were effective January 1, 2016 for our European operations.



Under Solvency II, it is possible that a U.S. domiciled parent company of a subsidiary domiciled in the EU could be subject to certain requirements if determined by the regulator that its subsidiary's capital position is dependent on the U.S. parent company that is not subject to requirements deemed to be ''equivalent'' to Solvency II. We do not currently expect that our capital management strategies, results of operations, and financial condition will be materially affected by the Solvency II requirements.





Enterprise Risk Management

As an insurer, Chubb is in the business of profitably managing risk for its customers. Since risk management must permeate an organization conducting a global insurance business, we have an established Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) framework that is integrated into management of our businesses and is led by Chubb's senior management.  As a result, ERM is a part of the day-to-day management of Chubb and its operations.

Our global ERM framework is broadly multi-disciplinary and its objectives include:



•External Risks: identify, analyze, quantify, and where possible, mitigate significant external risks that could materially hamper the financial condition of Chubb and/or the achievement of corporate business objectives over the next 36 months;

•Exposure Accumulations: identify and quantify the accumulation of exposure to individual counterparties, products or industry sectors, particularly those that materially extend across or correlate between business units or divisions and/or the balance sheet;

•Risk Modeling: develop and use various data-sets, analytical tools, metrics and processes (including economic capital models and advanced analytics) that help division and corporate leaders make informed underwriting, portfolio management and risk management decisions within a consistent risk/reward framework;

•Governance: establish and coordinate risk guidelines that reflect the corporate appetite for risk, monitor exposure accumulations relative to established guidelines, and ensure effective internal risk management communication up to management and the Board, down to the various business units and legal entities, and across the firm; and

•Disclosure: develop protocols and processes for risk-related disclosure internally as well as externally to rating agencies, regulators, shareholders and analysts.



Chubb Group's Risk and Underwriting Committee (RUC) reports to and assists the Chief Executive Officer in the oversight and review of the ERM framework which covers the processes and guidelines used to manage insurance risk, financial risk, strategic risk, and operational risk. The RUC is chaired by Chubb Group’s 's Chief Risk Officer and Chief Actuary.  The RUC meets at least monthly, and is comprised of Chubb Group 's most senior executives, in addition to the Chair, including the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Investment Officer, Chief Claims Officer, General Counsel, President – North America Commercial and Personal Insurance, President – North America Major Accounts and Specialty Insurance, and Chief Underwriting Officer.



The RUC is assisted in its activities by Chubb's Enterprise Risk Unit (ERU) and Product Boards. The ERU is responsible for the collation and analysis of risk insight in two key areas.  First, external information that provides insight to the RUC on existing or emerging risks that might significantly impact Chubb's key objectives and second, internal risk aggregations arising from Chubb's business writings and other activities such as investments and operations.  The ERU is independent of the operating units and reports to our Chief Risk Officer and Chief Actuary. The Product Boards exist to provide oversight for products that we offer globally.  A Product Board currently exists for each of Chubb's major product areas. Each Product Board is responsible for









ensuring consistency in underwriting and pricing standards, identification of emerging issues, and guidelines for relevant accumulations.



Chubb's Chief Risk Officer and Chief Actuary also reports to the Board's Risk & Finance Committee, which helps execute the Board's supervisory responsibilities pertaining to ERM.  The role of the Risk & Finance Committee includes evaluation of the integrity and effectiveness of our ERM procedures, systems, and information; governance on major policy decisions pertaining to risk aggregation and minimization; and assessment of our major decisions and preparedness levels pertaining to perceived material risks.  The Audit Committee meets annually and on an as needed basis with the Risk & Finance Committee in order to exercise its duties under New York Stock Exchange Rules.

Others within the ERM structure contribute toward accomplishing Chubb's ERM objectives, including regional management, Corporate Underwriting, Internal Audit, Compliance, external consultants, and managers of our internal control processes and procedures.





Tax Matters

Refer to “Risk Factors”, under Item 1A and Note1n) and Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.









EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

NameAgePositionEvan G. Greenberg61Chairman, President, Chief Executive Officer, and DirectorJohn W. Keogh51Executive Vice Chairman and Chief Operating Officer; Chairman, Overseas General InsurancePhilip V. Bancroft56Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerJohn J. Lupica50Vice Chairman; President, North America Major Accounts & Specialty InsuranceJoseph F. Wayland58Executive Vice President and General CounselSean Ringsted52Chief Risk Officer and Chief ActuaryTimothy A. Boroughs66Chief Investment OfficerPaul J. Krump56Executive Vice President; President, North America Commercial and Personal InsuranceJuan C. Andrade51Executive Vice President; President, Overseas General Insurance



Evan G. Greenberg has been a director of Chubb Limited since August 2002.  Mr. Greenberg was elected Chairman of the Board of Directors in May 2007.  Mr. Greenberg became a director of The Coca-Cola Company in February 2011.  Mr. Greenberg was appointed to the position of President and Chief Executive Officer of Chubb Limited in May 2004, and in June 2003, was appointed President and Chief Operating Officer of Chubb Limited.  Mr. Greenberg was appointed to the position of Chief Executive Officer of ACE Overseas General in April 2002.  He joined Chubb as Vice Chairman, Chubb Limited, and Chief Executive Officer of ACE Tempest Re in November 2001.  Prior to joining Chubb, Mr. Greenberg was most recently President and Chief Operating Officer of American International Group (AIG), a position he held from 1997 until 2000.



John W. Keogh was appointed Executive Vice Chairman of Chubb Limited in November 2015.  Mr. Keogh has served as Chief Operating Officer of Chubb Limited since July 2011 and Vice Chairman of Chubb Limited and ACE Group Holdings since August 2010.  Mr. Keogh joined Chubb as Chief Executive Officer of Overseas General Insurance in April 2006 and became Chairman of Overseas General Insurance in August 2010.  Prior to joining Chubb, Mr. Keogh served as Senior Vice President, Domestic General Insurance of AIG, and President and Chief Executive Officer of National Union Fire Insurance Company, AIG's member company that specializes in D&O and fiduciary liability coverages.  Mr. Keogh joined AIG in 1986.  He served in a number of other senior positions there including as Executive Vice President of AIG's Domestic Brokerage Group and as President and Chief Operating Officer of AIG's Lexington Insurance Company unit.



Philip V. Bancroft was appointed Chief Financial Officer of Chubb Limited in January 2002.  For nearly 20 years, Mr. Bancroft worked for PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  Prior to joining Chubb, he served as partner-in-charge of the New York Regional Insurance Practice.  Mr. Bancroft had been a partner with PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP for ten years.











John J. Lupica was appointed President, North America Major Accounts & Specialty Insurance in January 2016, Vice Chairman of Chubb Limited and ACE Group Holdings in November 2013 and Chairman, Insurance - North America, in July 2011.  Mr. Lupica had been Chief Operating Officer, Insurance - North America, since 2010 and President of ACE USA since 2006.  He also previously served as Division President of ACE Professional Risk and ACE USA Regional Operations.  Mr. Lupica joined ACE USA as Executive Vice President of Professional Risk in 2000.  Prior to joining Chubb, he served as Senior Vice President for Munich-American Risk Partners, Inc.  He also held various management positions at AIG.



Joseph F. Wayland was appointed Executive Vice President of Chubb Limited in January 2016, General Counsel and Secretary of Chubb Limited in July 2013.  Mr. Wayland joined Chubb from the law firm of Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP, where he was a partner since 1994. From 2010 to 2012, he served in the United States Department of Justice, first as Deputy Assistant Attorney General of the Antitrust Division, and was later appointed as the Acting Assistant Attorney General in charge of that division.



Sean Ringsted was appointed Chief Risk Officer and Chief Actuary of Chubb Limited in November 2008.  Mr. Ringsted’s previous roles at Chubb include Chief Actuary for Chubb Group from 2004 to 2008, Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer for ACE Tempest Re from 2002 to 2004, and Senior Vice President and Chief Actuary for ACE Tempest Re from 1998 to 2002.  Prior to joining Chubb, Mr. Ringsted was a consultant at Tillinghast-Towers Perrin.



Timothy A. Boroughs was appointed Chief Investment Officer of Chubb Group in June 2000.  Prior to joining Chubb, Mr. Boroughs was Director of Fixed Income at Tudor Investment Corporation from 1997 to 2000, and Managing Partner and Director of Global Leveraged Investment Activity at Fischer Francis Trees & Watts from 1976 to 1997.



Paul J. Krump was appointed Executive Vice President, Chubb Group and President North America Commercial and Personal Insurance in January 2016.  Prior to ACE Limited’s January 2016 acquisition of The Chubb Corporation, Mr. Krump was Chief Operating Officer of The Chubb Corporation, responsible for the company’s Commercial, Specialty, Personal and Accident & Health insurance lines; Claims; Global Field Operations; Information Technology; Human Resources; Communications; and External Affairs.  Mr. Krump joined The Chubb Corporation in 1982 as a commercial underwriting trainee in the Minneapolis office.  He held numerous headquarters and field positions in the United States and Europe, including President of Personal Lines and Claims and President of Commercial and Specialty Lines.

Juan C. Andrade was appointed Executive Vice President, Chubb Group and President, Overseas General Insurance in January 2016.  Mr. Andrade joined Chubb in December 2010 to lead the global personal lines and small commercial property & casualty insurance businesses.  In January 2013, he became the Chief Operating Officer for Overseas General Insurance. Prior to joining Chubb, Mr. Andrade was President and Chief Operating Officer of property & casualty operations for The Hartford Financial Services Group.  He joined The Hartford in 2006 as head of the property & casualty claims organization.





