Item 1.Business.



BUSINESS
OVERVIEW

CarMax
Background.CarMax, Inc. was incorporated under the laws of
the Commonwealth of Virginia in 1996.  CarMax, Inc. is a holding
company and our operations are conducted through our
subsidiaries.  Our home office is located at 12800 Tuckahoe Creek
Parkway, Richmond, Virginia.



Under the
ownership of Circuit City Stores, Inc. (“Circuit City”), we began operations in
1993 with the opening of our first CarMax superstore in Richmond,
Virginia.  In 1997, Circuit City completed the initial public offering
of a tracking stock, Circuit City Stores, Inc.–CarMax Group common stock, which
was intended to track separately the performance of the CarMax
operations.  On October 1, 2002, the CarMax business was separated
from Circuit City through a tax-free transaction, becoming an independent,
publicly traded company.



CarMax
Business.We are the nation’s largest retailer of used cars,
based on the 357,129 used vehicles we retailed during the fiscal year ended
February 28, 2010.  As of the end of fiscal 2010, we operated 100 used
car superstores in 46 metropolitan markets.  In addition, we sold
197,382 wholesale vehicles in fiscal 2010 through on-site auctions.



We were
the first used vehicle retailer to offer a large selection of high quality used
vehicles at competitively low, “no-haggle” prices using a customer-friendly
sales process in an attractive, modern sales facility.  The CarMax
consumer offer provides customers the opportunity to shop for vehicles the same
way they shop for items at other “big-box” retailers, and it is structured
around four customer benefits: low, no-haggle prices; a broad selection; high
quality vehicles; and a customer-friendly sales process.  Our strategy
is to revolutionize the auto retailing market by addressing the major sources of
customer dissatisfaction with traditional auto retailers and to maximize
operating efficiencies through the use of standardized operating procedures and
store formats enhanced by sophisticated, proprietary management information
systems.








We
purchase, recondition and sell used vehicles.  All of the used
vehicles we retail are thoroughly reconditioned to meet our high standards, and
each vehicle must pass a comprehensive inspection before being offered for
sale.  In fiscal 2010, approximately 90% of the used vehicles we
retailed were 1 to 6 years old with fewer than 60,000 miles.  We
also offer a selection of used vehicles at each superstore that are more than 6
years old or have more than 60,000 miles, if they meet similar quality
standards.



We also
sell new vehicles at five locations under franchise agreements with four new car
manufacturers (Chrysler, General Motors, Nissan and Toyota).  In
fiscal 2010, new vehicles comprised 2% of our total retail vehicle unit
sales.



We
provide customers with a full range of related products and services, including
the financing of vehicle purchases through CarMax Auto Finance (“CAF”), our own
finance operation, and third-party financing providers; the sale of extended
service plans, guaranteed asset protection and accessories; the appraisal and
purchase of vehicles directly from consumers; and vehicle repair
service.



The
CarMax consumer offer enables customers to evaluate separately each component of
the sales process and to make informed decisions based on comprehensive
information about the options, terms and associated prices of each
component.  The customer can accept or decline any individual element
of the offer without affecting the price or terms of any other component of the
offer.  Our no-haggle pricing and our commission structure, which is
generally based on a fixed dollars-per-unit standard, allow sales consultants to
focus solely on meeting customer needs.



We have
separated the practice of trading in a used vehicle in conjunction with the
purchase of another vehicle into two distinct and independent
transactions.  We will appraise a consumer’s vehicle and make an offer
to buy that vehicle regardless of whether the owner is purchasing a vehicle from
us.  Historically, we have acquired the majority of our retail used
vehicle inventory through this unique in-store appraisal process.  We
also acquire a significant portion of our used vehicle inventory through
wholesale auctions and, to a lesser extent, directly from other sources,
including wholesalers, dealers and fleet owners.  Vehicles purchased
through our in-store appraisal process that do not meet our retail standards are
sold to licensed dealers through on-site wholesale auctions.



Our
proprietary inventory management and pricing system tracks each vehicle
throughout the sales process.  Using the information provided by this
system and applying statistical modeling techniques, we are able to optimize our
inventory mix, anticipate future inventory needs at each store, evaluate sales
consultant and buyer performance and refine our vehicle pricing
strategy.  Because of the pricing discipline afforded by the inventory
management and pricing system, generally more than 99% of the entire used car
inventory offered at retail is sold at retail.



Industry and
Competition.The U.S. used car marketplace is highly
fragmented and competitive.  According to industry sources, as of
December 31, 2009, there were approximately 18,600 franchised automotive
dealerships, who sell both new and used vehicles.  In addition, used
vehicles were sold by approximately 36,500 independent used vehicle dealers, as
well as millions of private individuals.  Our primary competitors are
the franchised auto dealers, who sell the majority of late-model used
vehicles.  Independent used car dealers predominantly sell older,
higher mileage cars than we do.  The number of franchised and
independent auto dealers has gradually declined over the last
decade.  The rate of dealership closures accelerated in 2008 and 2009
due to the recessionary environment, the sharp decline in industry sales, the
challenging credit conditions and the bankruptcies of General Motors and
Chrysler.  Despite the recent acceleration in dealership closures, the
automotive retail environment remains highly fragmented.



Based on
industry data, there were approximately 35 million used cars sold in the U.S. in
calendar year 2009, of which approximately 15 million were estimated to be
late-model, 1 to 6 year old vehicles.  While we are the
largest retailer of used vehicles in the U.S., selling more than two times as
many used vehicles as the next largest retailer in calendar 2009, we still
represented only approximately 2% of the total late-model used units
sold.  Over the last several years, competition has been affected by
the increasing use of Internet-based marketing for both used vehicles and
vehicle financing.  In both the used and new vehicle markets, we seek
to distinguish ourselves from traditional dealerships through our consumer
offer, sales approach and other innovative operating strategies.



We
believe that our principal competitive advantages in used vehicle retailing are
our ability to provide a high degree of customer satisfaction with the
car-buying experience; our competitively low prices; our breadth of selection of
the most popular makes and models available both on site and via our website,
carmax.com; the quality of our vehicles; our proprietary information systems;
and the locations of our retail stores.  Upon request by a customer,
we will transfer virtually any used vehicle in our nationwide inventory to a
localsuperstore.Transfer
fees may apply, depending on the distance the vehicle needs to
travel.  In fiscal 2010, more than 25% of our vehicles sold were
transferred at customerrequest.  Our
Certified Quality Inspection assures that every vehicle we offer for sale meets
our stringent standards.  We back every vehicle with a 5-day,
money-back guarantee and at least a 30-day limited warranty.  Other
competitive advantages include our ability to offer or arrange customer
financing with competitive terms and the comprehensiveness and cost of the
extended service plans we offer.  We believe that we are competitive
in all of these areas and that we enjoy advantages over competitors that employ
traditional high-pressure, negotiation-oriented sales techniques.








Our sales
consultants play a significant role in ensuring a customer-friendly sales
process.  A sales consultant is paid a commission based on a fixed
dollars-per-unit standard, thereby earning the same dollar sales commission
regardless of the gross profit on the vehicle being sold.  The sales
consultant normally receives no commission on the finance
process.  This ensures that the sales consultant’s primary objective
is helping customers find the right vehicles for their needs at prices they can
afford.  In contrast, sales and finance personnel at traditional
dealerships typically receive higher commissions for negotiating higher prices
and interest rates, and for steering customers toward vehicles with higher gross
profit.



In the
new vehicle market, we compete with other franchised
dealers.  Historically, the new vehicle market has been served
primarily by dealerships employing traditional automotive selling
methods.  We believe our customer-friendly, low-pressure sales methods
are points of competitive differentiation.



In our
wholesale auctions, we compete with other automotive auction
houses.  We believe our principal competitive advantages include our
high vehicle sales rate, our conditional announcement and arbitration policies,
our broad geographic distribution and our dealer-friendly
practices.  Because we own the cars that we auction, we generally sell
between 97% and 100% of the vehicles offered, which is substantially higher than
the sales rate at most other auto auctions.  Our policy of making
conditional announcements, noting mechanical and other issues found during our
appraisal process, is also not a typical practice used at other auctions of
older, higher mileage vehicles.  Together, these factors make our
auctions attractive to dealers, resulting in a high dealer-to-car attendance
ratio.



Marketing and
Advertising.Our marketing strategies are focused on
developing awareness of the advantages of shopping at our stores and on
attracting customers who are already considering buying or selling a
vehicle.  We use market awareness and customer satisfaction surveys to
help tailor our marketing efforts to the purchasing habits and preferences of
customers in each market area.  Our marketing strategies are
implemented primarily through television and radio broadcasts, carmax.com,
Internet search engines and online classified listings.  Television
and radio broadcast advertisements are designed to build consumer awareness of
the CarMax name, carmax.com and key components of the CarMax
offer.  Broadcast and Internet advertisements are designed to drive
customers to our stores and to carmax.com.



We
continue to adjust our marketing programs in response to the evolving media
landscape.  We have customized our marketing program based on
awareness levels in each market.  We are building awareness and
driving traffic to our stores and carmax.com by listing every retail vehicle on
AutoTrader.com, cars.com and usedcars.com.  We believe using these
online classified services allows our vehicles to appear on sites that are
visited by a majority of buyers of late-model used vehicles who use the Internet
in their shopping process.  Our advertising on the Internet also
includes advertisements on search engines, such as Google and
Yahoo!



Our
website, carmax.com, is a marketing tool for communicating the CarMax consumer
offer in detail, a sophisticated search engine for finding the right vehicle and
a sales channel for customers who prefer to complete a part of the shopping and
sales process online.  The website offers complete inventory and
pricing search capabilities.  Information on each of the thousands of
cars available in our nationwide inventory is updated
daily.  Carmax.com includes detailed information, such as vehicle
photos, prices, features, specifications and store locations, as well as
advanced feature-based search capabilities, and sorting and comparison tools
that allow consumers to easily compare vehicles.  The site also
includes features such as detailed vehicle reviews, payment calculators and
email alerts when new inventory arrives.  Virtually any used vehicle
in our nationwide inventory can be transferred at customer request to their
local superstore.  Customers can contact sales consultants online via
carmax.com, by telephone or by fax.  Customers can work with these
sales consultants from the comfort of home, including applying for financing,
and they need to visit the store only to sign the paperwork and pay for and pick
up their vehicle.  Our survey data indicates that during fiscal 2010,
approximately 75% of customers who purchased a vehicle from us had visited our
website first.








Suppliers for
Used Vehicles.We acquire used vehicle inventory directly from
consumers through our in-store appraisal process and through other sources,
including local, regional and online auctions, wholesalers, franchised and
independent dealers and fleet owners, such as leasing companies and rental
companies.  The supply of used vehicles is influenced by a variety of
factors, including the total number of vehicles in operation; the rate of new
vehicle sales, which in turn generate used-car trade-ins; and the number of used
vehicles sold or remarketed through retail channels, wholesale transactions and
at automotive auctions.  According to industry statistics, there are
approximately 250 million light vehicles in operation in the U.S.  In
recent years, generally between 10 million and 17 million new vehicles and
between 35 million and 45 million used vehicles have been retailed annually and
between 9 million and 10 million vehicles have been sold at wholesale auction
each year.



Our used
vehicle inventory acquired directly from consumers through our appraisal
process, within our stores and car-buying centers, helps provide an inventory of
makes and models that reflects the consumer preferences of each
market.  We have replaced the traditional “trade-in” transaction with
a process in which a CarMax-trained buyer appraises a customer’s vehicle and
provides the owner with a written, guaranteed offer that is good for seven days.An appraisal is
available to every customer free of charge, whether or not the customer
purchases a vehicle from us.  Based on their age, mileage or
condition, fewer than half of the vehicles acquired through this in-store
appraisal process meet our high-quality retail standards.  Those
vehicles that do not meet our retail standards are sold to licensed dealers
through on-site wholesale auctions.



The
inventory purchasing function is primarily performed at the store level and is
the responsibility of the buyers, who handle both on-site appraisals and
off-site auction purchases.  Our buyers evaluate all used vehicles
based on internal and external auction data and market sales, as well as
estimated reconditioning costs and, for off-site purchases, transportation
costs.  Our buyers, in collaboration with our home office staff,
utilize the extensive inventory and sales trend data available through the
CarMax information system to decide which inventory to purchase at off-site
auctions.  Our inventory and pricing models help the buyers tailor
inventories to the buying preferences at each superstore, recommend pricing
adjustments and optimize inventory turnover to help maintain gross profit per
unit.



Based on
consumer acceptance of the in-store appraisal process, our experience and
success to date in acquiring vehicles from auctions and other sources, and the
large size of the U.S. auction market relative to our needs, we believe that
sources of used vehicles will continue to be sufficient to meet our current and
future needs.



Suppliers for New
Vehicles.Our new car operations are governed by the terms of
the sales, service and dealer agreements.  Among other things, these
agreements generally impose operating requirements and restrictions, including
inventory levels, working capital, monthly financial reporting, signage and
cooperation with marketing strategies.  A manufacturer may terminate a
dealer agreement under certain circumstances.  In addition to selling
new vehicles using our low, no-haggle price strategy, the franchise and dealer
agreements generally allow us to perform warranty work on these vehicles and
sell related parts and services within a specified market
area.  Designation of specified market areas generally does not
guarantee exclusivity within a specified territory.



Seasonality.Historically,
our business has been seasonal.  Typically, our superstores experience
their strongest traffic and sales in the spring and summer
quarters.  Sales are typically slowest in the fall quarter, when used
vehicles generally experience proportionately more of their annual
depreciation.  We believe this is partly the result of a decline in
customer traffic, as well as discounts on model year closeouts that can pressure
pricing for late-model used vehicles.  Customer traffic generally
tends to slow in the fall as the weather changes and as customers shift their
spending priorities toward holiday-related expenditures.



Products
and Services

Merchandising.We
offer customers a broad selection of makes and models of used vehicles,
including both domestic and imported vehicles, at competitive
prices.  Our used car selection covers popular brands from
manufacturers such as Chrysler, Ford, General Motors, Honda, Hyundai, Kia,
Mazda, Mitsubishi, Nissan, Subaru, Toyota and Volkswagen and luxury brands such
as Acura, BMW, Infiniti, Lexus and Mercedes.  Our primary focus is
vehicles that are 1 to 6 years old, have fewer than 60,000 miles and generally
range in price from $11,000 to $30,000.  For the more cost-conscious
consumer, we also offer used cars that are more than 6 years old or have 60,000
miles or more and that generally range in price from $8,000 to
$21,000.



We have
implemented an everyday low-price strategy under which we set no-haggle prices
on both our used and new vehicles.  We believe that our pricing is
competitive with the best-negotiated prices in the market.  Prices on
all vehicles are clearly displayed on each vehicle’s information sticker; on
carmax.com, AutoTrader.com, cars.com and usedcars.com; and, where applicable, in
our newspaper advertising.  We extend our no-haggle philosophy to
every component of the vehicle transaction, including vehicle appraisal offers,
financing rates, accessories, extended service plan pricing and vehicle
documentation fees.








Reconditioning
and Service.An
integral part of our used car consumer offer is the reconditioning
process.  This process includes a comprehensive Certified Quality
Inspection of the engine and all major systems, including cooling, fuel,
drivetrain, transmission, electronics, suspension, brakes, steering, air
conditioningand other
equipment, as well as the interior and exterior of the vehicle.  Based
on this quality inspection, we determine the reconditioning necessary to bring
the vehicle up to our quality standards.  Our service technicians
complete vehicle inspections.We perform most routine mechanical and
minor body repairs in-house; however, for some reconditioning services, we
engage third parties specializing in those services.  Some superstores
depend upon nearby, typically larger, superstores for reconditioning, which
increases efficiency and reduces overhead.



All
CarMax used car superstores provide vehicle repair service including repairs of
vehicles covered by our extended service plans.  We also provide
factory-authorized service at all new car franchises.  We have
developed systems and procedures that are intended to ensure that our retail
repair service is conducted in the same customer-friendly and efficient manner
as our other operations.



We
believe that the efficiency of our reconditioning and service operations is
enhanced by our modern facilities, our information systems and our technician
training and development process.  The training and development
process and our compensation programs are designed to increase the productivity
of technicians, identify opportunities for cost reduction and achieve
high-quality repairs.  Our information systems provide the ability to
track repair history and enable trend analysis, which serves as guidance for our
continuous improvement efforts.



Wholesale
Auctions.Vehicles purchased through our in-store appraisal
process that do not meet our retail standards are sold through on-site wholesale
auctions.  As of February 28, 2010, wholesale auctions were conducted
at 50 of our 100 superstores and were generally held on a weekly or bi-weekly
basis.  Auction frequency at a given superstore is determined by the
number of vehicles to be auctioned, which depends on the number of stores and
the market awareness of CarMax and our in-store appraisal offer in that
market.  The typical wholesale vehicle is approximately 10 years old
and has more than 100,000 miles.  Participation in our wholesale
auctions is restricted to licensed automobile dealers, the majority of whom are
independent dealers.  To participate in a CarMax auction, dealers must
register with our centralized auction support group, at which time we determine
the purchase limit available to each dealer.  We make conditional
announcements on each vehicle, including those for vehicles with major
mechanical issues, possible frame or flood damage, branded titles, salvage
history and unknown true mileage.  Professional, licensed auctioneers
conduct our auctions.  The average auction sales rate was 97% in
fiscal 2010.  Dealers pay a fee to us based on the sales price of the
vehicles they purchase.



Customer Credit.We
offer customers a wide range of financing alternatives, which we believe
enhances the CarMax consumer offer.  Before the effect of 3-day
payoffs and vehicle returns, CAF financed more than 35% of our retail vehicle
unit sales in fiscal 2010.  Customer credit applications are initially
reviewed by CAF and may also be reviewed by a third-party
provider.  Customers who are not approved by either CAF or the initial
third-party provider may be evaluated by other financial
institutions.  Having a wide array of financing sources increases
discrete approvals and expands the options for our customers.  To this
end, we have tested, and will continue to test, other third-party
providers.



Customers
applying for financing provide credit information that is electronically
submitted by sales consultants through our proprietary information
system.  A majority of applicants receive a response within five
minutes.  The vehicle financings are retail installment contracts
secured by the vehicles financed.  For the majority of the contracts
arranged by the third-party providers, we are paid a fixed, prenegotiated fee
per vehicle financed.  We have no recourse liability on retail
installment contracts arranged with third-party providers.  Customers
are permitted to refinance or pay off their contract within three business days
of a purchase without incurring any finance or related charges.



Extended Service
Plans and Guaranteed Asset Protection.At the time of the
sale, we offer the customer an extended service plan.  We sell these
plans on behalf of unrelated third parties that are the primary
obligors.  Under the third-party service plan programs, we have no
contractual liability to the customer.  The extended service plans
have terms of coverage from 12 to 72 months, depending on the vehicle mileage,
make and age.  We offer extended service plans at low, fixed prices,
which are based primarily on the historical repair record of the vehicle make
and model and the length of coverage selected.  All extended service
plans that we sell (other than manufacturer programs) have been designed to our
specifications and are administered by the third parties through private-label
arrangements.  We receive a commission from the administrator at the
time the extended service plan is sold.  In fiscal 2010, more than
half of the customers purchasing a used vehicle from CarMax also purchased an
extended service plan.






Our
extended service plan customers have access to vehicle repair service at each
CarMax store and to the third-party administrators’ nationwide network
consisting of thousands of independent and franchised service
providers.  We believe that the quality of the services provided by
this network, as well as the broad scope of our extended service plans, helps
promote customer satisfaction and loyalty, and thus increases the likelihood of
repeat and referral business.



In fiscal
2010, we introduced a guaranteed asset protection product (“GAP”) that will pay
the difference between the customer’s insurance settlement and the finance
contract payoff amount on their vehicle in the case of a total loss or
unrecovered theft. We sell this product on behalf of an unrelated third party
that is the primary obligor and we have no contractual liability to the
customer.  GAP has been designed to our specifications and is
administered by the third party through private-label
arrangements.  We receive a commission from the administrator at the
time of sale.



Systems



Our
inventory management and pricing system allows us to buy the mix of makes,
models, age, mileage and price points tailored to customer buying preferences at
each superstore.  This system also generates recommended initial
retail price points, as well as retail price markdowns for specific vehicles
based on complex algorithms that take into account factors including sales
history, consumer interest and seasonal patterns.  We believe this
systematic approach to vehicle pricing allows us to optimize inventory turns,
which minimizes the depreciation risk inherent in used cars and helps us to
achieve our targeted gross profit dollars per unit.



In
addition to inventory management, our Electronic Repair Order system (“ERO”) is
used to sequence reconditioning procedures.  ERO provides information
that helps increase quality and reduce costs, which further enhances our
customer service and profitability.



Through
our centralized systems, we are able to quickly integrate new stores into our
store network, allowing the new stores to rapidly achieve operating
efficiency.  We continue to enhance and refine our information
systems, which we believe to be a core competitive advantage.  The
design of our information systems incorporates off-site backups, redundant
processing and other measures to reduce the risk of significant data loss in the
event of an emergency or disaster.



Associates

On
February 28, 2010, we had a total of 13,439 full- and part-time associates,
including 10,196 hourly and salaried associates and 3,243 sales associates, who
worked on a commission basis.  We employ additional associates during
peak selling seasons.  As of February 28, 2010, our location general
managers averaged more than nine years of CarMax experience, in addition to
prior retail management experience.  We open new stores with
experienced management teams drawn from existing stores.



We
believe we have created a unique corporate culture and maintain good employee
relations.  No associate is subject to a collective bargaining
agreement.  We focus on providing our associates with the information
and resources they need to offer exceptional customer service.  We
reward associates whose behavior exemplifies our culture, and we believe that
our favorable working conditions and compensation programs allow us to attract
and retain highly qualified individuals.  We have been recognized for
the success of our efforts by a number of external organizations.






Training.To
further support our emphasis on attracting, developing and retaining qualified
associates, we have made a commitment to providing exceptional training
programs.  On average, each store associate completed at least 20
online or classroom courses, totaling more than 44 hours of training per
associate in fiscal 2010.  Store associates receive structured,
self-paced training that introduces them to company policies and their specific
job responsibilities through KMX University – our proprietary intranet-based
testing and tracking system.  KMX University is comprised of
customized applications hosted within a learning management system that allow us
to author, deliver and track training events and to measure associate competency
after training.  Most new store associates are also assigned mentors
who provide on-the-job guidance and support.





Laws
and Regulations

Vehicle Dealer
and Other Laws and Regulations.We operate in a highly
regulated industry.  In every state in which we operate, we must
obtain various licenses and permits in order to conduct business, including
dealer, service, sales and finance licenses issued by state and certain local
regulatory authorities.  A wide range of federal, state and local laws
and regulations govern the manner in which we conduct business, including
advertising, sales, financing and employment practices.  These laws
include consumer protection laws, privacy laws and state franchise laws, as well
as other laws and regulations applicable to new and used motor vehicle
dealers.  These laws also include federal and state wage-hour,
anti-discrimination and other employment practices laws.  Our
financing activities with customers are subject to federal truth-in-lending,
consumer leasing and equal credit opportunity laws and regulations, as well as
state and local motor vehicle finance and collection laws, installment finance
laws and usury laws.



Claims
arising out of actual or alleged violations of law could be asserted against us
by individuals or governmental authorities and could expose us to significant
damages or other penalties, including revocation or suspension of the licenses
necessary to conduct business and fines.



EnvironmentalLaws and
Regulations.We are subject to a
variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations that pertain to the
environment.  Our business involves the use, handling and disposal of
hazardous materials and wastes, including motor oil, gasoline, solvents,
lubricants, paints and other substances.  We are subject to compliance
with regulations concerning the operation of underground and aboveground
gasoline storage tanks, aboveground oil tanks and automotive paint
booths.



AVAILABILITY
OF REPORTS AND OTHER INFORMATION

Our
annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on
Form 8-K and proxy statements on Schedule 14A, as well as any amendments to
those reports, are available without charge through our website, carmax.com, as
soon as reasonably practicable after filing or furnishing the material to the
Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).  The contents of our
website are not, however, part of this report.








In
addition, our Corporate Governance Guidelines and Code of Business Conduct, as
well as the charters of the Audit Committee, Nominating and Governance Committee
and Compensation and Personnel Committee, are available to shareholders and the
public through the “Corporate Governance” link on our investor information home
page at investor.carmax.com.  Printed copies of these documents are
available to any shareholder, without charge, upon written request to our
corporate secretary at the address set forth on the cover page of this
report.  Any changes to these documents or reportable waivers of the
Code of Business Conduct are promptly disclosed on our website.



