Item 1.Business.

BUSINESS OVERVIEW

CarMax
Background.CarMax, Inc. was incorporated under the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia in 1996. CarMax, Inc. is a holding company and our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries. Our home office is located at 12800 Tuckahoe Creek
Parkway, Richmond, Virginia.

Under the ownership of Circuit City Stores, Inc. (“Circuit City”), we began operations in 1993 with
the opening of our first CarMax superstore in Richmond, Virginia. In 1997, Circuit City completed the initial public offering of a tracking stock that was intended to track separately the performance of the CarMax operations. On
October 1, 2002, the CarMax business was separated from Circuit City through a tax-free transaction, becoming an independent, publicly traded company.

CarMax Business.We are the nation’s largest retailer of used cars, based on the 408,080 used vehicles we retailed during the fiscal year ended February 29, 2012. As of the end of
fiscal 2012, we operated 108 used car superstores in 53 metropolitan markets. In addition, we are one of the nation’s largest wholesale vehicle auction operators, based on the 316,649 wholesale vehicles we sold through our on-site auctions in
fiscal 2012.

We were the first used vehicle retailer to offer a large selection of high quality used vehicles at competitively low,
“no-haggle” prices using a customer-friendly sales process in an attractive, modern sales facility. The CarMax consumer offer provides customers the opportunity to shop for vehicles the same way they shop for items at other







“big-box” retailers, and it is structured around four customer benefits: low, no-haggle prices; a broad selection; high quality vehicles; and a customer-friendly sales process. Our
strategy is to revolutionize the auto retailing market by addressing the major sources of customer dissatisfaction with traditional auto retailers and to maximize operating efficiencies through the use of standardized operating procedures and store
formats enhanced by sophisticated, proprietary management information systems.

The CarMax consumer offer enables customers to evaluate
separately each component of the sales process and to make informed decisions based on comprehensive information about the options, terms and associated prices of each component. The customer can accept or decline any individual element of the offer
without affecting the price or terms of any other component of the offer. Our no-haggle pricing and our commission structure, which is generally based on a fixed dollars-per-unit standard, allow sales consultants to focus solely on meeting customer
needs.

All of the used vehicles we retail are thoroughly reconditioned to meet our high standards, and each vehicle must pass a comprehensive
inspection before being offered for sale. In fiscal 2012, 90% of the used vehicles we retailed were 0 to 6 years old.

We also wholesale
used vehicles. Vehicles purchased through our in-store appraisal process that do not meet our retail standards are sold to licensed dealers through our on-site wholesale auctions. Unlike many other auto auctions, we own all the vehicles that we sell
in our auctions, which allows us to maintain a high auction sales rate. This high sales rate, combined with dealer-friendly practices, makes our auctions an attractive source of vehicles for independent used car dealers. As of February 29,
2012, we conducted weekly or bi-weekly auctions at 52 of our 108 used car superstores.

In addition, we sell new vehicles at four locations
under franchise agreements with three new car manufacturers. In fiscal 2012, new vehicles comprised only 2% of our total retail vehicle unit sales.

Our finance program provides customers financing alternatives through CarMax Auto Finance (“CAF”), our own finance operation, and third-party financing providers. This program provides access to
credit for customers throughout the credit spectrum. We believe that our processes and systems, the transparency of our pricing and our vehicle quality provide a unique and ideal environment in which to originate and procure high quality auto loans.
CAF focuses solely on originating loans through CarMax stores, customizing its offers to meet the customer’s risk profile and ensuring credit availability to support CarMax retail vehicle unit sales.

We provide customers with a full range of other related products and services, including the appraisal and purchase of vehicles directly from consumers;
the sale of extended service plans (“ESP”), guaranteed asset protection (“GAP”) and accessories; and vehicle repair service.

We have separated the practice of trading in a used vehicle in conjunction with the purchase of another vehicle into two distinct and independent transactions. We will appraise a consumer’s vehicle
and make an offer to buy that vehicle regardless of whether the owner is purchasing a vehicle from us. We acquire a significant percentage of our retail used vehicle inventory through this unique in-store appraisal process. We also acquire a large
portion of our used vehicle inventory through wholesale auctions and, to a lesser extent, directly from other sources, including wholesalers, dealers and fleet owners.

Our proprietary inventory management and pricing system tracks each vehicle throughout the sales process. Using the information provided by this system and applying statistical modeling techniques, we are
able to optimize our inventory mix, anticipate future inventory needs at each store, evaluate sales consultant and buyer performance and refine our vehicle pricing strategy. Because of the pricing discipline afforded by the inventory management and
pricing system, generally more than 99% of the entire used car inventory offered at retail is sold at retail.

Industry and
Competition.The U.S. used car marketplace is highly fragmented and competitive. According to industry sources, as of December 31, 2011, there were approximately 17,900 franchised automotive dealerships, which sell both new and used
vehicles. In addition, used vehicles were sold by approximately 37,500 independent used vehicle dealers, as well as millions of private individuals. Our primary retail competitors are the franchised auto dealers, who sell the majority of late-model
used vehicles. Independent used car dealers predominantly sell older, higher mileage cars than we do. The number of franchised and independent auto dealers has gradually declined over the last decade due to a variety of factors, including franchise
terminations resulting from the bankruptcy reorganizations of General Motors and Chrysler and the discontinuation of several brands by the major auto manufacturers. Despite the recent acceleration in dealership closures, the automotive retail
environment remains highly fragmented.







Based on industry data, there were approximately 39 million used cars sold in the U.S. in calendar year
2011, of which between 15 million and 16 million were estimated to be late-model, 0- to 6-year old vehicles. While we are the largest retailer of used vehicles in the U.S., selling more than two times as many used vehicles as the
next largest retailer in calendar 2011, we still represented less than 3% of the total late-model used units sold. Over the last several years, competition has been affected by the increasing use of Internet-based marketing for both used vehicles
and vehicle financing. In both the used and new vehicle markets, we seek to distinguish ourselves from traditional dealerships through our consumer offer, sales approach and other innovative operating strategies.

Our sales consultants play a
significant role in ensuring a customer-friendly sales process. A sales consultant is paid a commission, generally based on a fixed dollars-per-unit standard, thereby earning the same dollar sales commission regardless of the gross profit on the
vehicle being sold. In addition, sales consultants do not receive commissions based on the number of credit approvals or the amount a customer finances. This pay structure aligns our sales associates’ interests with those of our customers, in
contrast to other dealerships where sales and finance personnel may receive higher commissions for negotiating higher prices and interest rates or steering customers to vehicles with higher gross profits.

In our wholesale auctions, we compete with other automotive auction houses. In contrast with the highly fragmented used vehicle market, the automotive
auction market has two primary competitors representing an estimated two-thirds of the U.S. whole car auction market. These competitors auction vehicles of all ages, while CarMax predominately sells older, higher mileage vehicles. We believe our
principal competitive advantages include our high vehicle sales rate, our vehicle condition disclosures and arbitration policies, our broad geographic distribution and our dealer-friendly practices. Because we own the cars that we auction, we
generally sell more than 95% of the vehicles offered, which is substantially higher than the sales rate at most other auto auctions. Our policy of making vehicle condition disclosures, noting mechanical and other issues found during our appraisal
process, is also not a typical practice used at other auctions of older, higher mileage vehicles. Together, these factors make our auctions attractive to dealers, resulting in a high dealer-to-car attendance ratio.

Marketing and Advertising.Our marketing strategies are focused on developing awareness of the advantages of shopping at our stores and on
attracting customers who are already considering buying or selling a vehicle. Our marketing strategies are implemented primarily through television and radio broadcasts, carmax.com, Internet search engines and online classified listings. We also
reach out to customers and potential customers to build awareness and loyalty through Facebook, Twitter and other social media. Television and radio advertisements are designed to build consumer awareness of the CarMax name, carmax.com and key
components of the CarMax offer. Broadcast and Internet advertisements are designed to drive customers to our stores and to carmax.com.

We
continually adjust our marketing programs in response to the evolving media landscape. We have customized our marketing program based on awareness levels in each market. Beginning in fiscal 2012, we began to transition a portion of our television
and radio advertising to national cable network and national radio programming. In







addition to providing cost savings, this transition allows us to build awareness of CarMax prior to our entrance into new markets. We are also building awareness and driving traffic to our stores
and carmax.com by listing retail vehicles on online classified sites, such as AutoTrader.com and cars.com. We believe using these online classified services allows our vehicles to appear on sites that are visited by a majority of buyers of
late-model used vehicles who use the Internet in their shopping process. Our advertising on the Internet also includes advertisements on search engines, such as Google and Yahoo!

We also maintain a website,
carmaxauctions.com, that supports our wholesale auctions. This website, which is accessible only by authorized dealers, provides listings of all vehicles that will be available in upcoming auctions. It also has many features similar to our retail
website, including vehicle photos, free vehicle history reports and vehicle search and alert capabilities.

Suppliers for Used
Vehicles.We acquire used vehicle inventory directly from consumers through our in-store appraisal process and our car-buying centers, as well as, through other sources, including local, regional and online auctions, wholesalers, franchised
and independent dealers and fleet owners, such as leasing companies and rental companies. The supply of used vehicles is influenced by a variety of factors, including the total number of vehicles in operation; the rate of new vehicle sales, which in
turn generate used-car trade-ins; and the number of used vehicles sold or remarketed through retail channels, wholesale transactions and at automotive auctions. According to industry data, there are approximately 240 million light vehicles in
operation in the U.S., including approximately 80 million vehicles that are 0 to 6 years old. In recent years, generally between 10 million and 17 million new vehicles and between 35 million and 45 million used vehicles have
been retailed annually and between 8 million and 10 million vehicles have been remarketed at wholesale auctions each year.

Our used
vehicle inventory acquired directly from consumers through our appraisal process at our stores and car-buying centers helps provide an inventory of makes and models that reflects the consumer preferences of each market. We have replaced the
traditional “trade-in” transaction with a process in which a CarMax-trained buyer appraises a customer’s vehicle and provides the owner with a written, guaranteed offer that is good for seven days. An appraisal is available to every
customer free of charge, whether or not the customer purchases a vehicle from us. Based on their age, mileage or condition, fewer than half of the vehicles acquired through this in-store appraisal process meet our high-quality retail standards.
Those vehicles that do not meet our retail standards are sold to licensed dealers through our on-site wholesale auctions.

The inventory
purchasing function is primarily performed at the store level and is the responsibility of the buyers, who handle both on-site appraisals and off-site auction purchases. Our buyers evaluate all used vehicles based on internal and external auction
data and market sales, as well as estimated reconditioning costs and, for off-site purchases, transportation costs. Our buyers, in collaboration with our home office staff, utilize the extensive inventory and sales trend data available through the
CarMax information system to decide which inventory to purchase at off-site auctions. Our inventory and pricing models help the buyers tailor inventories to the buying preferences at each superstore, recommend pricing adjustments and optimize
inventory turnover to help maintain gross profit per unit.

Based on consumer acceptance of the in-store appraisal process, our experience and
success to date in acquiring vehicles from auctions and other sources, and the large size of the U.S. auction market relative to our needs, we believe that sources of used vehicles will continue to be sufficient to meet our current and future needs.







Suppliers for New Vehicles.Our new car operations are governed by the terms of the sales,
service and dealer agreements. Among other things, these agreements generally impose operating requirements and restrictions, including inventory levels, working capital, monthly financial reporting, signage and cooperation with marketing
strategies. A manufacturer may terminate a dealer agreement under certain circumstances. In addition to selling new vehicles using our low, no-haggle price strategy, the franchise and dealer agreements generally allow us to perform warranty work on
these vehicles and sell related parts and services within a specified market area. Designation of specified market areas generally does not guarantee exclusivity within a specified territory.

Seasonality.Historically, our business has been seasonal. Typically, our superstores experience their strongest traffic and sales in the spring and summer quarters. Sales are typically
slowest in the fall quarter, when used vehicles generally experience proportionately more of their annual depreciation. We believe this is partly the result of a decline in customer traffic, as well as discounts on model year closeouts that can
pressure pricing for late-model used vehicles. Customer traffic generally tends to slow in the fall as the weather changes and as customers shift their spending priorities. We typically experience an increase in subprime traffic and sales in
February and March, coincident with tax refund season.

Products and Services

Merchandising.We offer customers a broad selection of makes and models of used vehicles, including both domestic and imported vehicles, at competitive prices. Our used car selection covers
popular brands from manufacturers such as Chrysler, Ford, General Motors, Honda, Hyundai, Kia, Mazda, Nissan, Subaru, Toyota and Volkswagen and luxury brands such as Acura, BMW, Infiniti, Lexus and Mercedes-Benz. Our primary focus is vehicles that
are 0 to 6 years old and generally range in price from $12,000 to $32,000. For the more cost-conscious consumer, we also offer used cars that are more than 6 years old. The mix of our used vehicle inventory by make, model and age will vary from time
to time, depending on consumer preferences.

We have implemented an everyday low-price strategy under which we set no-haggle prices on both
our used and new vehicles. We believe that our pricing is competitive with the best-negotiated prices in the market. Prices on all vehicles are clearly displayed on each vehicle’s information sticker, on carmax.com and on applicable online
classified sites on which they are listed. We extend our no-haggle philosophy to every component of the vehicle transaction, including vehicle appraisal offers, financing rates, accessories, and ESP and GAP pricing.

Reconditioning and Service.An integral part of our used car consumer offer is the reconditioning process. This process includes a
comprehensive Certified Quality Inspection of the engine and all major systems, including cooling, fuel, drivetrain, transmission, electronics, suspension, brakes, steering, air conditioning and other equipment, as well as the interior and exterior
of the vehicle. Based on this quality inspection, we determine the reconditioning necessary to bring the vehicle up to our quality standards. Our technicians complete vehicle inspections. We perform most routine mechanical and minor body repairs
in-house; however, for some reconditioning services, we engage third parties specializing in those services. Many superstores depend upon nearby, typically larger, superstores for reconditioning, which increases efficiency and reduces overhead.

All CarMax used car superstores provide vehicle repair service, including repairs of vehicles covered by our ESPs. We also provide
factory-authorized service at all new car franchises. We have developed systems and procedures that are intended to ensure that our retail repair service is conducted in the same customer-friendly and efficient manner as our other operations.

We believe that the efficiency of our reconditioning and service operations is enhanced by our modern facilities, our information systems and
our technician training and development process. The training and development process and our compensation programs are designed to increase the productivity of technicians, identify opportunities for waste reduction and achieve high-quality
repairs. Our information systems provide the ability to track repair history and enable trend analysis, which serves as guidance for our continuous improvement efforts.

Wholesale Auctions.Vehicles purchased through our in-store appraisal process that do not meet our retail standards are sold through on-site wholesale auctions. As of February 29, 2012,
wholesale auctions were conducted at 52 of our 108 superstores and were generally held on a weekly or bi-weekly basis. Auction frequency at a given superstore is determined by the number of vehicles to be auctioned, which depends on the number of
stores in that market and the consumer awareness of CarMax and our in-store appraisal offer. The typical wholesale vehicle is approximately 10 years old and has more than 100,000 miles. Participation in our wholesale auctions is restricted to
licensed automobile dealers, the majority of whom are independent dealers. To participate in a CarMax auction, dealers must register with our centralized auction support group, at which time we determine the purchase limit available to each dealer.
We provide condition disclosures on each vehicle, including those for vehicles with major







mechanical issues, possible frame or flood damage, branded titles, salvage history and unknown true mileage. Professional, licensed auctioneers conduct our auctions. The average auction sales
rate was 96% in fiscal 2012. Dealers pay a fee to us based on the sales price of the vehicles they purchase.

Customer Credit.We offer financing alternatives to customers throughout the credit spectrum through CAF and our arrangements with several industry-leading financial institutions. We believe our program enables us to capture additional sales and enhances the
CarMax consumer offer. Credit applications are initially reviewed by CAF. Customers who are not approved by CAF may be evaluated by the other financial institutions. Having an array of finance sources increases discrete approvals, expands finance
opportunities for our customers and mitigates risk to CarMax. In fiscal 2012, 87% of our applicants received an approval from one or more of our sources. We periodically test additional third-party providers.

Customers applying for financing provide credit information that is electronically submitted by sales consultants through our proprietary information
system. A majority of applicants receive a response within five minutes. Vehicles are financed using retail installment contracts secured by the vehicles. Customers are permitted to refinance or pay off their contract within three business days of a
purchase without incurring any finance or related charges. Third-party providers purchasing subprime finance contracts generally purchase these contracts at a discount, while providers purchasing prime and non-prime finance contracts generally pay
us a fixed, pre-negotiated fee per vehicle. We have no recourse liability on retail installment contracts arranged with third-party providers.

CarMax Auto Finance.We offer financing through CAF to qualified customers purchasing vehicles at CarMax. CAF utilizes proprietary scoring
models based upon the credit history of the customer along with CAF’s historical experience to predict the likelihood of customer repayment. We offer customers an array of competitive rates and terms, allowing them to choose the one that best
fits their needs. We randomly test different credit offers and closely monitor acceptance rates and 3-day payoffs to assess market competitiveness. After the effect of 3-day payoffs and vehicle returns, CAF financed 37% of our retail vehicle unit
sales in fiscal 2012. As of February 29, 2012, CAF serviced approximately 414,000 customers in its $4.98 billion portfolio of managed receivables. We maintain a dedicated website for CAF (www.carmaxautofinance.com) through which customers
can set up online payment plans and view and update account information.

Extended Service Plans and Guaranteed Asset
Protection.At the time of the sale, we offer the customer an ESP. We sell these plans on behalf of unrelated third parties that are the primary obligors. Under the third-party service plan programs, we have no contractual liability to the
customer. The ESPs we offer on all used vehicles provide coverage up to 72 months (subject to mileage limitations) and include multiple mileage and deductible options, depending on the vehicle odometer reading, make and model. We offer ESPs at
competitive, fixed prices, which are based primarily on the historical repair record of the vehicle make and model, the mileage option selected and the deductible chosen. All ESPs that we sell (other than manufacturer programs) have been designed to
our specifications and are administered by the third parties through private-label arrangements. We receive a commission from the administrator at the time of sale. In fiscal 2012, approximately 60% of the customers who purchased a used vehicle also
purchased an ESP.

Our ESP customers have access to vehicle repair service at each CarMax store and at thousands of independent and franchised
service providers. We believe that the quality of the services provided by this network, as well as the broad scope of our ESPs, helps promote customer satisfaction and loyalty, and thus increases the likelihood of repeat and referral business.

We also offer GAP at the time of the sale. GAP is a product that will pay the difference between the customer’s insurance settlement and
the finance contract payoff amount on their vehicle in the case of a total loss or unrecovered theft. We sell this product on behalf of an unrelated third party that is the primary obligor and we have no contractual liability to the customer. GAP
has been designed to our specifications and is administered by the third party through a private-label arrangement. We receive a commission from the administrator at the time of sale.

Systems

Our stores are supported by an advanced, proprietary information system that
improves the customer experience, while providing tightly integrated automation of all operating functions. Using a computer or smartphone, customers can search our entire vehicle inventory through our website, carmax.com. They can also print a
detailed listing for any vehicle from a computer, which includes the vehicle’s features and specifications and its location on the display lot. Our integrated inventory management system tracks every vehicle through its life from purchase
through reconditioning and test-drives to ultimate sale. Using radio frequency identification (“RFID”) tags, all vehicles are scanned and tracked daily as a loss prevention measure. Test-drive information is also captured on







every vehicle using RFID tags, linking the specific vehicle and the sales consultant. We also capture data on vehicles we wholesale, which helps us track market pricing. A computerized finance
application process and computer-assisted document preparation ensure rapid completion of the sales transaction. Behind the scenes, our proprietary store technology provides our management with real-time information about many aspects of store
operations, such as inventory management, pricing, vehicle transfers, wholesale auctions and sales consultant productivity. In addition, our store system provides a direct link to our proprietary credit processing information system to facilitate
the credit review and approval process of our in-house financing and third party providers.

Our proprietary inventory management and pricing
system is centralized and allows us to buy the mix of makes, models, age, mileage and price points tailored to customer buying preferences at each superstore. This system also generates recommended initial retail price points, as well as retail
price markdowns for specific vehicles based on complex algorithms that take into account factors including sales history, consumer interest and seasonal patterns. We believe this systematic approach to vehicle pricing allows us to optimize inventory
turns, which minimizes the depreciation risk inherent in used cars and helps us to achieve our targeted gross profit dollars per unit.

In
addition to inventory management, our Electronic Repair Order system (“ERO”) is used to sequence reconditioning procedures. ERO provides information that helps increase quality and reduce costs, which further enhances our customer service
and profitability.

Through our centralized systems, we are able to quickly integrate new stores into our store network. We continue to
enhance and refine our information systems, which we believe to be a core competitive advantage. The design of our information systems incorporates off-site backups, redundant processing and other measures to reduce the risk of significant data loss
in the event of an emergency or disaster.

Associates

On February 29, 2012, we had a total of 16,460 full- and part-time associates, including 12,394 hourly and salaried associates and 4,066 sales associates, who worked on a commission basis. We employ
additional associates during peak selling seasons. As of February 29, 2012, our location general managers averaged more than nine years of CarMax experience, in addition to prior retail management experience. We staff each newly opened store
with associates who have extensive CarMax training.

We believe we have created a unique corporate culture and maintain good employee
relations. No associate is subject to a collective bargaining agreement. We focus on providing our associates with the information and resources they need to offer exceptional customer service. We reward associates whose behavior exemplifies our
culture, and we believe that our favorable working conditions and compensation programs allow us to attract and retain highly qualified individuals. We have been recognized for the success of our efforts by a number of external organizations.

Training.To further support our emphasis on attracting, developing and retaining qualified associates, we have made a
commitment to providing exceptional training programs. Store associates receive many hours of structured, self-paced training that introduces them to company policies and their specific job responsibilities through KMX University (“KMXU”)
– our intranet-based, on-premises learning management system. KMXU is comprised of customized applications hosted within a learning management system that allow us to author, deliver and track training events and to measure associate competency
after training. KMXU also provides a variety of learning activities and collaborative discussions delivered through an integrated virtual classroom system. Most new store associates are also assigned mentors who provide on-the-job guidance and
support.

We also provide comprehensive, facilitator-led classroom training courses at the associate and manager levels. All sales consultants
go through a four-phase on-boarding process in which they are partnered with a mentor, combining self-paced online training with shadowing and role-playing. Our professional selling skills training provides sales associates the opportunity to learn
and practice customer-oriented selling techniques. This online training program contains modules on a variety of skill sets, including building confidence, connecting with the customer, and listening and persuasion techniques. We also have a call
recording and review program to provide constructive feedback to associates on how to improve their interactions with customers. Buyers-in-training undergo a 6- to 18-month apprenticeship under the supervision of experienced buyers, and
they generally will assist with the appraisal of more than 1,000 cars before making their first independent purchase. Business office associates undergo a 3- to 6-month, four-phase on-the-job certification process in order to be fully
cross-trained in all functional areas of the business office. All business office associates and managers also receive regular training through facilitated competency-based training courses. We utilize a mix of internal and external technical
training programs in an effort to provide a stable future supply of qualified technicians. The technicians attend in-house and







vendor-sponsored training programs designed to develop their skills in performing repairs on the diverse makes and models of vehicles we sell. Technicians at our new car franchises also attend
manufacturer-sponsored training programs to stay abreast of current diagnostic, repair and maintenance techniques for those manufacturers’ vehicles. Most new managers attend an intensive week-long workshop at the home office where they meet
with senior leaders and learn fundamental CarMax management skills.

Laws and Regulations

Vehicle Dealer and Other Laws and Regulations.We operate in a highly regulated industry. In every state in which we operate, we must obtain
various licenses and permits in order to conduct business, including dealer, service, sales and finance licenses issued by state and local regulatory authorities. A wide range of federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the manner in
which we conduct business, including advertising, sales, financing and employment practices. These laws include consumer protection laws, privacy laws and state franchise laws, as well as other laws and regulations applicable to new and used motor
vehicle dealers. These laws also include federal and state wage-hour, anti-discrimination and other employment practices laws. Our financing activities with customers are subject to federal truth-in-lending, consumer leasing, equal credit
opportunity and fair credit reporting laws and regulations, as well as state and local motor vehicle finance, collection, repossession and installment finance laws.

Claims arising out of actual or alleged violations of law could be asserted against us by individuals or governmental authorities and could expose us to significant damages or other penalties, including
revocation or suspension of the licenses necessary to conduct business and fines.

Environmental Laws and Regulations.We
are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations that pertain to the environment. Our business involves the use, handling and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes, including motor oil, gasoline, solvents, lubricants,
paints and other substances. We are subject to compliance with regulations concerning the operation of underground and aboveground gasoline storage tanks, gasoline dispensing equipment, above-ground oil tanks and automotive paint booths.

AVAILABILITY OF REPORTS AND OTHER INFORMATION

The following items are available free of charge through the “Corporate Governance” link on our investor information home page at investor.carmax.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after
filing or furnishing the material to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”): annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements on Schedule 14A, and any amendments to
those reports. In addition, the following documents are also available free of charge on our website: Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Business Conduct, and the charters of the Audit Committee, Nominating and Governance Committee, and
Compensation and Personnel Committee. We publish any changes to these documents on our website. We also promptly disclose reportable waivers of the Code of Business Conduct on our website. The contents of our website are not, however, part of this
report.

Printed copies of these documents are also available to any shareholder, without charge, upon written request to our corporate
secretary at the address set forth on the cover page of this report.



