ITEM 1.    BUSINESS



General



Monolithic Power Systems (“MPS”) is a leading company in high performance power solutions. Founded in 1997, MPS pioneered integrated power semiconductor solutions and power delivery architectures. MPS's mission is to provide innovative power solutions in cloud computing, telecommunications, industrial and automotive, and consumer market segments. MPS has over 1,000 employees worldwide, located in the United States, China, Taiwan, Korea, Japan and across Europe.



Industry Overview



Semiconductors comprise the basic building blocks of electronic systems and equipment. Within the semiconductor industry, components can be classified either as discrete devices, such as individual transistors, or as ICs, in which a number of transistors and other elements are combined to form a more complicated electronic circuit. ICs can be further divided into three primary categories: digital, analog, and mixed-signal. Digital ICs, such as memory devices and microprocessors, can store or perform arithmetic functions on data that is represented by a series of ones and zeroes. Analog ICs, in contrast, handle real world signals such as temperature, pressure, light, sound, or speed. In addition, analog ICs also perform power management functions, such as regulating or converting voltages, for electronic devices. Mixed-signal ICs combine digital and analog functions onto a single chip and play an important role in bridging real world phenomena to digital systems.



Analog and Mixed-Signal Markets.We focus on the market for ‘high performance’ analog and mixed-signal ICs. ‘High performance’ products generally are differentiated by functionality and performance factors which include integration of higher levels of functionality onto a single chip, greater precision, higher speed and lower heat and noise. There are several key factors that distinguish analog and mixed-signal IC markets, and in particular the high performance portion of the analog and mixed signal IC market, from digital IC markets. These factors include longer product life cycles, numerous market segments, technology that is difficult to replicate, relative complexity of design and process technology, importance of experienced design engineers, lower capital requirements and diversity of end markets.  We have, however, targeted product and market areas that we believe have the ability to offer above average industry growth over the long term.



Acquisition



In July 2014, we completed the acquisition of Sensima Technology SA (“Sensima”), a company based in Switzerland that develops magnetic sensors for angle measurement as well as three-dimensional magnetic field sensing. Sensima’s products are based on Hall devices that are directly integrated with the signal treatment and instantaneously detect and deliver the angle value in digital format. Their angle sensors are used in rotary encoders, electronically commutated motors and a broad range of products. By combining Sensima’s real time precision magnetic angle sensing with our technologies, we expect to create new opportunities with customers by offering enhanced solutions in power management for key industries such as automotive, industrial and cloud computing.



For a detailed discussion of the terms of the acquisition, please refer to Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements under Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



Products and Applications



We currently have two primary product families that address multiple applications within the storage and computing, consumer electronics, communications, and industrial/automotive markets. Our products are differentiated with respect to their high degree of integration and strong levels of accuracy and efficiency, making them cost-effective relative to many competing solutions. These product families include:



Direct Current (DC) to DC Products.DC to DC ICs are used to convert and control voltages within a broad range of electronic systems, such as portable electronic devices, wireless LAN access points, computers, set top boxes, TVs and monitors, automobiles and medical equipment. We believe that our DC to DC products are differentiated in the market, particularly with respect to their high degree of integration, high voltage operation, high load current, high switching speed and small footprint. These features are important to our customers as they result in fewer components, a smaller form factor, more accurate regulation of voltages, and, ultimately, lower system cost and increased reliability through the elimination of many discrete components and power devices. The DC to DC product family accounted for 90%, 89% and 88% of our total revenue in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively.






Lighting Control Products and AC/DC Offline Solutions.Lighting control ICs are used in backlighting and general illumination products. Lighting control ICs for backlighting are used in systems that provide the light source for LCD panels typically found in notebook computers, LCD monitors, car navigation systems, and LCD televisions. Backlighting solutions are typically either white light emitting diode (WLED) lighting sources or cold cathode fluorescent lamps (CCFL). WLED lighting control ICs step-up or step-down a DC voltage, or convert from an AC line voltage supplied by the utility company (also called AC/DC Offline) and provide efficient precision power and protection to a LED string or to multiple LED strings. The CCFL ICs function by converting low-voltage direct current (DC) or battery voltage to high-voltage alternating current (AC). We believe our CCFL ICs were the first to utilize a full bridge resonant topology that allows for high efficiency, extended lifetimes for CCFLs, and lower signal interference with adjacent components. The full bridge topology is now the industry standard for these products. The Lighting Control product family accounted for 10%, 11% and 12% of our total revenue in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively.



In addition to AC/DC offline solutions for lighting illumination applications, we also offer AC/DC power conversion solutions for a diverse number of end products that plug into a wall outlet.



We currently target our products at the consumer electronics, communications, storage and computing, and industrial markets, with the consumer electronics market representing the largest portion of our revenue.



The following is a brief summary of our product family for various applications. For each of these applications, we are currently shipping products or have design wins, which are decisions by original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) or original design manufacturers (ODMs) to use our ICs:



ApplicationsWLEDLightingIllumination(non-backlight)LCDBacklight(Invertersor WLED)DC to DCConverters(Buck &Boost)µP Reset &SupervisoryAudioAmplifiersAC/DCOfflineChargers(Switching &Linear)CurrentLimitSwitchesStorage andComputingComputersXXXXXXXLCD MonitorsXXXXXDisk Drives/ Storage NetworksXXXConsumer ElectronicsSet Top BoxesXXXXXXBlu-Ray & DVD PlayersXXXXXDigital Still CamerasXXXXCommercial & Industrial Bulb & CFL ReplacementXXXGPS and Infotainment systemsXXXXXXCommunicationsCellular HandsetsXXXXXNetworking InfrastructureXXXVOIPXXWireless Access PointsXXXIndustrialAutomotiveXXXXXXIndustrial ApplicationsXXXXXX



We derive a majority of our revenue from our DC to DC IC product family sold to the consumer electronics, communications, storage and computing and industrial markets.  In the future, we will continue to introduce additional new products within our existing product families, such as high current, high voltage, small form factor switching voltage regulators, as well as expand our newer product families in battery chargers, voltage references and low dropout regulators. Our ability to achieve revenue growth will depend in part upon our ability to enter new market segments, gain market share, grow in regions outside of China, Taiwan and other Asian markets, expand our customer base and successfully secure manufacturing capacity.



For a detailed discussion of our revenue by product family, please refer to Note 16 to our consolidated financial statements under Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.






Customers, Sales and Marketing



We sell our products through third party distributors, value-added resellers and directly to OEMs, ODMs, and electronic manufacturing service (EMS) providers. Our third party distributors are subject to distribution agreements with us which allow the distributor to sell our products to end customers and other resellers.  Distributors may distribute our products to end customers which include OEMs, ODMs or EMS providers.  Our value-added resellers may second source our products and provide other services to customers. ODMs typically design and manufacture electronic products on behalf of OEMs, and EMS providers typically provide manufacturing services for OEMs and other electronic product suppliers.



Sales to our largest distributor accounted for approximately 26% of revenue in 2014, 32% of revenue in 2013 and 32% of revenue in 2012. In addition, one other distributor accounted for 10% of revenue in 2013. No other customers accounted for more than 10% of revenue in any periods presented.



Current distribution agreements with several of our major distributors provide that each distributor shall have the non-exclusive right to sell and use its best efforts to promote and develop a market for our products. These agreements provide that payment for purchases from us will generally occur within 30 to 45 days from the date of invoice.  In addition, we allow for limited stock rotation in certain agreements.



We have sales offices located in the United States, Taiwan, China, Korea and Japan and have marketing representatives in Europe and Singapore. Our products typically require a highly technical sales and applications engineering effort where we assist our customers in the design and use of our products in their application.  We maintain a staff of applications engineers who work directly with our customers’ engineers in the development of their systems’ electronics containing our products.



Because our sales are billed and payable in United States dollars, our sales are not directly subject to fluctuating currency exchange rates. However, because a majority of our revenue is attributable to direct or indirect sales to customers in Asia, changes in the relative value of the dollar may create pricing pressures for our products. For the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, approximately 91%, 90% and 89% of our revenue was from customers in Asia, respectively.



Our sales are made primarily pursuant to standard individual purchase orders. Our backlog consists of orders that we have received from customers which have not yet shipped. Our manufacturing lead times are generally 4 to 12 weeks and we often build inventory in advance of customer orders based on our forecast of future customer orders. This subjects us to certain risks, most notably the possibility that sales will not meet our forecast, which could lead to inventories in excess of demand. If excess inventory exists, it may be necessary for us to sell it at a substantial discount, take a significant write-down or dispose of it altogether, either of which would negatively affect our profit margins.



We operate in the cyclical semiconductor industry where there is seasonal demand for certain of our products. While we are not and will not be immune from current and future industry downturns, we have targeted product and market areas that we believe have the ability to offer above average industry performance over the long term.



Research and Development



We have assembled a qualified team of engineers in the United States and China with core competencies in analog and mixed-signal design. Through our research and development efforts, we have developed a collection of intellectual property and know-how that we are able to leverage across our products and markets. These include the development of high efficiency power devices, the design of precision analog circuits, expertise in mixed-signal integration and the development of proprietary semiconductor process technologies.



Our research and development efforts are generally targeted at three areas: systems architecture, circuit design and implementation, and process technology. In the area of systems architecture, we are exploring new ways of solving our customers’ system design challenges and are investing in the development of systems expertise in new markets and applications that align well with our core capabilities. In the area of circuit design and implementation, our initiatives include expanding our portfolio of products and adding new features to our products. In the area of process technology, we are investing research and development resources to provide leading-edge analog power processes for our next generation of integrated circuits. Process technology is a key strategic component to our future growth.



Our research and development expenses totaled $58.6 million, $49.7 million and $48.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively.



Patents and Intellectual Property Matters



We rely on our proprietary technologies, which include both our proprietary circuit designs for our products and our proprietary manufacturing process technologies. Our future success and competitive position depend in part upon our ability to obtain and maintain protection of our proprietary technologies.








In general, we have elected to pursue patent protection for aspects of our circuit and device designs that we believe are patentable and to protect our manufacturing process technologies by maintaining those process technologies as trade secrets. As of December 31, 2014, we had approximately 1,172 patents/applications issued or pending, of which 223 patents have been issued in the United States. Our issued patents are scheduled to expire at various times through December 2034.



Our patents are material to our business, but we do not rely on any one particular patent for our success. We also rely on a combination of nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions, as well as our employees’ commitment to confidentiality and loyalty, to protect our technology, know-how, and processes. We also seek to register certain of our trademarks as we deem appropriate. We have not registered any of our copyrights and do not believe registration of copyrights is material to our business. Despite precautions that we take, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy aspects of our current or future technology or products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. There can be no assurance that the steps we take will be adequate to protect our proprietary rights, that our patent applications will lead to issued patents, that others will not develop or patent similar or superior products or technologies, or that our patents will not be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented by others. Furthermore, the laws of the countries in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured or sold may not protect our products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as laws in the United States. Our failure to adequately protect our proprietary technologies could materially harm our business.



The semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent claims of infringement and litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. For a more complete description of our legal matters, please read Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements. Patent infringement is an ongoing risk, in part because other companies in our industry could have patent rights that may not be identifiable when we initiate development efforts. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, and we may have to defend ourselves against infringement claims. Any such litigation could be very costly and may divert our management resources. Further, we have agreed to indemnify certain of our customers and suppliers in some circumstances against liability from infringement by our products. In the event any third party were to make an infringement claim against us or our customers, we could be enjoined from selling selected products or could be required to indemnify our customers or suppliers or pay royalties or other damages to third parties. If any of our products is found to infringe and we are unable to obtain necessary licenses or other rights on acceptable terms, we would either have to change our product so that it does not infringe or stop making the infringing product, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows.



Manufacturing



We utilize a fabless business model, working with third parties to manufacture and assemble our integrated circuits. This fabless approach allows us to focus our engineering and design resources on our strengths and to reduce our fixed costs and capital expenditures. In contrast to many fabless semiconductor companies, who utilize standard process technologies and design rules established by their foundry partners, we have developed our own proprietary process technology and collaborate with our foundry partners to install our technology on their equipment in their facilities for use solely on our behalf. This close collaboration and control over the manufacturing process has historically resulted in favorable yields and product performance for our integrated circuits.



We currently contract with three suppliers to manufacture our wafers in foundries located in China. Once our silicon wafers have been produced, they are shipped to our facility in Chengdu, China for wafer sort. Our semiconductor products are then assembled and packaged by independent subcontractors in China and Malaysia. The assembled ICs are then sent for final testing primarily at our Chengdu facility prior to shipping to our customers.



In September 2004, we entered into a lease arrangement for our manufacturing facility located in Chengdu, China. We have the option to acquire the facility for approximately $1.6 million which consists of total construction costs minus total rent paid by us during the lease term. This option became exercisable in March 2011. We may exercise our purchase option and enter into a purchase agreement for this facility in the future. The facility has been fully operational since 2006 and we have benefitted from shorter manufacturing cycle times and lower labor and overhead costs. We have expanded our product testing capabilities in our China facility and are able to take advantage of the rich pool of local engineering talent to expand our manufacturing support and engineering operations.



In addition, we constructed a 150,000 square-foot research and development facility in Chengdu, China which was put into operation in October 2010.



Key Personnel and Employees



Our performance is substantially dependent on the performance of our executive officers and key employees. Due to the relative complexity of the design of our analog and mixed-signal ICs, our engineers generally have more years of experience and greater circuit design aptitude than the more prevalent digital circuit design engineer. Analog engineers with advanced skills are limited in number and difficult to replace. The loss of the services of key officers, managers, engineers and other technical personnel would materially harm our business. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to attract, train, retain, and motivate highly qualified technical and managerial personnel.  We may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. Our employees are not represented by a collective bargaining organization, and we have never experienced a work stoppage or strike. Our management considers employee relations to be good. As of December 31, 2014, we employed 1,178 employees located in the United States, Taiwan, China, Japan, Korea, Europe and Singapore.








Competition



The analog and mixed-signal semiconductor industry is highly competitive, and we expect competitive pressures to continue. Our ability to compete effectively and to expand our business will depend on our ability to continue to recruit both applications engineering and design engineering personnel, our ability to introduce new products, and our ability to maintain the rate at which we introduce these new products. Our industry is characterized by decreasing unit selling prices over the life of a product. We compete with domestic and international semiconductor companies, many of which have substantially greater financial and other resources with which to pursue engineering, manufacturing, marketing, and distribution of their products. We are in direct and active competition, with respect to one or more of our product lines, with at least 10 manufacturers of such products, of varying size and financial strength. The number of our competitors has grown due to expansion of the market segments in which we participate. We consider our primary competitors to include Analog Devices, Fairchild Semiconductor, International Rectifier, Intersil Corporation, Linear Technology, Maxim Integrated Products, Micrel Inc., Microchip Technology, Microsemi Corporation, O2 Micro International, ON Semiconductor, Power Integrations, Inc., Richtek Technology Corporation, Rohm Co., Ltd., Semtech Corporation, STMicroelectronics N.V., and Texas Instruments Incorporated.



We expect continued competition from existing competitors as well as competition from new entrants into the semiconductor market. We believe that we are competitive in the markets in which we sell, particularly because our ICs typically are smaller in size, are highly integrated, possess higher levels of power management functionalities and achieve high performance specifications at lower price points than most of our competition. However, we cannot assure you that our products will continue to compete favorably or that we will be successful in the face of increasing competition from new products and enhancements introduced by existing competitors or new companies entering this market.



Geographical and Segment Information



Please refer to the geographical and segment information for each of the last three fiscal years in Note 16 to our consolidated financial statements.



Please refer to the discussion of risks related to our foreign operations in the section entitled “Item 1A: Risk Factors.”



Available Information



We were incorporated in California in 1997 and reincorporated in Delaware in November 2004. Our executive offices are located at 79 Great Oaks Boulevard, San Jose CA 95119. Our telephone number is (408) 826-0600. Our e-mail address is investors@monolithicpower.com, and our website is www.monolithicpower.com. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge. They may be obtained from our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or at the SEC website at www.sec.gov. Information contained on our website is not a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



Executive Officers of the Registrant



Information regarding our executive officers as of February 28, 2015 is as follows:



NameAgePositionMichael R. Hsing55President, CEO and DirectorMeera P. Rao54CFO and Principal Financial and Accounting OfficerDeming Xiao52President of Asia OperationsMaurice Sciammas55Senior Vice President of Worldwide Sales and MarketingSaria Tseng44Vice President, Strategic Corporate Development, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary



Michael R. Hsinghas served on our board of directors and has served as our President and Chief Executive Officer since founding MPS in August 1997. Before founding MPS, Mr. Hsing held senior technical positions at companies such as Supertex, Inc. and Micrel, Inc. Mr. Hsing is an inventor on numerous patents related to the process development of bipolar mixed-signal semiconductor manufacturing. Mr. Hsing holds a B.S.E.E. from the University of Florida.








Meera P. Raohas served as our Chief Financial Officer since January 2011. Ms. Rao joined us in January 2009 and served as our Vice President of Finance and Corporate Controller. Prior to joining MPS, she was the principal in her own consulting practice, working with various semiconductor companies, including MPS, where she set up our business operations in Chengdu, China in 2006.  Ms. Rao has more than 20 years of experience with semiconductor and high technology companies and has held various senior executive positions, including CFO of Integration Associates, Vice President of Finance and Interim CFO at Atrica, Vice President of Finance at Raza Foundries, Corporate Controller and Interim CFO at nVIDIA, as well as various positions at Advanced Micro Devices.  Ms. Rao is a CPA and holds an MBA from the University of Rochester.



Maurice Sciammashas served as our Senior Vice President of Worldwide Sales and Marketing since 2007. Mr. Sciammas joined MPS in July 1999 and served as Vice President of Products and Vice President of Sales (excluding greater China) until he was appointed to his current position.  Before joining MPS, he was Director of IC Products at Supertex from 1990 to 1999. He has also held positions at Micrel, Inc. He holds a B.S.E.E. degree from San Jose State University.



Deming Xiaohas served as our President of Asia Operations since January 2008. Since joining us in May 2001, Mr. Xiao has held several executive positions, including Foundry Manager and Senior Vice President of Operations. Before joining us, from June 2000 to May 2001, Mr. Xiao was Engineering Account Manager at Chartered Semiconductor Manufacturing, Inc. Prior to that, Mr. Xiao spent six years as the Manager of Process Integration Engineering at Fairchild Imaging Sensors. Mr. Xiao holds a B.S. in Semiconductor Physics from Sichuan University, Chengdu, China and an M.S.E.E. from Wayne State University.



Saria Tsenghas served as our Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since 2004 and additionally as our Vice President, Strategic Corporate Development since 2009. Ms. Tseng joined MPS from MaXXan Systems, Inc. where she was Vice President and General Counsel from 2001 to 2004. Previously, Ms. Tseng was an attorney at Gray Cary Ware & Freidenrich, LLP and Jones, Day, Reavis & Pogue.  Ms. Tseng is a member of the state bar in both California and New York and is a member of the bar association of the Republic of China (Taiwan). She holds Masters of Law degrees from the University of California at Berkeley and the Chinese Culture University in Taipei.



