ITEM 1.BUSINESS



General



Monolithic Power Systems designs, develops and markets proprietary, advanced analog and mixed-signal semiconductors. We combine advanced process technology with our highly experienced analog designers to produce high-performance power
management integrated circuits (ICs) for DC to DC converters, LED drivers, Cold Cathode Fluorescent Lamp (CCFL) backlight controllers, Class-D audio amplifiers, and other Linear ICs. Our products are used extensively in computing and network
communications products, flat panel TVs, set top boxes and a wide variety of consumer and portable electronics products. We partner with world-class manufacturing organizations to deliver top quality, ultra-compact, high-performance solutions
through productive, cost-efficient channels. Founded in 1997 and headquartered in San Jose, California, we have expanded our global presence with offices in Taiwan, China, Korea, Japan, and Europe, which operate under MPS International, Ltd.



Industry Overview



Semiconductors comprise the basic building blocks of electronic systems
and equipment. Within the semiconductor industry, components can be classified either as discrete devices, such as individual transistors, or as ICs, in which a number of transistors and other elements are combined to form a more complicated
electronic circuit. ICs can be further divided into three primary categories: digital, analog, and mixed-signal. Digital ICs, such as memory devices and microprocessors, can store or perform arithmetic functions on data that is represented by a
series of ones and zeroes. Analog ICs, in contrast, handle real world signals such as temperature, pressure, light, sound, or speed. In addition, analog ICs also perform power management functions, such as regulating or converting voltages, for
electronic devices. Mixed-signal ICs combine digital and analog functions onto a single chip and play an important role in bridging real world phenomena to digital systems.



Analog and Mixed-Signal Markets.We focus on the market for ‘high
performance’ analog and mixed-signal ICs. ‘High performance’ products generally are differentiated by functionality and performance factors which include integration of higher levels of functionality onto a single chip, greater
precision, higher speed and lower heat and noise. There are several key factors that distinguish analog and mixed-signal IC markets from digital IC markets and in particular the high performance portion of the analog and mixed signal IC market.
These factors include longer product life cycles, numerous market segments, technology that is difficult to replicate, relative complexity of design and process technology, importance of experienced design engineers, lower capital
requirements and diversity of end markets. We have, however, targeted product and market areas that we believe have the ability to offer above average industry growth over the long term.



Products and Applications



We currently have three primary product families that address multiple
applications within the computing, consumer electronics, and communications markets. Our products are differentiated with respect to their high degree of integration and strong levels of accuracy and efficiency, making them cost-effective relative
to many competing solutions. These product families include:



Direct Current (DC) to DC Converters.DC to DC converter ICs are used to convert and control voltages within a broad range of electronic systems, such as portable electronic devices, wireless LAN access
points, computers, set top boxes, automobiles and medical equipment. We believe that our DC to DC converters are differentiated in the market, particularly with respect to their







high degree of integration and rapid switching speeds. These features are important to our customers as they result in fewer components, a smaller form factor, more accurate regulation of
voltages, and, ultimately, lower system cost and increased reliability through the elimination of many discrete components and power devices.



Lighting Control Products.Lighting control ICs are used in backlighting and general illumination products.
Lighting control ICs for backlighting are used in systems that provide the light source for LCD panels typically found in notebook computers, LCD monitors, car navigational systems, and LCD televisions. Backlighting solutions are typically either
cold cathode fluorescent lamps (CCFL) or WLED lighting sources. The CCFL ICs function by converting low-voltage direct current (DC) or battery voltage to high-voltage alternating current (AC). We believe our CCFL ICs were the first to utilize a full
bridge resonant topology that allows for high efficiency, extended lifetimes for cold cathode fluorescent lamps (CCFLs), and lower signal interference with adjacent components. The full bridge topology is now the industry standard for these
products. WLED lighting control ICs step-up or step-down a DC voltage and provide efficient precision power and protection to a LED string or to multiple LED strings.



Audio Amplifiers.Audio amplifier ICs are used to amplify sound produced by audio
processors. We currently offer Class-D audio amplifiers, which are well-suited for applications that require both a small form factor and high power efficiency, such as plasma televisions, LCD televisions and DVD players. With today’s systems
becoming smaller and utilizing larger amounts of power, solution sizes and the management of heat dissipation are becoming increasingly important to the overall system design. The high degree of power efficiency and small form factor provided by our
Class-D audio amplifiers allows system vendors to significantly reduce heat dissipation, eliminating the costly and sizable fans and heat sinks traditionally required by audio amplifier ICs. These features enable our customers to achieve their
design and cost objectives without sacrificing sound quality.



We currently target our products at the consumer electronics, communications and computing markets, with the consumer market representing the largest portion of our revenue.







The following is a brief summary of our product family solutions for various applications. For each of
these applications, we are currently shipping product or have design wins, which are decisions by original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, or original design manufacturers, or ODMs, to use our ICs:



ApplicationWLEDLightingIllumination(non-backlight)LCDBacklight(Invertersor WLED)DC to DCConverters(Buck &Boost)µP Reset &SupervisoryAudioAmplifiersXenonFlashChargers(Switching& Linear)CurrentLimitSwitchesComputingComputers and PDA devicesXXXXXXLCD MonitorsXXXXDisk Drives/Storage NetworksXXConsumer ElectronicsLCD TV DisplaysXXXXXPlasma TV DisplaysXXXXXSet Top BoxesXXXXBlu-Ray & DVD PlayersXXXXDigital Still CamerasXXXXXCommercial & Industrial Bulb & CFL ReplacementXGPS and Infotainment systemsXXXXXCommunicationsCellular HandsetsXXXXNetworking InfrastructureXXVOIPXXWireless Access PointsXX



We derive a majority of our
revenue from the sales of our DC to DC converter IC product family to the computing, consumer electronics and communications markets. In the future, we will continue to introduce additional new products within our existing product families, such as
high current, high voltage, small form factor switching voltage regulators, as well as expand our newer product families in battery chargers, voltage references and low dropout regulators. Our ability to achieve revenue growth will depend in part
upon our ability to enter new market segments, gain market share, grow in regions outside of Greater China, expand our customer base and successfully secure manufacturing capacity.



Please refer to the table showing our revenue by product family in the section entitled “Item 7. Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations”.







Customers, Sales, and Marketing



We sell our products through third party distributors, value-added resellers and directly to OEMs, ODMs, and electronic manufacturing
service (EMS) providers. Our third party distributors are subject to distribution agreements with us which allow the distributor to sell our products to end customers and other resellers. Distributors may distribute our products to end customers
which include OEMs, ODMs or EMS providers. Our value-added resellers may second source our products and provide other services to customers. ODMs typically design and manufacture electronic products on behalf of OEMs, and EMS providers typically
provide manufacturing services for OEMs and other electronic product suppliers. The following is a summary for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 of those customers that accounted for more than 10% of our total revenue in one or
more of these years:



RevenueYear ended December 31,Customers200920082007A13%20%18%B10%10%15%C10%**



Current distribution agreements with several of our major distributors provide that each distributor shall have the non-exclusive right to sell and use
its best efforts to promote and develop a market for our products in several countries in Asia. These agreements may be terminated by either us or the distributor on up to three months’ notice. These agreements provide that payment for
purchases from us will generally occur within 30 to 45 days from the date of invoice. In addition, we allow for limited stock rotation in certain agreements.



We have sales offices located in the United States, Taiwan, China, Korea and Japan and have marketing representatives in Europe. Our products typically
require a highly technical sales and applications engineering effort where we assist our customers in the design and use of our products in their application. We maintain a staff of applications engineers who work directly with our customers’
engineers in the development of their systems electronics containing our products.



Because our sales are billed and payable in United States dollars, our sales are not directly subject to fluctuating currency exchange rates. However, because 84% of our revenue in 2009 was attributable to direct
or indirect sales to customers in Asia, changes in the relative value of the dollar may create pricing pressures for our products.



Our sales are made primarily pursuant to standard individual purchase orders. Our backlog consists of orders that we have received from customers which
have not yet shipped. Our shippable backlog at December 31, 2009 was $27.8 million. We believe that backlog is not necessarily a good indicator of our future sales. Order lead times may vary, and, as is common within our industry, customers are
allowed to reschedule or cancel orders on relatively short notice. Our quarterly revenue is also influenced by orders booked and shipped within that quarter which are not reflected as backlog at the end of any preceding quarter. Our manufacturing
lead times are generally 4 to 12 weeks and we often build inventory in advance of customer orders based on our forecast of future customer orders. This subjects us to certain risks, most notably the possibility that sales will not meet our forecast,
which could lead to inventories in excess of demand. If excess inventory exists, it may be necessary for us to sell it at a substantial discount or dispose of it altogether, either of which would negatively affect our profit margins.



We operate in the cyclical semiconductor industry where there is seasonal
demand for certain of our products. While we are not and will not be immune from current and future industry downturns, we have targeted product and market areas that we believe have the ability to offer above average industry performance over the
long term.







Research and Development



We have assembled a qualified team of engineers in the United States, China and Europe with core competencies in analog
and mixed-signal design. Through our research and development efforts, we have developed a collection of intellectual property and know-how that we are able to leverage across our products and markets. These include the development of high
efficiency power devices, the design of precision analog circuits, expertise in mixed-signal integration and the development of proprietary semiconductor process technologies.



Our research and development efforts are generally targeted at three areas: systems architecture, circuit design and
implementation, and process technology. In the area of systems architecture, we are exploring new ways of solving our customers’ system design challenges and are investing in the development of systems expertise in new markets and applications
that align well with our core capabilities. In the area of circuit design and implementation, our initiatives include expanding our portfolio of products and adding new features to our products.



Please refer to the discussion of the amount spent on research and
development during each of the last three fiscal years in the section entitled “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations—Research and Development”.
In the area of process technology, we are investing research and development resources to provide leading-edge analog power processes for our next generation of integrated circuits. Process technology is a key strategic component to our future
growth.



Patents and Intellectual Property Matters



We rely on our proprietary technologies, which include both our
proprietary circuit designs for our products and our proprietary manufacturing process technologies. Our future success and competitive position depend in part upon our ability to obtain and maintain protection of our proprietary technologies.











Manufacturing



We utilize a fabless business model, working with third parties to
manufacture and assemble our integrated circuits. This fabless approach allows us to focus our engineering and design resources on our strengths and to reduce our fixed costs and capital expenditures. In contrast to many fabless semiconductor
companies, who utilize standard process technologies and design rules established by their foundry partners, we have developed our own proprietary process technology and collaborate with our foundry partners to install our technology on their
equipment in their facilities for use solely on our behalf. This close collaboration and control over the manufacturing process has historically resulted in favorable yields and product performance for our integrated circuits.



We currently contract with two suppliers to manufacture our wafers in
foundries located in China. Once our silicon wafers have been produced, they are shipped to our facility in Chengdu, China for wafer sort. Our semiconductor products are then assembled and packaged by independent subcontractors in Malaysia and
China. The assembled ICs are then sent for final testing at our Chengdu facility prior to shipping to our customers.



In September 2004, we signed an agreement with a Chinese local authority to construct a facility in Chengdu, China, initially for the testing of our
ICs. Pursuant to this agreement, we agreed to contribute capital in the form of cash, in-kind assets, and/or intellectual property, of at least $5.0 million to our wholly-owned Chinese subsidiary as the registered capital for the subsidiary and have
exercised the option to purchase land use rights for the facility for approximately $0.2 million. We also have the option to acquire the facility after a five-year lease term for the original construction cost less rents paid, which is currently
estimated at $2.0 million, which option becomes exercisable in March 2011. We will likely enter into a purchase agreement for this facility at the end of the lease term. The facility has been fully operational since 2006 and we have benefitted from
shorter manufacturing cycle times and lower labor and overhead costs. Furthermore, we are continuing to expand our product testing capabilities in our China facility and are able to take advantage of the rich pool of local engineering talent to
expand our manufacturing support and engineering operations.



Key
Personnel and Employees



Our performance is
substantially dependent on the performance of our executive officers and key employees. Due to the relative complexity of the design of our analog and mixed-signal ICs, our engineers generally have more years of experience and greater circuit design
aptitude than the more prevalent digital circuit design engineer. Analog engineers with advanced skills are limited in number







and difficult to replace. The loss of the services of key officers, managers, engineers and other technical personnel would harm the business. Our future success will depend, in part, on our
ability to attract, train, retain, and motivate highly qualified technical and managerial personnel. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. Our employees are not represented by a collective bargaining organization, and
we have never experienced a work stoppage or strike. Our management considers employee relations to be good. As of December 31, 2009, we employed 692 employees located in the United States, Taiwan, China, Japan, Korea and Europe.



Competition



The analog and mixed-signal semiconductor industry is highly competitive, and we expect competitive pressures to
continue. Our ability to compete effectively and to expand our business will depend on our ability to continue to recruit both applications engineering and design engineering personnel, our ability to introduce new products, and our ability to
maintain the rate at which we introduce these new products. Our industry is characterized by decreasing unit selling prices over the life of a product. We compete with domestic and international semiconductor companies, many of which have
substantially greater financial and other resources with which to pursue engineering, manufacturing, marketing, and distribution of their products. We are in direct and active competition, with respect to one or more of our product lines, with at
least 10 manufacturers of such products, of varying size and financial strength. The number of our competitors has grown due to expansion of the market segments in which we participate. We consider our primary competitors to include Fairchild
Semiconductor International, Intersil Corporation, Linear Technology, Maxim Integrated Products, Micrel Inc., Microsemi Corporation, National Semiconductor Corporation, O2Micro International, Richtek Technology Corporation, Rohm Co., Ltd., Semtech
Corporation, STMicroelectronics N.V., Texas Instruments Incorporated and Volterra.



We expect continued competition from existing competitors as well as competition from new entrants into the semiconductor market. We believe that we are competitive with respect to these factors, particularly
because our ICs typically are smaller in size, are highly integrated, possess higher levels of power management functionalities and achieve high performance specifications at lower price points than most of our competition. However, we cannot assure
you that our products will continue to compete favorably or that we will be successful in the face of increasing competition from new products and enhancements introduced by existing competitors or new companies entering this market.



Geographical and Segment Information



Please refer to the geographical and segment information for each of the
last three fiscal years in Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements.



Please refer to the discussion of risks attendant to our foreign operations in the section entitled “Item 1A: Risk Factors”.



Available Information



We were incorporated in California in 1997 and reincorporated in Delaware in November 2004. Our executive offices are located at 6409 Guadalupe Mines
Road, San Jose, CA 95120. Our telephone number is (408) 826-0600. Our e-mail address is investors@monolithicpower.com, and our website is www.monolithicpower.com. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports
on Form 8-K, and amendments to those filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge. These may be obtained from our website, as soon as reasonably practicable
after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or at the SEC website at www.sec.gov. Information contained on our website is not a part of this Form 10-K.







Executive Officers of the Registrant



The executive officers of the Company, and their ages as of
February 1, 2010 are as follows:



NameAgePositionMichael R. Hsing50President, Chief Executive Officer, and DirectorRick Neely55CFO, Senior Vice President of Finance and Principal Financial and Accounting OfficerDeming Xiao47President of MPS Asia OperationsMaurice Sciammas50Senior Vice President of Worldwide Sales and MarketingPaul Ueunten55Senior Vice President of Engineering



Michael R. Hsinghas served on our board of directors and has served as our President and Chief Executive Officer since founding Monolithic
Power Systems in August 1997. Before founding our company, Mr. Hsing held senior technical positions at companies such as Supertex, Inc. and Micrel, Inc. Mr. Hsing is an inventor on numerous patents related to the process development of
bipolar mixed-signal semiconductor manufacturing. Mr. Hsing holds a B.S.E.E. from the University of Florida.



Rick Neelyjoined us in September 2005. He currently serves as our Senior Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer. From November
2002 to September 2005, he served as Chief Financial Officer of NuCORE Technology, a fabless semiconductor company. Prior to that, he was the principal of his own consulting practice from May 2001 to November 2002. He also served as Chief Financial
Officer of Alventive Inc. from May 2000 to May 2001. Prior to that he served as Chief Financial Officer and Interim Chief Executive Officer of Beyond.com, Vice President of Finance and Operations at Synopsys, and Vice President and Corporate
Controller of Heartport. Mr. Neely spent 16 years, from 1980 to 1996, with Advanced Micro Devices (AMD) in a variety of senior financial management positions worldwide. Mr. Neely holds a MBA from the University of Chicago and an
undergraduate degree in Economics from Whitman College.



Maurice Sciammascurrently serves as our Senior Vice President of Worldwide Sales and Marketing. Mr. Sciammas joined the Company in July 1999 and served as Vice President of Products and Vice President of Sales (excluding
greater China) until he was appointed to his current position. Before joining the Company, he was Director of IC Products at Supertex from 1990 to 1999. He has also held positions at Micrel, Inc. He holds a B.S.E.E. degree from San Jose State
University.



Deming Xiaohas served as our President
of our Asia Operations since January 2008. Since joining us in May 2001, Mr. Xiao has held several executive positions, including Foundry Manager and Senior Vice President of Operations. Before joining us, from June 2000 to May 2001,
Mr. Xiao was Engineering Account Manager at Chartered Semiconductor Manufacturing, Inc. Prior to that, Mr. Xiao spent 6 years as the Manager of Process Integration Engineering at Fairchild Imaging Sensors. Mr. Xiao holds a B.S. in
Semiconductor Physics from Sichuan University, Chengdu, China and a M.S.E.E. from Wayne State University.



Paul Ueuntenhas served as our Senior Vice President of Design Engineering since October 2007. Mr. Ueunten joined us in May 1998 and held
several senior level positions, including Vice President of Design Engineering. Before joining us, Mr. Ueunten held positions at National Semiconductor, Signetics Corporation and Sperry Flight Systems. Mr. Ueunten holds a MS in Electrical
Engineering from the University of Santa Clara, a BS in Electrical Engineering from the University of Washington and a BS in Engineering-Physics from Pacific Lutheran University. Mr. Ueunten is credited with a number of patents and is a Member
of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.







