Item 1.  Business



General



Based on industry data, Pool Corporation (theCompany, which may be referred to aswe, usorour) is the world’s largest wholesale distributor of swimming pool supplies, equipment and related leisure products and is one of the top three distributors of irrigation and landscape products in the United States.  The Company was incorporated in the State of Delaware in 1993 and has grown from a regional distributor to a multi-national, multi-network distribution company.



Our industry is highly fragmented, and as such, we add considerable value to the industry by purchasing products from a large number of manufacturers and then distributing the products to our customer base on conditions that are more favorable than our customers could obtain on their own.



As ofDecember 31, 2012, we operated312sales centers in North America and Europe through our three distribution networks:



•SCP Distributors LLC (SCP);

•Superior Pool Products LLC (Superior); and

•Horizon Distributors, Inc. (Horizon).



Superior and Horizon are both wholly owned subsidiaries of SCP, which is wholly owned by Pool Corporation.



Our Industry



We believe that the swimming pool industry is relatively young, with room for continued growth from increased penetration of new pools.  Of the approximately80 millionhomes in the United States that have the economic capacity and the yard space to have a swimming pool, approximately12%currently have a pool.  There are also significant growth opportunities in pool remodeling, due to the aging of the installed base of swimming pools, and pool equipment replacement, due to technological advancements and more energy‑efficient products.  The irrigation and landscape industry shares many characteristics with the pool industry and we believe that it will realize long-term growth rates similar to the pool industry.



Favorable demographic and socioeconomic trends have positively impacted our industry and we believe these trends will continue to do so in the long term.  These favorable trends include the following:



•long-term growth in housing units in warmer markets due to the population migration toward the south, which contributes to the growing installed base of pools that homeowners must maintain;

•increased homeowner spending on outdoor living spaces for relaxation and entertainment;

•consumers bundling the purchase of a swimming pool and other products, with new irrigation systems and landscaping often being key components to both pool installations and remodels; and

•consumers using more automation and control products, higher quality materials and other pool features that add to our sales opportunities over time.



Approximately60%of consumer spending in the pool industry is for maintenance and minor repair of existing swimming pools.  Maintaining proper chemical balance and the related upkeep and repair of swimming pool equipment, such as pumps, heaters, filters and safety equipment, creates a non-discretionary demand for pool chemicals, equipment and other related parts and supplies.  We also believe cosmetic considerations such as a pool’s appearance and the overall look of backyard environments create an ongoing demand for other maintenance related goods and certain discretionary products.



We believe that the recurring nature of the maintenance and repair market has historically helped maintain a relatively consistent rate of industry growth.  This characteristic, along with relatively consistent rates of inflationary price increases averaging 1% to 2% that have been passed on by manufacturers and distributors, has helped cushion the negative impact on revenues in periods when unfavorable economic conditions and softness in the housing market have adversely impacted pool construction and major replacement and refurbishment activities.












The following table reflects growth in the domestic installed base of in-ground and above-ground swimming pools over the past 11 years (based on Company estimates and information from 2011 P.K. Data, Inc. reports):





The replacement and refurbishment market includes major swimming pool remodeling and currently accounts for close to 30% of consumer spending in the pool industry.  This activity is based on the aging of the installed base of pools with the timing of expenditures being more sensitive to economic factors that impact consumer spending compared to the maintenance and minor repair market.



New swimming pool construction comprises the bulk of the remaining consumer spending in the pool industry.  The demand for new pools is driven by the perceived benefits of pool ownership including relaxation, entertainment, family activity, exercise and convenience.  The industry competes for new pool sales against other discretionary consumer purchases such as kitchen and bathroom remodeling, boats, motorcycles, recreational vehicles and vacations.  The industry is also affected by other factors including, but not limited to, consumer preferences or attitudes toward pool and landscape products for aesthetic,  environmental, safety or other reasons.



The irrigation and landscape distribution business is split between residential and commercial markets, with the majority of sales related to the residential market.  Irrigation and landscape maintenance activities account for approximately40%of total spending in the irrigation industry, with the remaining60%of spending related to irrigation construction and other discretionary related products.  As such, our irrigation business is more heavily weighted toward new construction activities and the sale of discretionary related products compared to our pool business and is therefore more sensitive to economic factors that impact consumer spending.



Certain trends in the housing market, the availability of consumer credit and general economic conditions (as commonly measured by Gross Domestic Product or GDP) affect our industry, particularly new pool and irrigation system starts as well as the timing and extent of pool refurbishments and equipment replacement.  We believe that over the long term, housing turnover and single family home value appreciation are the best indicators of new pool construction, with higher rates of home turnover and appreciation having a positive impact on new pool starts over time.  We also believe that homeowners’ access to consumer credit is a critical factor enabling the purchase of new swimming pools and irrigation systems.  Similar to other discretionary purchases, replacement and refurbishment activities are more impacted by economic factors such as consumer confidence, GDP and unemployment.



The economic downturn between 2007 and 2009 had a significant impact on our industry, driving an approximate 80% reduction in new pool construction in the United States compared to peak levels in 2005 and also contributing to more than a 30% decline in replacement and refurbishment activities.  While we estimate that new pool construction has increased from a low of roughly45,000new units in2009to approximately60,000new units in2012, it is still down more than 70% compared to peak levels in 2005 and down approximately 60% from what we consider to be normalized levels.



Our base business sales growth in 2011 and 2012 was driven primarily by market share gains, but also reflected continued improvement in consumer discretionary expenditures and higher replacement activities given our estimated industry growth of 3% to 4% each year.  Although general external market factors including consumer confidence, employment, consumer financing and economic growth have improved, we believe the current economic environment remains uncertain, especially in Europe due to the lingering sovereign debt and economic issues.












We believe there is potential for a significant sales recovery due to the build-up of deferred replacement and remodeling activity and our expectation for gradually normalized new pool and irrigation construction levels.  We also expect that market conditions will continue to improve, enabling further recovery of replacement, remodeling and new construction activity to normalized levels over the next 7 to 10 years.  We expect that the industry will realize an annual growth rate of approximately 4% to 7% over this time period before reverting back to 3% to 5% annual growth over the longer term.



Our industry is seasonal and weather is one of the principal external factors that affect our business.  Peak industry activity occurs during the warmest months of the year, typically April through September.  Unseasonable warming or cooling trends can delay or accelerate the start or end of the pool and landscape season, impacting our maintenance and repair sales.  These impacts at the shoulders of the season are generally more pronounced in northern markets.  Weather also impacts our sales of construction and installation products to the extent that above average precipitation, late spring thaws in northern markets and other extreme weather conditions delay, interrupt or cancel current or planned construction and installation activities.



Business Strategy and Growth



Our mission is to provide exceptional value to our customers and suppliers, in order to provide exceptional return to our shareholders while providing exceptional opportunities to our employees.  Our three core strategies are as follows:



•to promote the growth of our industry;

•to promote the growth of our customers’ businesses; and

•to continuously strive to operate more effectively.



We promote the growth of the industry through various advertising and promotional programs intended to raise consumer awareness of the benefits and affordability of pool ownership, the ease of pool maintenance and the many ways in which a pool and the surrounding spaces may be enjoyed beyond swimming.  These programs include media advertising, industry oriented website development such aswww.swimmingpool.com®, public relations campaigns and other online marketing initiatives including social media.  We use these programs as tools to educate consumers and lead prospective pool owners to our customers.



We promote the growth of our customers’ businesses by offering comprehensive support programs that include promotional tools and marketing support to help our customers generate increased sales.  Our uniquely tailored programs include such features as customer lead generation, personalized websites, brochures, direct mail, marketing campaigns and business development training.  As a customer service, we also provide certain retail store customers assistance with all aspects of their business including site selection, store layout and design, business management system implementation, comprehensive product offering selections and efficient ordering and inventory management processes.



Growth initiatives related to our various customer programs include our retail brand licensing program and our rewards program designed for pool service professionals.  Under our brand licensing program, customers make commitments to meet minimum purchase levels, stock a minimum of nine specific product categories and operate within certain guidelines (including weekend hour requirements).  Our rewards program aligns with our replacement parts growth initiative and provides customers with monthly coupons and other special discounts on parts product purchases.  In addition to these programs, we also feature consumer showrooms in over 70 of our sales centers and host an annual retail summit.



In addition to our efforts aimed at industry and customer growth, we strive to operate more effectively by continuously focusing on improvements in our operations such as product sourcing, procurement and logistics initiatives, adoption of enhanced business practices and improved working capital management.  Other key internal growth initiatives include the continued expansion of both our product offerings (as described in the “Customers and Products” section below) and our distribution networks.



We have grown our distribution networks through acquisitions, new sales center openings and the expansion of existing sales centers.  Since the beginning of2008, we completed12acquisitions consisting of33sales centers (net of sales center closings and consolidations within one year of acquisition).  These acquired locations included six sales centers added to our international SCP network ahead of the2012season, including one sales center in Germany, four sales centers in British Columbia, Canada and one sales center in Ontario, Canada.  Given the more stabilized external environment, we have increased our focus on new sales center openings, including satellite locations that enable us to more effectively serve customers in existing markets.  We opened9new sales centers in2012and we expect to open between7and10new sales centers in2013.



We plan to continue to selectively expand our swimming pool and irrigation distribution networks via both acquisitions and new sales center openings.  We plan to make strategic acquisitions to further penetrate existing markets and expand into both new geographic markets and new product categories.  For additional discussion of our recent acquisitions, see Note 2 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.












We believe that our high customer service levels and expanded product offerings have enabled us to gain market share historically, including the period between 2007 and 2009 when our industry contracted, and that these market share gains continued in 2011 and 2012.  Going forward, we expect to realize sales growth higher than the industry average due to further increases in market share and continued expansion of our product offerings.



We estimate that price inflation has averaged 1% to 2% annually in our industry over the past 10 years.  We generally pass industry price increases through the supply chain and make strategic volume inventory purchases ahead of vendor price increases.  In 2012, we estimate that price inflation was consistent with the historical average, while in 2011 price inflation was approximately 2%.  We anticipate price inflation will vary some by product lines, but will approximate the long-term average overall in 2013.



Customers and Products



We serve roughly80,000customers, none of which account for more than 1% of our sales.  We primarily serve five types of customers:



•swimming pool remodelers and builders;

•specialty retailers that sell swimming pool supplies;

•swimming pool repair and service businesses;

•landscape construction and maintenance contractors; and

•government, golf courses and like commercial customers.



The majority of these customers are small, family owned businesses with relatively limited capital resources.  The recent economic environment has had the greatest impact on swimming pool remodelers and builders and landscape construction companies.  We have seen a modest contraction in our customer base in these segments over the last several years.



We conduct our operations through312sales centers in North America and Europe. Our primary markets, with the highest concentration of swimming pools, are California, Texas, Florida and Arizona, representing approximately50%of our net sales in2012.  We use a combination of local and international sales and marketing personnel to promote the growth of our business and develop and strengthen our customers’ businesses.  Our sales and marketing personnel focus on developing customer programs and promotional activities, creating and enhancing sales management tools and providing product and market expertise.  Our local sales personnel work from our sales centers and are charged with understanding and meeting our customers’ specific needs.



We offer our customers more than160,000national brand and Pool Corporation branded products.  We believe that our selection of pool equipment, supplies, chemicals, replacement parts, irrigation and landscape products and other pool construction and recreational products is the most comprehensive in the industry.  The products we sell can be categorized as follows:



•maintenance products such as chemicals, supplies and pool accessories;

•repair and replacement parts for pool equipment, such as cleaners, filters, heaters, pumps and lights;

•packaged pool kits including walls, liners, braces and coping for in-ground and above-ground pools;

•pool equipment and components for new pool construction and the remodeling of existing pools;

•irrigation and landscape products, including irrigation system components and professional lawn care equipment and supplies; and

•other pool construction and recreational products, which consist of a number of product categories and includes:

◦building materials used for pool installations and remodeling, such as concrete, plumbing and electrical components and both functional and decorative pool surface and decking materials; and

◦discretionary recreational and related outdoor lifestyle products that enhance consumers’ use and enjoyment of outdoor living spaces, such as spas, grills and components for outdoor kitchens.



We track and monitor the majority of our sales by product lines and categories to provide support for sales and marketing efforts and for consideration in incentive plan programs.  We currently have over400product lines and over50product categories.  Based on our2012product classifications, sales for our pool and spa chemicals product category as a percentage of total net sales was15%in2012,16%in2011and17%in2010.  While market share gains drove chemical volume growth of4%in 2012 and6%in 2011, chemical sales growth did not keep pace with our overall sales growth due to price deflation of approximately2%in 2011 and lingering price deflation for certain chemical products in 2012.  No other product category accounted for 10% or more of total net sales in any of the last three fiscal years.












We categorize our maintenance, repair and replacement products into the following two groupings:



•maintenance and minor repair (non-discretionary); and

•major refurbishment and replacement (partially discretionary).



In 2012, the sale of maintenance and minor repair products accounted for approximately 60% of our sales and gross profits while approximately 40% of sales and gross profits were derived from the refurbishment, replacement, construction and installation (equipment, materials, plumbing, electrical, etc.) of swimming pools.  This reflected a shift back toward more sales of major refurbishment and replacement products due to the modest recovery of these activities since levels reached a low point in 2009.  Between 2005 and early 2010, sales of maintenance and minor repair products had increased to approximately 70% of our sales and gross profits due to the significant declines in new pool construction.  Prior to this industry downturn, just over 50% of our total sales and gross profits were related to maintenance and minor repair products.



Since our acquisition of National Pool Tile (NPT) in 2008, we have expanded the number of sales center locations that offer NPT tile and composite pool finish products from the original14locations to over70locations.  These locations feature consumer showrooms where swimming pool dealers and homeowners can view and select pool components including tile, decking materials and interior pool finishes in various styles and grades.  Another key product initiative has been the expansion of our replacement parts offerings.  These product initiatives, along with the continued expansion of our Pool Corporation branded products, have contributed to gross margin improvements over time.  Throughout 2012, we experienced product and customer mix changes, particularly related to sales growth in higher value, lower margin products such as variable speed pumps, motorized pool lifts and pool heaters.  We also observed faster sales growth from larger, lower margin customers.  Our strategic plan considers how these recent trends can contribute to operating income growth over the next several years.



Products related to pool construction and remodeling have been an important factor in our historical base business sales growth.  While sales of these products declined between 2007 and 2009 as the majority of these products are discretionary in nature, we realized some sales growth in 2010 followed by double digit sales growth in 2011 and 2012 due to our ongoing expansion of these product offerings and the gradual improvement in new construction, remodeling and economic trends.  We continue to identify new related product categories and we typically introduce new categories each year in select markets.  We then evaluate the performance in these test markets and focus on those product categories that we believe exhibit the best long-term growth potential.  We expect to realize continued sales growth for these types of product offerings by expanding the number of locations that offer these products, increasing the number of products offered at certain locations and continuing a modest broadening of these product offerings on a company-wide basis.



Operating Strategy



We distribute swimming pool supplies, equipment and related leisure products domestically through our SCP and Superior networks and internationally through our SCP network, while we distribute irrigation and landscape products through our Horizon network.  We adopted the strategy of operating two distinct distribution networks within the U.S. swimming pool marketplace primarily for two reasons:



•to offer our customers a choice of distinctive product selections, locations and service personnel; and

•to increase the level of customer service and operational efficiency provided by the sales centers in each network by promoting healthy competition between the two networks.



We evaluate our sales centers based upon their performance relative to predetermined standards that include both financial and operational measures.  Our corporate support groups provide our field operations with various services, such as developing and coordinating customer and vendor related programs, information systems support and expert resources to help them achieve their goals.  We believe our incentive programs and feedback tools, along with the competitive nature of our internal networks, stimulate and enhance employee performance.



Distribution



Our sales centers are located within population centers near customer concentrations, typically in industrial, commercial or mixed‑use zones.  Customers may pick up products at any sales center location, or we may deliver products to their premises or job sites via our trucks or third party carriers.



Our sales centers maintain well-stocked inventories to meet customers’ immediate needs.  We utilize warehouse management technology to optimize receiving, inventory control, picking, packing and shipping functions.












We also operatesixcentralized shipping locations (CSLs) that redistribute products we purchase in bulk quantities to our sales centers or in some cases, directly to customers.  Our CSLs are regional locations that carry a wide range of traditional swimming pool, irrigation and related construction products.



Purchasing and Suppliers



We enjoy good relationships with our suppliers, who generally offer competitive pricing, return policies and promotional allowances.  It is customary in our industry for certain manufacturers to offer seasonal terms to qualifying purchasers such as POOL.  These terms typically allow us to place orders in the fall prior to any seasonal price increases, take delivery of product during the off-season months and pay for these purchases in the spring or early summer.



Our preferred vendor program encourages our distribution networks to stock and sell products from a smaller number of vendors to optimize profitability and shareholder return.  We also work closely with our vendors to develop programs and services to better meet the needs of our customers and to concentrate our inventory investments.  These practices, together with a more comprehensive service offering, have positively impacted our selling margins and our returns on inventory investments.



We regularly evaluate supplier relationships and consider alternate sourcing to assure competitive cost, service and quality standards.  Our largest suppliers include Pentair Water Pool and Spa, Inc., Hayward Pool Products, Inc. and Zodiac Pool Systems, Inc., which accounted for approximately18%,11%and8%, respectively, of the cost of products we sold in2012.



Competition



Based on industry knowledge and available data, management believes we are the largest wholesale distributor of swimming pool and related backyard products and the only truly national wholesale distributor focused on the swimming pool industry in the United States.  We are also one of the top three distributors of irrigation and landscape products in the United States.  We face intense competition from many regional and local distributors in our markets and from one national wholesale distributor of irrigation and landscape products.  We also face competition, both directly and indirectly, from mass-market retailers and large pool supply retailers (both store-based and internet) who buy directly from manufacturers and, to a lesser extent, from other distributors.



Some geographic markets we serve, particularly the five largest and higher pool density markets of California, Florida, Texas, Arizona and New York, have a greater concentration of competition than others.  Barriers to entry in our industry are relatively low.  We believe that the principal competitive factors in swimming pool and landscape supply distribution are:



•the breadth and availability of products offered;

•the quality and level of customer service;

•the breadth and depth of sales and marketing programs;

•consistency and stability of business relationships with customers and suppliers;

•competitive product pricing; and

•access to commercial credit to finance business working capital.



We believe that we generally compete favorably with respect to each of these factors.



Seasonality and Weather



For a discussion regarding seasonality and weather, see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Seasonality and Quarterly Fluctuations,” of this Form 10-K.



Environmental, Health and Safety Regulations



Our business is subject to regulation under local fire codes and international, federal, state and local environmental and health and safety requirements, including regulation by the Environmental Protection Agency, the Consumer Product Safety Commission, the Department of Transportation, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the National Fire Protection Agency and the International Maritime Organization.  Most of these requirements govern the packaging, labeling, handling, transportation, storage and sale of chemicals and fertilizers.  We store certain types of chemicals and/or fertilizers at each of our sales centers and the storage of these items is strictly regulated by local fire codes.  In addition, we sell algaecides and pest control products that are regulated as pesticides under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act and various state pesticide laws.  These laws are primarily related to labeling, annual registration and licensing.












Employees



We employed approximately3,400people atDecember 31, 2012.  Given the seasonal nature of our business, our peak employment period is the summer and depending on expected sales levels, we add200to500employees to our work force to meet seasonal demand.



Intellectual Property



We maintain both domestic and foreign registered trademarks, primarily for our private label products, that are important to our current and future business operations.  We also own rights to numerous internet domain names.



Geographic Areas



Net sales by geographic region were as follows for the past three fiscal years (in thousands):



Year Ended December 31,201220112010United States$1,770,362$1,608,874$1,450,959International183,612184,444162,787$1,953,974$1,793,318$1,613,746



Net property and equipment by geographic region was as follows (in thousands):



December 31,201220112010United States$42,443$37,782$27,337International4,1233,6123,348$46,566$41,394$30,685



Available Information



Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge on our website atwww.poolcorp.comas soon as reasonably practical after we electronically file such reports with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).



Additionally, we have adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that applies to all of our employees, officers and directors, and is available on our website atwww.poolcorp.com.





