Item 1.  Business



General



Based on
industry data, Pool Corporation (theCompany, which may be
referred to asPOOL, we, usorour) is the
world’s largest wholesale distributor of swimming pool supplies, equipment and
related leisure products and one of the top three distributors of landscape and
irrigation products in the United States.  The Company was
incorporated in the State of Delaware in 1993 and has grown from a regional
distributor to a multi-national, multi-network distribution
company.



Our
industry is highly fragmented, and as such, we add considerable value to the
industry by purchasing products from a large number of manufacturers and then
distributing the products and offering a range of services to our customer base
on conditions that are more favorable than these customers could obtain on their
own.



As of
December 31, 2009 we operated 287 sales centers in North America and Europe
through our three distribution networks: SCP Distributors LLC (SCP), Superior
Pool Products LLC (Superior) and Horizon Distributors, Inc.
(Horizon).  Superior and Horizon are both wholly owned subsidiaries of
SCP, which is wholly owned by Pool Corporation.



Our
Industry



We
believe that the swimming pool industry is relatively young, with room for
continued growth from increased penetration of new pools.  Of the
approximately 70 million homes in the United States that have the economic
capacity and the yard space to have a swimming pool, approximately 13% own a
pool.  Higher rates of new home construction from 1996 to 2005 have
added to the market expansion opportunity for pool ownership, particularly in
larger pool markets.



We
believe favorable demographic and socioeconomic trends have and will continue to
positively impact the long-term prospects of our industry.  These
favorable trends include the following:



·long-term
      growth in housing units in warmer markets due to the population migration
      towards the south, which contributes to the growing installed base of
      pools that homeowners must
maintain;

·increased
      homeowner spending on outdoor living spaces for relaxation and
      entertainment; and

·consumers
      bundling the purchase of a swimming pool and other products, with new
      irrigation systems and landscaping often being key components to both pool
      installations and remodels.



The
irrigation and landscape industry has many characteristics in common with the
pool industry, and we believe that it benefits from the same favorable
demographic and socioeconomic trends and will realize long-term growth rates
similar to the pool industry.



Approximately
70% of consumer spending in the pool industry is derived from the maintenance of
existing swimming pools.  Maintaining proper chemical balance and the
related upkeep and repair of swimming pool equipment, such as pumps, heaters,
filters and safety equipment creates a non-discretionary demand for pool
chemicals, equipment and other related parts and supplies.  We also
believe cosmetic considerations such as a pool’s appearance and the overall look
of backyard environments create an ongoing demand for other maintenance related
goods and certain discretionary products.



We believe
that the recurring nature of the maintenance and repair market has helped
maintain a relatively consistent rate of industry growth historically, and has
helped cushion the negative impact on revenues in periods when unfavorable
economic conditions and softness in the housing market adversely impact pool
construction activities such as 2006 through 2009.








The table
below reflects growth in the domestic installed base of in-ground and
above-ground swimming pools over the past 11 years (based on Company estimates
and information from 2007 P.K. Data, Inc. reports):





The
replacement and refurbish market includes major swimming pool repairs and
currently accounts for approximately 20% of consumer spending in the pool
industry.  This activity is more sensitive to economic factors that
impact consumer spending compared to the maintenance and minor repair
market.  New swimming pool construction comprises the bulk of the
remaining consumer spending in the pool industry.The demand for new pools
is driven by the perceived benefits of pool ownership including relaxation,
entertainment, family activity, exercise and convenience.  The
industry competes for new pool sales against other discretionary consumer
purchases such as kitchen and bathroom remodeling, boats, motorcycles,
recreational vehicles and vacations.



The
landscape and irrigation distribution business is split between residential and
commercial markets, with the majority of sales related to the residential
market.  Landscape and irrigation maintenance activities account for
40% of total spending in the irrigation industry, with the remaining 60% of
spending related to irrigation construction and other discretionary related
products.  As such, our irrigation business is more heavily weighted
towards the sale of discretionary related products compared to our pool
business.



General economic
conditions(as commonly measured by Gross Domestic Product or GDP), the
availability of consumer creditand certain trends in the
housing market affect our industry, particularly new pool and irrigation system
starts.Positive GDP trends may have a favorable impact on
industry starts, while negative trends may be unfavorable for industry
starts.  We believe there is a direct correlation between industry
starts and the rate of housing turnover and home appreciation over time, with
higher rates of home turnover and appreciation having a positive impact on
starts over time.  We also believe that homeowners’ access to consumer
credit, particularly as facilitated by mortgage-backed financing markets, is a
critical enabling factor in the purchase of new swimming pools and irrigation
systems.



The
continuing adverse economic trends that began in 2006 and worsened through 2009
have negatively impacted our industry and our performance.  Specific
issues included a slowdown in the domestic housing market, with lower housing
turnover, a sharp drop in new home construction, home value deflation in many
markets and a significant tightening of consumer and commercial
credit.  The downturn in the real estate and credit markets that began
in 2006 was compounded by the overall deterioration in general economic
conditions in late 2008 and throughout 2009.  These trends resulted in
significant decreases in new construction activities, and we estimate that pool
construction has declined approximately 80% since 2005.  Pool
refurbishment and replacement activities were also significantly impacted as
consumers began to defer discretionary purchases as the economy
worsened.  The impact of these trends was more severe in 2007 and 2008
in some of the largest pool markets including California, Florida and Arizona,
with a more recent adverse impact in Texas and other states.



Since
irrigation is more heavily weighted towards new construction activities, this
has resulted in a greater impact on our Horizon business as new home and
commercial construction rates have fallen.  We have consolidated
several facilities and significantly reduced operating costs related to our
Horizon network, and we expect these measures will mitigate the greater rate of
earnings decline for our irrigation business.








We are
encouraged by indications that the downward economic trends of the past several
years are moderating, which is evidenced by the fact that the level of sales
declines in the major pool markets first impacted by the negative external
trends diminished as 2009 progressed.  The landscape and irrigation
markets that we participate in have not yet shown improvement as these markets
tend to lag the trends in the corresponding pool markets by up to a
year.



We
believe there is potential for significant sales recovery over the next several
years, driven by both the aging of the installed base of in-ground pools and
pent-up demand for replacement and retrofit activity that consumers have
deferred due to recent market conditions.  We also anticipate that new
pool and irrigation construction activities will gradually begin to return to
more normalized levels, but weexpect the replacement
and refurbish market will rebound before the new construction market and believe
it may be2011 before there is growth in new construction
activities.  We expect that sales levels should once again benefit
from long-term industry growth dynamics and that over the long-term the industry
will return to an annual growth rate of approximately 2% to 6% when the overall
economy does rebound and the real estate and credit markets revert to
normal.



Our
industry is seasonal and weather is one of the principal external factors that
affect our business.  Peak industry activity occurs during the warmest
months of the year, typically April through September.  Unseasonable
warming or cooling trends can delay or accelerate the start or end of the pool
and landscape season, impacting our maintenance and repair
sales.  These impacts at the shoulders of the season are generally
more pronounced in northern markets.  Weather also impacts our sales
of construction and installation products to the extent that above average
precipitation, late spring thaws in northern markets and other extreme weather
conditions delay, interrupt or cancel current or planned construction and
installation activities.



The
industry is also affected by other factors including, but not limited to,
consumer attitudes toward pool and landscape products for environmental or
safety reasons.



Business
Strategy and Growth



Our
mission is to provide exceptional value to our customers and suppliers, in order
to provide exceptional return to our shareholders while providing exceptional
opportunities to our employees.  Our three core strategies are to
promote the growth of our industry, to promote the growth of our customers’
businesses and to continuously strive to operate more effectively.



We
promote the growth of the industry through various advertising and promotional
programs intended to raise consumer awareness of the benefits and affordability
of pool ownership, the ease of pool maintenance and the many ways in which a
pool and the surrounding spaces may be enjoyed beyond swimming.  These
programs include media advertising, industry-oriented website development such
aswww.swimmingpool.com™
and public relations campaigns.  We use these programs as tools to
educate consumers and lead prospective pool owners to our
customers.



We
promote the growth of our customers’ businesses by offering comprehensive
support programs that include promotional tools and marketing support to help
our customers generate increased sales.  Our uniquely tailored
programs include such features as customer lead generation, personalized
websites, brochures, marketing campaigns and business development
training.  As a customer service, we also provide certain retail store
customers assistance with everything from site selection to store layout and
design to business management system implementation.  These benefits
and other exclusive services are offered through our retail brand licensing
program called The Backyard Place®, which is one of
our key growth initiatives.  In return for these services, customers
make commitments to meet minimum purchase levels, stock a minimum of nine
specific product categories and operate within The Backyard Place®guidelines
(including weekend hour requirements).  We launched The Backyard Place®program in 2006
and we currently have over 120 agreements with retail store
customers.  Our total sales to these customers grew 15% in 2009
compared to 2008.



In
addition to our efforts aimed at industry and customer growth, we strive to
operate more effectively by continuously focusing on improvements in our
operations such as product sourcing, procurement and logistics initiatives,
adoption of enhanced business practices and improved working capital
management.  We have increased our product breadth (as described
in the “Customers and Products” section below) and expanded our sales center
networks through acquisitions, new sales center openings and expansions of
existing sales centers.  Historically, acquisitions have been an
important source of sales growth.








Since
2005, we have opened 18 new sales centers (net of subsequent closings and
consolidations of new sales centers) and successfully completed 9 acquisitions
consisting of 74 sales centers (net of sales center closings and consolidations
within one year of acquisition).  Given the current challenging
external environment, we did not open any new sales centers in 2009 and expect
to open only two new sales centers in 2010.  We plan to continue to
selectively expand our domestic swimming pool distribution networks and to take
advantage of opportunities to further expand our domestic irrigation and
international swimming pool distribution networks via both acquisitions and new
sales center openings.  We plan to make strategic acquisitions to
further penetrate existing markets and expand into both new geographic markets
and new product categories.  For additional discussion of our recent
acquisitions, see Note 2 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,”
included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.



Based
upon industry data, we believe our industry grew at a 2% to 6% annual rate for
the period between 2000 and 2005 but contracted each year between 2006 and
2009.  Historically, our sales growth has exceeded the industry’s
growth rates and allowed us to increase market share.  We believe that
our high service levels and expanded product offerings have also enabled us to
gain market share during the past four years as our industry
contracted.  Going forward, we expect to realize sales growth higher
than the industry average due to increases in market share and further expansion
of our product offerings.



We
estimate that pricing inflation has averaged 1% to 3% annually in our industry
over the past 10 years.  In 2010, we do not expect industry price
increases after experiencing above average inflationary increases in product
costs in 2008 and 2009.  We generally pass industry price increases
through the supply chain and make strategic volume inventory purchases ahead of
vendor price increases.  Based on the volume inventory purchases we
made ahead of vendor price increases in the second half of 2008, we realized a
favorable impact to gross margin in the first half of 2009.  Since
there were no similar late season vendor price increases in 2009, we expect
tough gross margin comparisons to 2009 in the first half of 2010.



Customers
and Products



We serve
roughly 70,000 customers, none of which account for more than 1% of our
sales.  We primarily serve five types of customers:



·swimming
      pool remodelers and builders;

·retail
      swimming pool stores;

·swimming
      pool repair and service businesses;

·landscape
      construction and maintenance contractors;
and

·golf
      courses.



The
majority of these customers are small, family owned businesses with relatively
limited capital resources.  The current economic environment has had
the greatest impact on swimming pool remodelers and builders and landscape
construction companies.  We have seen a modest contraction in our
customer base in these segments over the last three years.



We
conduct our operations through over 280 sales centers in North America and
Europe. Our primary markets, which have the highest concentration of swimming
pools, are California, Florida, Texas and Arizona, representing approximately
51% of our net sales in 2009.  We use a combination of local and
international sales and marketing personnel to promote the growth of our
business and develop and strengthen our customers’ businesses.  Our
sales and marketing personnel focus on developing customer programs and
promotional activities, creating and enhancing sales management tools and
providing product and market expertise.  Our local sales personnel
work from the sales centers and are charged with understanding and meeting our
customers’ specific needs.



We offer
our customers more than 100,000 national brand and Pool Corporation branded
products.  We believe that our selection of pool equipment, supplies,
chemicals, replacement parts, irrigation and landscape products and
complementary products is the most comprehensive in the industry.  The
products we sell can be categorized as follows:



·maintenance
      products such as chemicals, supplies and pool
  accessories;

·repair
      and replacement parts for cleaners, filters, heaters, pumps and
      lights;

·packaged
      pool kits including walls, liners, braces and coping for in-ground and
      above-ground pools;








·pool
      equipment and components for new pool construction and the remodeling of
      existing pools;

·irrigation
      and landscape products, including professional lawn care equipment;
      and

·complementary
      products, which consists of a number of product categories and
      includes:

–­building
      materials used for pool installations and remodeling, such as concrete,
      plumbing and electrical components and pool surface and decking materials;
      and

–­other
      discretionary recreational and related outdoor lifestyle products that
      enhance consumers’ use and enjoyment of outdoor living spaces, such as
      pool toys and games, spas and
grills.



We track and monitor the
majority of our sales by various product lines and product categories, primarily
for consideration in incentive plan programs and to provide support for sales
and marketing efforts.  We currently have over 300 product lines and
over 40 product categories.Based on our 2009 product
classifications, sales for our pool and spa chemicals product category as a
percentage of total net sales was 17% in 2009, 14% in 2008 and 12% in
2007.  We attribute this growth to increases in our market share, a
shift in product mix resulting from the decline in construction related products
and chemical price increases.  No other product category accounted for
10% or more of total net sales in any of the last three fiscal
years.



We
categorize our maintenance, repair and replacement products into the following
two groupings:



·maintenance
      and minor repair (non-discretionary);
and

·major
      repair and refurbishment (partially
  discretionary).



Maintenance
and minor repair products are primarily non-discretionary in nature, meaning
that these items must be purchased by end users to maintain existing swimming
pools and landscaped areas.  In 2009, the sale of maintenance and
minor repair products accounted for approximately 70% of our sales and gross
profits while approximately 30% of sales and gross profits were derived from the
replacement, construction and installation (equipment, materials, plumbing,
electrical, etc.) of pools and landscaping.  This reflects a shift
toward more sales of maintenance and minor repair products due to the
significant declines in new pool construction over the past four
years.  Historically, just over 50% of our total sales and gross
profits were related to maintenance and repair products.



With our
acquisition of National Pool Tile (NPT) in 2008, our focus in 2009 included
expanding the number of sales center locations that offer NPT’s tile and
composite pool finish products.  Another recent example of our product
initiatives is the expansion of our replacement parts offerings.  This
includes the continued expansion of our Pool Corporation branded products, which
has contributed to our improvement of gross margin.

Complementary
product sales have also been an important factor in our historical base business
sales growth, but have declined over the past several years since the majority
of these products are related to construction activities or are discretionary by
nature.  We continue to identify other product categories that could
become part of our complementary product offerings in the future.  We
typically introduce two to three categories each year in certain
markets.  We then evaluate the performance of these test categories
and focus on those which we believe exhibit long-term growth
potential.  We intend to continue to expand our complementary products
initiative by increasing the number of locations which offer complementary
products, increasing the number of complementary products offered at certain
locations and continuing a modest broadening of the product offerings on a
company-wide basis.



Operating
Strategy



We
operate three distribution networks: the SCP network, the
Superior network and the Horizon network.  The SCP network
consists of 168 sales centers, including 12 sales centers in Europe, the
Superior network consists of 62 sales centers and the Horizon network consists
of 57 sales centers.  We distribute swimming pool supplies, equipment
and related leisure products through our SCP and Superior networks, and we
distribute irrigation and landscape products through our Horizon
network.






We
adopted the strategy of operating two distinct distribution networks within the
swimming pool marketplace primarily for two reasons:



1.To
      offer our customers a choice of different distributors, featuring
      distinctive product selections and service personnel;
  and



2.To
      increase the level of customer service and operational efficiency provided
      by the sales centers in each network by promoting healthy competition
      between the two networks.



We
evaluate our sales centers based upon their performance relative to
predetermined standards that include both financial and operational
measures.  Our corporate support groups provide our field operations
with various services including customer and vendor related programs,
information systems support and expert resources to help them achieve their
goals.  We believe our incentive programs and feedback tools, along
with the competitive nature of our internal networks, stimulate and enhance
employee performance.



Distribution



Our sales
centers are located near customer concentrations, typically in industrial,
commercial or mixed-use zones.  Customers may pick up products at any
sales center location, or products may be delivered via our trucks or third
party carriers.



Our sales
centers maintain well-stocked inventories to meet customers’ immediate
needs.  We utilize warehouse management technology to optimize
receiving, inventory control, picking, packing and shipping
functions.



We also
operate 10 centralized shipping locations that redistribute products we purchase
in bulk quantities to our sales centers or directly to customers.



Purchasing
and Suppliers



We enjoy
good relationships with our suppliers, who generally offer competitive pricing,
return policies and promotional allowances.  It is customary in our
industry for manufacturers to seasonally offer extended payment terms to
qualifying purchasers such as POOL. These terms are typically available to us
for pre-season or early season purchases.



We
initiated a preferred vendor program in 1999 which encourages our buyers to
purchase products from a smaller number of vendors.  We work closely
with these vendors to develop programs and services to better meet the needs of
our customers and to concentrate our purchasing activities.  These
practices, together with a more comprehensive service offering, have resulted in
improved margins at the sales center level.



We
regularly evaluate supplier relationships and consider alternate sourcing to
assure competitive cost, service and quality standards.  Our largest
suppliers include Pentair Corporation, Hayward Pool Products, Inc. and Zodiac
Pool Systems, Inc., which accounted for approximately 16%, 10% and 8%,
respectively, of the cost of products we sold in 2009.



Competition



Based on
industry knowledge and available data, management believes we are the largest
wholesale distributor of swimming pool and related backyard products and the
only truly national wholesale distributor focused on the swimming pool industry
in the United States.  We are also one of the top three distributors
of landscape and irrigation products in the United States, and we compete
against one national wholesale distributor of these products.  We face
intense competition from many regional and local distributors in our markets and
to a lesser extent, mass-market retailers and large pool supply retailers with
their own internal distribution networks.



Some
geographic markets we serve, particularly our four largest, higher density
markets in California, Florida, Texas and Arizona, are more competitive than
others.  Barriers to entry in our industry are relatively low. We
compete with other distributors for rights to distribute brand-name
products.  If we lose or are unable to obtain these rights, we might
be materially and adversely affected. We believe that the size of our operations
allows us to compete favorably for such distribution rights.








We
believe that the principal competitive factors in swimming pool and landscape
supply distribution are:



·the
      breadth and availability of products
offered;

·the quality and level of customer
service;

·the breadth and depth of sales and marketing
  programs;

·consistency and stability of business relationships with
      customers;

·competitive product pricing; and

·access to commercial credit to finance business working
      capital.



We
believe that we generally compete favorably with respect to each of these
factors.



Seasonality
and Weather



For a
discussion regarding seasonality and weather, see Item 7, “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -
Seasonality and Quarterly Fluctuations,” of this Form 10-K.



Environmental,
Health and Safety Regulations



Our
business is subject to regulation under local fire codes and international,
federal, state and local environmental and health and safety requirements,
including regulation by the Environmental Protection Agency, the Consumer
Product Safety Commission, the Department of Transportation, the Occupational
Safety and Health Administration, the National Fire Protection Agency and the
International Maritime Organization. Most of these requirements govern the
packaging, labeling, handling, transportation, storage and sale of chemicals and
fertilizers. We store certain types of chemicals and/or fertilizers at each of
our sales centers and the storage of these items is strictly regulated by local
fire codes. In addition, we sell algaecides and pest control products that are
regulated as pesticides under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide
Act and various state pesticide laws. These laws are primarily related to
labeling, annual registration and licensing.



Employees



We
employed approximately 3,200 people at December 31, 2009. Given the seasonal
nature of our business, our peak employment period is the summer and depending
on expected sales levels, we add 200 to 500 employees to our work
force to meet seasonal demand.



Intellectual
Property



We
maintain both domestic and foreign registered trademarks primarily for our
private label products that are important to our current and future business
operations. We also own rights to several Internet domain names.



Geographic
Areas



Net sales
by geographic region were as follows for the past three fiscal years (in
thousands):



Year
      Ended December 31,200920082007United
      States$1,393,513$1,626,869$1,774,771International146,281156,814153,596$1,539,794$1,783,683$1,928,367



Net
property and equipment by geographic region was as follows (in
thousands):



December
      31,200920082007United
      States$27,840$28,931$30,505International3,5924,1173,718$31,432$33,048$34,223








Available
Information



Our
annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on
Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section
13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of
charge on our website at www.poolcorp.com as soon as reasonably practical after
we electronically file such reports with, or furnish them to, the Securities and
Exchange Commission.



Additionally,
we have adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, applicable to all
employees, officers and directors, which is available free of charge on our
website.



