Item 1. Business

Overview

CDW is a leading multi-brand technology solutions provider to business, government, education and healthcare customers in the U.S. and Canada. We provide comprehensive and integrated solutions for our customers’ technology needs through our extensive hardware, software and value-added service offerings. We serve over

250,000

customers through our experienced and dedicated sales force of more than

3,600

coworkers. We offer over

100,000

products from over

1,000

brands and a multitude of advanced technology solutions. Our broad range of technology products includes leading brands such as Hewlett-Packard, Microsoft, Cisco, Lenovo, EMC, IBM, Apple and VMware. Our offerings range from discrete hardware and software products to complex technology solutions such as virtualization, collaboration, security, mobility, data center optimization and cloud computing. Our sales and operating results have been driven by the combination of our large and knowledgeable selling organization, highly skilled technology specialists and engineers, extensive range of product offerings, strong vendor partner relationships, and fulfillment and logistics capabilities. For the year ended December 31, 2011, our net sales, net income and Adjusted EBITDA were

$9,602.4 million

,

$17.1 million

and

$717.3 million

, respectively.  Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure.  See “Selected Financial Data” included elsewhere in this report for the definition of Adjusted EBITDA, the reason for its inclusion and a reconciliation to net income.

We have two reportable segments:

Corporate.Our Corporate segment customers are primarily in the small and medium business category, which we define as customers with up to 1,000 employees at a single location. We also serve larger customers, including FORTUNE 1000 companies, that value our broad offerings, brand selection and flexible delivery model. We have over200,000active accounts, well diversified across numerous industries. Our Corporate segment is divided into a small business customer channel, primarily serving customers with up to 100 employees, and a medium-large business customer channel, primarily serving customers with more than 100 employees. Our Corporate segment sales team is primarily organized by geography and customer size. We believe this enables us to better understand and serve customer needs, optimize sales resource coverage and strengthen relationships with vendor partners to create more sales opportunities. Our Corporate segment generated net sales of$5,334.4 millionfor the year ended December 31, 2011.

Public.Our Public segment is divided into government, education and healthcare customer channels. The government channel serves federal as well as state and local governments. The education channel serves higher education and K-12 customers. The healthcare channel serves customers across the healthcare provider industry. We have built sizable businesses in each of our three Public customer channels as annual net sales for the year ended December 31, 2011 exceeded $1 billion for each customer channel. Our Public segment sales teams are organized by customer channel, and within each customer channel, they are generally organized by geography, except our federal government sales teams, which are organized by agency. We believe this enables our sales teams to address the specific needs of their customer channel while promoting strong customer relationships. Our Public segment generated net sales of$3,757.2 millionfor the year ended December 31, 2011.

Other.We also have two other operating segments, CDW Advanced Services and Canada, which do not meet the reportable segment quantitative thresholds and, accordingly, are combined together as “Other.” The CDW Advanced Services business is comprised of customized engineering services, delivered by CDW professional engineers, as well as managed services, including hosting and data center services. Certain other services, such as custom configuration and third-party services, are included in our Corporate and Public segment net sales and not in "Other." Advanced services provided by CDW professional engineers are recorded in CDW Advanced Services. Our CDW Advanced Services and Canada business segments generated net sales of$510.8 millionfor the year ended December 31, 2011.

For further information on our segments, including financial results, see Note 18 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report.

History

CDW was founded in 1984. In 2003, we purchased selected U.S. assets and the Canadian operations of Micro Warehouse, which extended our growth platform into Canada. In 2006, we acquired Berbee Information Networks Corporation, a provider of technology products, solutions and customized engineering services in advanced technologies primarily across Cisco, IBM and Microsoft portfolios. This acquisition increased our capabilities in customized engineering services and managed services.

On October 12, 2007, CDW Corporation, an Illinois corporation, was acquired through a merger transaction by an









entity controlled by investment funds affiliated with Madison Dearborn Partners, LLC and Providence Equity Partners L.L.C. (the “Acquisition”). CDW Corporation continued as the surviving corporation and same legal entity after the Acquisition, but became a wholly owned subsidiary of VH Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation.

On December 31, 2009, CDW Corporation merged into CDWC LLC, an Illinois limited liability company owned by VH Holdings, Inc., with CDWC LLC as the surviving entity. This change had no impact on our operations or management. On December 31, 2009, CDWC LLC was renamed CDW LLC (“CDW LLC”). On August 17, 2010, VH Holdings, Inc. was renamed CDW Corporation (“Parent”), a Delaware corporation.

Throughout this report, the terms “the Company,” “CDW” and “Successor” refer to Parent and its wholly owned subsidiaries subsequent to the Acquisition, and “Predecessor” refers to CDW Corporation, an Illinois corporation, and its wholly owned subsidiaries prior to the Acquisition.

Parent is owned directly by CDW Holdings LLC, a company controlled by investment funds affiliated with Madison Dearborn Partners, LLC and Providence Equity Partners L.L.C. (the “Equity Sponsors”), certain other co-investors and certain members of CDW management. See “Equity Sponsors” below.

Industry Overview

According to International Data Corporation (“IDC”), the overall U.S. technology market generated approximately$601 billionin sales in 2011, including$216 billionin hardware sales,$158 billionin software sales and$227 billionin services sales. The channels through which these products and services are delivered are highly fragmented and served by a multitude of participants. These participants include original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”), software publishers, wholesale distributors and resellers. Wholesale distributors, such as Ingram Micro Inc., Tech Data Corporation and SYNNEX Corporation, act as intermediaries between OEMs and software publishers, on the one hand, and resellers, on the other hand, providing logistics management and supply-chain services. Resellers, which include direct marketers, value-added resellers, e-tailers and retailers, sell products and/or services directly to the end-user customer, sourcing products sold to their customers directly from OEMs and software publishers or from wholesale distributors. CDW is a technology solutions provider with both direct marketer and value-added reseller capabilities.

Two key customer groups within our addressable market are the small and medium business market and the public sector market. The small and medium business market is highly fragmented and is generally characterized by companies that employ fewer than 1,000 employees. The public sector market is also fragmented and is generally divided into market verticals, each with specialized needs that require an adaptive and flexible sales, services and logistics model to meet customer needs. We believe that many vendors rely heavily on channel partners like CDW to efficiently serve small and medium business and public sector customers.

Our Competitive Strengths

We believe the following strengths have contributed to our success and enabled us to become an important strategic partner for both our customers and our vendor partners:

Significant scale and scope

We are a leading multi-brand technology solutions provider in the U.S. and Canada. Based upon publicly available information, we believe that our net sales are significantly larger than any other multi-brand direct marketer or value-added reseller in the U.S. Our significant scale and scope create competitive advantages through:

•Breadth of solutions for our customers.The breadth and depth of knowledge that our direct selling organization, specialists and engineers have across multiple industries and technologies position us well to anticipate and meet our customers’ needs. Our size allows us to provide our customers with a broad selection of over100,000technology products from over1,000brands and a multitude of advanced technology solutions at competitive prices. We have leveraged our scale to provide a high level of customer service and a breadth of technology options, making it easy for customers to do business with us.

•Broad market access for our vendor partners.We believe we are an attractive route to market for our vendor partners in part because we provide them with access to a cost-effective and highly knowledgeable sales and marketing organization that reaches over250,000customers. Our vendor partners recognize that, in addition to providing broad customer reach, our scale and scope enables us to sell, deliver and implement their products and services to customers with a high level of knowledge and consistency.

•Operational cost efficiencies and productivity.Our large scale provides us with operational cost efficiencies across our









organization, including purchasing, operations, IT, sales, marketing and other support functions. We leverage these advantages through our two modern distribution centers, our efficient business processes and constant focus on productivity improvements, and our proprietary information systems, which has enabled us to provide cost-efficient service to our customers.

Coworker culture

Our steadfast focus on serving customers and investing in coworkers has fostered a strong, “get it done” culture at CDW. Since our founding, we have adhered to a core philosophy known as the Circle of Service, which places the customer at the center of all of our actions. We have consistently and cost effectively invested in our coworkers by providing broad and deep coworker training, supplying resources that contribute to their success and offering them broad career development opportunities. This constant focus on customers and coworkers has created a customer-centric, highly engaged coworker base, which ultimately benefits our customers and fosters customer loyalty.

Large and knowledgeable direct selling organization

We have a large and experienced sales force, consisting of more than3,600coworkers, including almost2,900account managers and field account executives. We believe our success is due, in part, to the strength of our account managers’ dedicated relationships with customers that are developed by calling on existing and new customers, providing advice on products, responding to customer inquiries and developing solutions to our customers’ complex technology needs. The deep industry knowledge of our dedicated sales, marketing and support resources within each of our customer channels allows us to understand and solve the unique challenges and evolving technology needs of our customers. Multiple customer surveys administered by independent parties consistently show that customers view CDW as a leader in customer service compared to other multi-brand resellers and solution providers.

Highly skilled technology specialists and engineers

Our direct selling organization is supported by a team of almost800technology specialists and almost600service delivery engineers with more than3,400industry-recognized certifications who bring deep product and solution knowledge and experience to the technology challenges of our customers. We believe our technology specialists, who work with customers and our direct selling organization to design solutions and provide recommendations in the selection and procurement process, are an important resource and differentiator for us as we seek to expand our offerings of value-added services and solutions.

Large and established customer channels

We have grown our customer channels within the Corporate and Public segments to sizeable businesses. Our government, education, healthcare and small business channels each has net sales that exceed $1 billion. Our scale allows us to create specialized sales resources across multiple customer markets, which enables us to better understand and meet our customers’ evolving IT requirements. Our scale also provides us diversification benefits. For instance, our Public segment, which is comprised of our government, education and healthcare channels, has historically been less correlated to economic cycles, as evidenced by its 5% net sales growth in 2009 while overall technology spending declined in the U.S. market, according to IDC.

Strong, established vendor partner relationships

We believe that our strong vendor partner relationships differentiate us from other multi-brand technology solutions providers. In addition to providing a cost-effective route to market for vendor partners, we believe that many of our competitive strengths enhance our value proposition to our vendor partners. We believe we are an important extension of our vendor partners’ sales and marketing capabilities as we are the largest U.S. reseller for many of our vendor partners, including Hewlett-Packard. We havethreevendor partners with whom we have annual $1 billion-plus relationships, and we have14vendor partners with whom we have relationships exceeding $100 million a year. As such, we are able to provide technology resources and insights to our customers that might otherwise be difficult for them to access independently or through other technology providers. Our direct selling organization, technology specialists and large customer channels allow us to develop intimate knowledge of our customers’ environments and their specific needs. Frequently, vendor partners will select CDW as a partner to develop and grow new customer solutions. We are regularly recognized with top awards from our vendor partners.  In 2011, we were named Microsoft’s Volume Licensing Partner of the Year and received eight Cisco Partner of the Year awards.

Our Business Strategies

Our goal is to continue to strengthen our position as a leading multi-brand national provider of technology products and solutions by growing our revenues and driving profitability. We plan to achieve this objective by capitalizing on our competitive strengths and pursuing the following strategies:









Focus on customer requirements and market segmentation

We have grown our revenues faster than the market, which we attribute in large part to our focus on customer requirements and market segmentation. We believe our customer intimacy enables us to better understand our customers’ needs and to better identify profitable growth opportunities. We intend to maintain this focus with a goal of continuing to outpace our competitors in revenue growth in the markets we serve through increased “share of wallet” from existing customers, sales to new customers and expanded IT services offerings to both new and existing customers. We believe our efforts in these areas will be augmented as we improve our sales coverage and further segment our customer base, further leverage our knowledge of our customers’ environments and continue to help our customers adopt proven technologies that meet their needs and make the most of their IT investments.

Leverage our superior sales and marketing model

We intend to continue to leverage our large, highly productive sales and marketing organization to serve existing customer requirements, effectively target new customer prospects, improve our product and solutions offerings, maximize sales resource coverage, strategically deploy internal sales teams, technology specialists and field sales account executives, and strengthen vendor partner relationships, all with the end goal of creating profitable sales opportunities. Some of the initiatives we have implemented within the last few years, including our realignment of our medium and large Corporate account managers into geographic regions, our addition of selling resources to our healthcare customer channel and our addition of more technology specialists to facilitate sales of newer and more complex technology solutions, have contributed to an increase in our annualized net sales per coworker from $1.364 million for the quarter ended December 31, 2007 to$1.476 millionfor the quarter ended December 31, 2011. We plan to continue to identify and pursue opportunities that further enhance productivity. Recently, we have added sales operations supervisors to handle administrative tasks for our direct sales force coworkers, which we believe will further enhance their productivity, and we have continued to align our compensation programs to drive profitable revenue growth.

Meet our customers’ changing needs through expanded service offerings and solutions

We intend to continue to expand the range of technology solutions we offer to continue to keep pace with the technology marketplace. As customers increasingly demand more elaborate services and solutions in addition to traditional hardware and software products, we believe that expanding the range of technology solutions that we offer will enhance our value proposition to our customers and help us to maximize our revenue and profit growth potential. We have added almost600technology specialists since mid-2004 and almost500services delivery engineers since mid-2006. CDW currently has almost800technology specialists, organized around core solutions and aligned with our selling organization.  CDW is growing its presence in geographic markets across the U.S. with coworkers focused on delivering customized engineering solutions. We plan to continue to invest in resources and training for our technology specialists and services delivery coworkers to provide our customers with the expert advice and experience they need to make the most of their technology expenditures.

Leverage relationships with leading vendor partners

We intend to continue to leverage our long-standing relationships with major vendor partners to support the growth and profitability of our business. We plan to use our vendor partner relationships to ensure that our sales organization remains well-positioned and well-trained to market new and emerging technologies to end users. As one example, we are currently working with several large vendor partners to assist them in the sales of cloud computing solutions to the small and medium business marketplace. We believe our strong vendor partner relationships will also provide collaborative opportunities for our sales organization and vendor field sales representatives to identify and fulfill additional customer requirements, creating increased sales to both new and existing customers. In addition, we plan to leverage our significant scale to maximize the benefits from volume discounts, purchase or sales rebates, vendor incentive programs and marketing development funds.

Hardware, Software and Value-Added Service Offerings

Our broad offering of multi-brand products and services includes over100,000discrete hardware and software products as well as comprehensive solutions. Solutions generally have hardware, software and/or service components to them. For example, a virtualization solution could include assessment and design advice, sales of servers, storage, desktops and virtualization software, a services implementation and ongoing support. While we believe customers increasingly view certain technology purchases as solutions rather than product categories, the following table sets forth our net sales by major category, based upon our internal category definitions, as this presentation is more consistent with how industry sources and competitors generally categorize technology sales. Amounts for the year ended December 31, 2010 have been reclassified for certain changes in individual product classifications to conform to the presentation for the year ended December 31, 2011.









Year Ended December 31, 2011Year Ended December 31, 2010Dollars inMillionsPercentageof Net SalesDollars inMillionsPercentageof Net SalesHardware:Notebook/Mobile Devices$1,340.014.0%$1,142.513.0%NetComm Products1,246.413.01,149.913.1Data Storage/Drives925.69.6838.59.5Other Hardware4,061.942.33,793.043.1Total Hardware$7,573.978.9%$6,923.978.7%Software1,757.118.31,608.518.3Services256.82.7217.02.4Other(1)14.60.151.80.6Total net sales$9,602.4100.0%$8,801.2100.0%

(1)Includes items such as delivery charges to customers and certain commission revenue.

Hardware

Software

CDW helps customers maximize their software investment by supporting them through the complexities of the entire software lifecycle. We offer software solutions from the largest and category-leading software publishers, including Microsoft, Adobe, Symantec, Oracle, VMware and IBM. Our software lifecycle services include assessment and validation, procurement, deployment and contract management. We work closely with our customers to evaluate their software needs, navigate them through various complex licensing options, and procure the best software arrangements for their business. We help customers optimize software license procurement by consolidating vendors and recommending the most appropriate licensing contracts. In addition to deployment and migration services, we assist our customers in realizing the value of their purchases through ongoing contract management to ensure they maximize their contract benefits and renew on a timely basis. For example, our customers may purchase maintenance contracts which allow them to receive new versions, upgrades or updates of software products released during the maintenance period.

Value-added services and solutions

We believe customers are increasingly looking for solutions from their technology providers in order to optimize their technology investments and best achieve their business objectives. CDW offers a full suite of value-added services, which typically are delivered as part of a technology solution, to help our customers meet their specific needs. CDW solutions can range from the expert configuration and delivery of 100 laptops overnight; to the custom configuration and staggered deployment of 25,000 notebooks to over 12 locations nationally; to specialized technical advice and product procurement, including associated warranties, for an enterprise network; to very complex, fully integrated technology solutions such as virtualization, collaboration, security, mobility, data center optimization and cloud computing. We also offer a complementary set of services, including installations, sales of warranties and managed services, such as remote network and data center monitoring.

We offer our value-added services and solutions primarily through a team of technology specialists and engineers with more than3,400industry-recognized certifications, who bring deep product and solution knowledge and capabilities to the









technology challenges of our customers. Our technology specialists work with customers and our direct selling organization to design solutions and provide recommendations in the selection and procurement process. We have almost800highly qualified and certified specialists, supporting numerous solutions and product categories, including unified communication, security, networking, wireless, server/storage, virtualization, mobility, power and cooling, desktop, notebook, point-of-sale, managed print services, digital signage and software. Our team of engineers, project managers, consultants and technicians in geographic markets across the U.S. support design, implementation and long-term solution management. These coworkers are continually developing and implementing customized solutions which are leveraged so that multiple customers can benefit from our implementation innovation and experience.

Customers

We serve over250,000customers in the U.S. and Canada. Excluding sales to the federal government, which are diversified across multiple agencies and departments and collectively accounted for approximately10%of 2011 net sales, we are not reliant on any one customer as our next five largest customers comprised less than2%of net sales in 2011.

Inventory Management/Distribution

We utilize our information technology systems to manage our inventory in a cost-efficient manner, resulting in a rapid-turn inventory model. We generally only stock items that have attained a minimum sales volume.

Our distribution process is highly automated. Once a customer order is received and credit approved, orders are automatically routed to one of our distribution centers for picking and shipping as well as configuration and imaging services. We operate two distribution centers: an approximately 450,000 square foot facility in Vernon Hills, Illinois, and an approximately 513,000 square foot facility in North Las Vegas, Nevada. We ship over35 millionunits annually on an aggregate basis from our two distribution centers. We believe that the location of our distribution centers allows us to efficiently ship products throughout the U.S. and provide timely access to our principal distributors. Our locations enable us to obtain and ship non-stocked items quickly and efficiently. We believe that competitive sources of supply are available in substantially all of the product categories we offer. We continue to improve the productivity of our distribution centers as measured by key performance indicators such as units shipped per hour worked and bin accuracy.

Information Technology Systems

Our proprietary information technology systems are a key element in our ability to be a leading multi-brand technology solutions provider. Our customized information technology and unified communication systems enhance our ability to provide prompt, efficient and expert service to our customers. In addition, these systems enable centralized management of key functions, including purchasing, inventory management, and billing, collection of accounts receivable, sales and distribution. Our systems provide us with thorough, detailed and real-time information regarding key aspects of our business, enabling us to continuously enhance productivity, ship customer orders quickly and efficiently, respond appropriately to industry changes and provide high levels of customer service. Our websites, which provide electronic order processing and many advanced tools, such as order tracking, reporting and asset management, make it easy for customers to transact business with us and ultimately enhance our customer relationships.

Sales and Customer Service

We have almost2,900coworkers in our direct selling organization, consisting of account managers and field account executives. Including almost800additional customer-facing coworkers, such as our technology specialists, our total sales force exceeds3,600. Account managers provide inside sales coverage to customers, including developing customer relationships by calling existing and potential customers, providing advice on products and services and partnering with specialists to develop and sell more complex solutions. Field account executives work within an assigned territory and interact with customers in-person, usually focusing on solutions that require a face-to-face interaction to sell to customers. Together, account managers and field account executives help us combine the benefits of a national technology solutions provider with a local presence.

Our goals are to simplify the complexities of technology across design, selection, procurement, integration and ongoing management and to be viewed as an indispensible extension of our customers’ IT staffs, regardless of their size. We achieve this objective by providing superior service, industry-specific knowledge and technical expertise with experienced sales people. The scale of our business allows us to segment our sales teams into customer channels so that we better understand the unique needs of customers and to provide extensive, targeted technical training to our direct selling organization.

Purchasing, Vendor Partner and Distributor Relationships

We purchase products for resale from vendor partners, which include OEMs and software publishers, and wholesale









distributors. For the year ended December 31, 2011, we purchased approximately52%of the products we sold directly from vendor partners and the remaining amount from wholesale distributors. Purchases from wholesale distributors Ingram Micro, Tech Data and SYNNEX represented approximately11%,10%and9%, respectively, of our total purchases. Sales of products manufactured by Hewlett-Packard comprised approximately24%of our 2011 net sales. We are authorized by OEMs to sell via direct marketing all or selected products offered by the manufacturer. Our authorization with each OEM provides for certain terms and conditions, which may include one or more of the following: product return privileges, price protection policies, purchase discounts and vendor incentive programs, such as purchase or sales rebates and cooperative advertising reimbursements. We also operate as a reseller for major software publishers that allows the end-user customer to acquire packaged software or licensed products and services. Vendor incentive programs are at the discretion of our vendor partners and usually require the achievement of a specified sales volume or growth rate within a specified period of time to qualify for all, or some, of the incentive programs.

Competition

The market for technology products and services is highly competitive. Competition is based on the ability to tailor specific solutions to customer needs, quality and breadth of product and service offerings, knowledge and expertise of sales force, customer service, price, product availability, speed of delivery and credit availability. Our competition includes:

•direct marketers such as Insight Enterprises, PC Connection, PC Mall, Softchoice and GTSI;

•value-added resellers, including larger ones such as Logicalis, Agilysis, Sirius, and many regional and local value-added resellers;

•manufacturers such as Dell, Hewlett-Packard and Apple, who sell directly to customers;

•e-tailers such as Tiger Direct, Buy.com, Amazon and Newegg;

•large service providers and system integrators such as IBM, Accenture, Hewlett-Packard and Dell; and

•retailers such as Best Buy, Office Depot, Office Max, Staples, Wal-Mart, Sam’s Club and Costco.

We expect the competitive landscape in which we compete to continue to change as new technologies are developed. While innovation can help our business as it creates new offerings for us to sell, it can also disrupt our business model and create new and stronger competitors. For a discussion of the risks associated with competition, see “Risk Factors” included elsewhere in this report.

Coworkers

As of December 31, 2011, we employed more than6,700coworkers, none of whom is covered by collective bargaining agreements. We consider our coworker relations to be good.

Intellectual Property

The CDW trademark and certain variations thereon are registered or subject to pending trademark applications. We believe our trademarks have significant value and are important factors in our marketing programs. In addition, we own domain names, including cdw.com and cdwg.com, for our primary trademarks. Finally, we have unregistered copyrights in our website content.

Equity Sponsors

Madison Dearborn, based in Chicago, is one of the most experienced and successful private equity investment firms in the United States. Madison Dearborn has raised over $18 billion of capital since its formation in 1992 and has invested in more than 100 companies. Madison Dearborn-affiliated investment funds invest in businesses across a broad spectrum of industries, including basic industries, consumer, financial services, health care and telecom, media and technology services. Providence Equity Partners L.L.C. is a leading global private equity firm focused on media, communications, information and education investments. Providence Equity Partners L.L.C. has $23 billion of equity under management and has invested in more than 100 companies over its 20-year history. Providence Equity Partners L.L.C. is headquartered in Providence, Rhode Island and has offices in New York, Los Angeles, London, Hong Kong and New Delhi.













