Item 1. Business

Our Company

CDW is a Fortune 500 company and a leading provider of integrated information technology (“IT”) solutions in the U.S. and Canada. We help our customer base of more than 250,000 small, medium and large business, government, education and healthcare customers by delivering critical solutions to their increasingly complex IT needs. Our broad array of offerings range from discrete hardware and software products to integrated IT solutions such as mobility, security, data center optimization, cloud computing, virtualization and collaboration. Our product portfolio includes more than 100,000 products from more than 1,000 brands. We provide these solutions through a large and experienced sales force and service delivery team consisting of more than 4,300 coworkers, including nearly 1,400 highly skilled technology specialists and engineers.



We are a leading U.S. sales channel partner for many original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) and software publishers (collectively, our “vendor partners”), whose products we include in our offerings. We believe we are an important extension of our vendor partners' sales and marketing capabilities, providing them with a cost-effective way to reach customers and maintain a consistent brand experience through our established end-market coverage and extensive customer access. In 2012, we generated over $1 billion of revenue for three of our vendor partners and over $100 million of revenue for an additional 12 of our vendor partners.

We provide value to our customers by simplifying the complexities of technology across design, selection, procurement, integration and management. Our goal is to have our customers, regardless of their size, view us as an indispensable extension of their IT staffs. We seek to achieve this goal by providing our customers with superior service through our large and experienced sales force and service delivery teams. Our multi-brand offering approach, which is not limited to any particular brand or product technology, enables us to identify the products or combination of products that best address each customer's specific organizational IT requirements.

Our customers include private sector businesses that typically employ fewer than 5,000 employees, government agencies and educational and healthcare institutions. We serve our customers through service delivery teams and channel-specific sales teams with extensive technical skills and knowledge of the specific markets they serve. This market segmentation allows us to customize our offerings for our customers, which often do not have the expertise or resources to effectively evaluate and to optimally implement IT solutions. We currently have five dedicated customer channels: small business, medium/large business, government, education and healthcare, each of which generated over $1 billion in net sales in 2012. The scale and diversity of our customer channels provides us with multiple avenues for growth and a balanced customer base to weather economic and technology cycles.

The following table provides information regarding our reportable segments and our customer channels:

Corporate SegmentPublic SegmentCustomer ChannelsMedium/Large BusinessSmall BusinessGovernmentEducationHealthcareOtherTypical Target Customers100 - 5,000 employees10 - 100 employeesVarious agencies within federal, state and local governmentsHigher education and K-12Private and public hospitals, ambulatory service providers and long-term care facilitiesAdvanced services customers across our channelsplus Canadian businesses and agencies2012 Net Sales(in billions)$4.4$1.1$1.4$1.2$1.4$0.6

For further information on our segments, including financial results, see Note 16 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report.

We offer over 1,000 brands, from well-established companies such as APC, Apple, Cisco, EMC, Hewlett-Packard, IBM, Lenovo, Microsoft, NetApp, Symantec and VMware to emerging vendor partners such as Drobo, Fusion-io, Meraki, Nimble Storage, Salesforce.com, Sophos and Splunk. Our coworkers have enabled us to achieve the highest level of certification from major vendor partners such as Cisco, EMC and Microsoft. These certifications reflect the extensive product









and solution knowledge and capabilities that we bring to our customers' IT challenges and provide us with access to favorable pricing, tools and resources, including vendor incentive programs, which we use to provide additional value to our customers. Our vendor partners also regularly recognize us with top awards and select us to develop and grow new customer solutions.

History

CDW was founded in 1984. In 2003, we purchased selected U.S. assets and the Canadian operations of Micro Warehouse, which extended our growth platform into Canada. In 2006, we acquired Berbee Information Networks Corporation, a regional provider of technology products, solutions and customized engineering services in advanced technologies primarily across Cisco, IBM and Microsoft portfolios. This acquisition increased our capabilities in customized engineering services and managed services.

On October 12, 2007, CDW Corporation, an Illinois corporation, was acquired through a merger transaction by an entity controlled by investment funds affiliated with Madison Dearborn Partners, LLC and Providence Equity Partners L.L.C. (the “Acquisition”). CDW Corporation continued as the surviving corporation and same legal entity after the Acquisition, but became a wholly owned subsidiary of VH Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation.

On December 31, 2009, CDW Corporation merged into CDWC LLC, an Illinois limited liability company owned by VH Holdings, Inc., with CDWC LLC as the surviving entity. This change had no impact on our operations or management. On December 31, 2009, CDWC LLC was renamed CDW LLC (“CDW LLC”). On August 17, 2010, VH Holdings, Inc. was renamed CDW Corporation (“Parent”), a Delaware corporation.

Throughout this report, the terms “the Company” and “CDW” refer to Parent and its 100% owned subsidiaries subsequent to the Acquisition.

Parent is owned directly by CDW Holdings LLC, a company controlled by investment funds affiliated with Madison Dearborn Partners, LLC and Providence Equity Partners L.L.C. (the “Equity Sponsors”), certain other co-investors and certain members of CDW management. See “Equity Sponsors” below.

Our Market

We believe our addressable market in the U.S. represents more than $200 billion in annual sales and for the year ended December 31, 2012, our net sales of $10.1 billion represented approximately 5% of that market. New technologies, including cloud, virtualization and mobility, coupled with the resulting increase in demand for data as well as aging infrastructure, are increasingly requiring businesses and institutions to seek integrated solutions to their IT needs. We expect this trend to continue for the foreseeable future, with end-user demand for business efficiency and productivity driving future IT spending growth.

Our Offerings

Our offerings range from discrete hardware and software products and services to complex integrated solutions that include one or more of these elements. We believe our customers increasingly view technology purchases as integrated solutions rather than discrete product and service categories. Our hardware products include notebooks/mobile devices (including tablets), network communications, enterprise and data storage, video monitors, printers, desktop computers and servers. Our software products include application suites, security, virtualization, operating systems, network management and Software as a Service (“SaaS”) offerings. We also provide a full suite of value-added-services, which range from basic installation, warranty and repair services to custom configuration, data center and network implementation services, as well as managed services that include Infrastructure as a Service (“IaaS”) offerings.

We also offer a variety of integrated solutions, such as:

•Mobility: We assist our customers with the selection, procurement and integration of mobile security software, hardware devices such as smartphones, tablets and notebooks, and cellular wireless activation systems. We also provide mobile device management applications with policy and security management capabilities across a variety of mobile operating systems and platforms.

•Security: We assess our customers' security needs and provide them with threat prevention tools in order to protect their networks, servers and applications, such as anti-virus, anti-spam, content filtering, intrusion prevention, firewall and virtual private network services, and network access control. We also design and implement data loss prevention solutions, using data monitoring and encryption across a wide array of devices to ensure the security of customer information, personal employee information and research and development data.









•Data Center Optimization: We help our customers evaluate their data centers for convergence and optimization opportunities. Our data center optimization solutions consist of server virtualization, physical server consolidation, data storage management and energy-efficient power and cooling systems.

•Cloud Computing: Cloud computing is a combination of software and computing delivered on demand as a service. We provide SaaS and IaaS solutions that reside in the public cloud, meaning any person or organization interested in porting applications and resources to an external “public” cloud system can do so. Likewise, we provide similar private cloud-based solutions to our customers that prefer to avoid running their infrastructure on a shared public platform but want to obtain the flexibility, scalability and access offered by cloud computing and collaboration.

•Virtualization: We design and implement server, storage and desktop virtualization solutions. Virtualization enables our customers to efficiently utilize hardware resources by running multiple, independent, virtual operating systems on a single computer and multiple virtual servers simultaneously on a single server. Virtualization also can separate a desktop environment and associated application software from the hardware device that is used to access it, and provides employees with remote desktop access. Our specialists assist customers with the steps of implementing virtualization solutions, including evaluating network environments, deploying shared storage options and licensing platform software.

•Collaboration: We provide our customers with communication tools that allow employees to share knowledge, ideas and information among each other and with clients and partners effectively and quickly. Our collaboration solutions unite communications and applications via the integration of products that facilitate the use of multiple enterprise communication methods including email, instant messaging, presence, social media, voice, video, hardware, software and services. We also host cloud-based collaboration solutions.

While we believe customers increasingly view technology purchases as solutions rather than discrete product and service categories, the following table shows our net sales by major category, based upon our internal category classifications. Prior period amounts have been reclassified for changes in individual product classifications to conform to the presentation for the year ended December 31, 2012.

Year Ended December 31, 2012Year Ended December 31, 2011Year Ended December 31, 2010Dollars inMillionsPercentageof Total Net SalesDollars inMillionsPercentageof Total Net SalesDollars inMillionsPercentageof Total Net SalesNotebooks/Mobile Devices$1,470.814.5%$1,333.813.9%$1,142.613.0%NetComm Products1,350.613.31,241.412.91,142.013.0Enterprise and Data Storage (Including Drives)975.19.6916.99.5844.19.6Other Hardware4,111.140.64,039.242.13,783.543.0Software1,886.618.61,781.618.61,621.818.4Services285.22.8254.62.7214.92.4Other(1)48.80.634.90.352.30.6Total net sales$10,128.2100.0%$9,602.4100.0%$8,801.2100.0%

(1)Includes items such as delivery charges to customers and certain commission revenue.

Our Customers

We provide integrated IT solutions to more than 250,000 small, medium and large business, government, education and healthcare customers throughout the U.S. and Canada. Sales to the U.S. federal government, which are diversified across multiple agencies and departments, collectively accounted for approximately 10% of our 2012 net sales. Excluding these sales to the federal government, we are not reliant on any one customer, as our next five largest customers cumulatively comprised approximately 2% of our net sales in 2012.

Inventory Management

We utilize our IT systems to manage our inventory in a cost-efficient manner, resulting in a rapid-turn inventory model. We generally only stock items that have attained a minimum sales volume.









Our distribution process is highly automated. Once a customer order is received and credit approved, orders are automatically routed to one of our distribution centers for picking and shipping as well as configuration and imaging services. We operate two distribution centers: an approximately 450,000 square foot facility in Vernon Hills, Illinois, and an approximately 513,000 square foot facility in North Las Vegas, Nevada. We ship almost 35 million units annually on an aggregate basis from our two distribution centers. We believe that the location of our distribution centers allows us to efficiently ship products throughout the U.S. and provide timely access to our principal distributors. In addition, in the event of weather-related or other disruptions at one of our distribution centers, we are able to shift order processing and fulfillment from one center to the other quickly and efficiently, enabling us to continue to ship products in a timely manner. We believe that competitive sources of supply are available in substantially all of the product categories we offer. We continue to improve the productivity of our distribution centers as measured by key performance indicators such as units shipped per hour worked and bin accuracy.

We also have drop-shipment arrangements with many of our OEMs and wholesale distributors, which permit us to offer products to our customers without having to take physical delivery at either of our distribution centers.

Information Technology Systems

We maintain customized IT and unified communication systems that enhance our ability to provide prompt, efficient and expert service to our customers. In addition, these systems enable centralized management of key functions, including purchasing, inventory management, billing and collection of accounts receivable, sales and distribution. Our systems provide us with thorough, detailed and real-time information regarding key aspects of our business. This capability helps us to continuously enhance productivity, ship customer orders quickly and efficiently, respond appropriately to industry changes and provide high levels of customer service. We believe that our websites, which provide electronic order processing and advanced tools, such as order tracking, reporting and asset management, make it easy for customers to transact business with us and ultimately strengthen our customer relationships.

Product Procurement

We may sell all or only select products that our vendor partners offer. Each vendor partner agreement provides for specific terms and conditions, which may include one or more of the following: product return privileges, price protection policies, purchase discounts and vendor incentive programs, such as purchase or sales rebates and cooperative advertising reimbursements. We also resell software for major software publishers. Our agreements with software publishers allow the end-user customer to acquire software or licensed products and services. In addition to helping our customers determine the best software solutions for their needs, we help them manage their software agreements, including warranties and renewals.

In addition to purchasing products directly from our vendor partners, we purchase products from wholesale distributors for resale to our customers. Wholesale distributors, such as Arrow, Avnet, Ingram Micro, SYNNEX and Tech Data, provide logistics management and supply-chain services for us and our vendor partners but, unlike CDW, typically do not have relationships with end-users in the U.S. For the year ended December 31, 2012, we purchased 52% of the products we sold directly from our vendor partners and the remaining 48% from wholesale distributors. Purchases from wholesale distributors Ingram Micro, Tech Data and SYNNEX represented 12%, 10% and 9%, respectively, of our total purchases. Sales of products manufactured by Apple, Cisco, EMC, Hewlett-Packard, Lenovo and Microsoft, whether purchased directly from these vendor partners or from a wholesale distributor, represented in the aggregate 56% of our net sales in 2012. Sales of products manufactured by Hewlett-Packard and Cisco represented 21% and 13%, respectively, of our 2012 net sales.

Competition

The market for technology products and services is highly competitive. Competition is based on the ability to tailor specific solutions to customer needs, quality and breadth of product and service offerings, knowledge and expertise of sales force, customer service, price, product availability, speed of delivery and credit availability. Our competition includes:

•National resellers such as Dimension Data, ePlus, Insight Enterprises, PC Connection, PCM, Presidio, Softchoice, World Wide Technology and many regional and local resellers;

•Manufacturers who sell directly to customers, such as Dell, Hewlett-Packard and Apple;

•e-tailers such as Amazon, Newegg, TigerDirect.com and Buy.com;

•Large service providers and system integrators, such as IBM, Accenture, Hewlett-Packard and Dell; and

•Retailers (including their e-commerce activities) such as Staples, Office Depot and Office Max.









We expect the competitive landscape in which we compete to continue changing as new technologies are developed. While innovation can help our business as it creates new offerings for us to sell, it can also disrupt our business model and create new and stronger competitors. For a discussion of the risks associated with competition, see “Risk Factors” included elsewhere in this report.

Marketing

We market the CDW brand on a national basis through a variety of public and community relations and corporate communications efforts, and through brand advertising that includes the use of online, broadcast, print and other media. We also market to current and prospective customers through integrated marketing programs that include print and online media, events and sponsorships. As a result of our relationships with our vendor partners, a significant portion of our advertising and marketing expenses are reimbursed through cooperative advertising reimbursement programs. These programs are at the discretion of our vendor partners and are typically tied to sales or purchasing volumes or other commitments to be met by us within a specified period of time.

Coworkers

As of December 31, 2012, we employed more than 6,800 coworkers, none of whom is covered by collective bargaining agreements. We consider our coworker relations to be good.

Intellectual Property

The CDW trademark and certain variations thereon are registered or subject to pending trademark applications in the U.S., Canada and certain other jurisdictions. We believe our trademarks have significant value and are important factors in our marketing programs. In addition, we own registrations for domain names, including cdw.com and cdwg.com, for certain of our primary trademarks. We also have unregistered copyrights in our website content.

Equity Sponsors

Madison Dearborn Partners, LLC, based in Chicago, is an experienced private equity investment firm that has raised over $18 billion of capital. Since its formation in 1992, it has invested in approximately 125 companies across a broad spectrum of industries, including basic industries, business and government services, consumer, financial services, healthcare and telecom, media and technology services. Madison Dearborn's objective is to invest in companies in partnership with outstanding management teams to achieve significant long-term appreciation in equity value. To achieve this objective, Madison Dearborn seeks to partner with outstanding management teams that have a solid understanding of their businesses as well as track records of building stockholder value.

Providence Equity Partners L.L.C. is a leading global private equity firm focused on media, communications, education and information investments. Providence Equity has $27 billion of equity under management and has invested in more than 130 companies over its 23-year history. Providence Equity is headquartered in Providence, Rhode Island and has offices in New York, London, Hong Kong, Beijing and New Delhi. Providence's objective is to build extraordinary companies that will shape the future of the media, communications, education and information industries. To achieve this objective, Providence Equity creates value by forging lasting partnerships with talented entrepreneurs and executives and providing them with capital, industry expertise and a broad network of relationships that they need to succeed.



