Item 1. Business

Our Company

CDW Corporation (together with its subsidiaries, the “Company”, “CDW” or “we”) is a Fortune 500 company and a leading provider of integrated information technology (“IT”) solutions in North America and the United Kingdom. We help our customer base of over250,000small, medium and large business, government, education and healthcare customers by delivering critical solutions to their increasingly complex IT needs. Our broad array of offerings ranges from discrete hardware and software products to integrated IT solutions such as mobility, security, data center optimization, cloud computing, virtualization and collaboration. We are technology “agnostic,” with a product portfolio including more than100,000products from more than1,000brands. We provide our products and solutions through more than5,000customer-facing coworkers, including field sellers, highly-skilled technology specialists and advanced service delivery engineers.

We are a leading sales channel partner in North America and the United Kingdom for many original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) and software publishers (collectively, our “vendor partners”), whose products we sell or include in the solutions we offer. We believe we are an important extension of our vendor partners’ sales and marketing capabilities, providing them with a cost-effective way to reach customers and deliver a consistent brand experience through our established end-market coverage and extensive customer access.

We provide value to our customers by simplifying the complexities of technology across design, selection, procurement, integration and management. Our goal is to have our customers, regardless of their size, view us as an indispensable extension of their IT staff. We seek to achieve this goal by providing our customers with superior service through our large and experienced sales force and service delivery teams. Our multi-brand offering approach enables us to identify the products or combination of products that best address each customer’s specific organizational IT requirements and to evolve our offerings as new technologies develop.

We believe we offer the following value proposition to our customers and our vendor partners:

Our value proposition to our customersOur value proposition to our vendor partners●Broad selection of products and multi-branded IT solutions●Access to over 250,000 customers throughout North America and the United Kingdom●Value-added services with integration capabilities●Large and established customer channels●Highly-skilled specialists and engineers●Strong distribution and implementation capabilities●Solutions across a very broad IT landscape●Value-added solutions and marketing programs that generate end-user demand

Our customers include private sector businesses, many of which employ fewer than 5,000 employees, government agencies and educational and healthcare institutions. We serve our customers through channel-specific sales teams and service delivery teams with extensive technical skills and knowledge of the specific markets they serve. This market segmentation allows us to customize our offerings and to provide enhanced expertise in designing and implementing IT solutions for our customers. In our U.S. business, which represents over 90% of our revenues, we currently have five dedicated customer channels: medium/large business, small business, government, education and healthcare, each of which generated over$1 billionor more in net sales in2015. The scale and diversity of our customer channels provide us with multiple avenues for growth and a balanced customer base to weather economic and technology cycles.

Information regarding our reportable segments and our customer channels is as follows:

Corporate SegmentPublic SegmentCustomer ChannelsMedium/Large BusinessSmall BusinessGovernmentEducationHealthcareOtherTarget Customers100 - 5,000 employees10 - 100 employeesVarious federal, state and local agenciesHigher education and K-12Hospitals, ambulatory service providers and long-term care facilitiesAdvanced services customers,Canada and United Kingdom2015 Net Sales(in billions)$5.8$1.1$1.7$1.8$1.6$1.0









For further information regarding our segments, including financial results, seeNote 16(Segment Information)to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”

We offer more than1,000brands, from well-established companies such as APC, Apple, Cisco, Dell, EMC, Google, Hewlett Packard Enterprise, HP Inc., IBM, Lenovo, Microsoft, NetApp, Samsung, Symantec and VMware, as well as from emerging vendor partners such as BlueJeans, CafeX, Cradlepoint, CloudPhysics, FireEye, Nimble Storage, Nutanix, Palo Alto Networks, Ruckus, and Veeam. In2015, we generated over $1 billion of revenue from each of four of our vendor partners and over $100 million of revenue from each of 11 other vendor partners. We have received the highest level of certification from major vendor partners such as Cisco, EMC and Microsoft, which reflects the extensive product and solution knowledge and capabilities that we bring to our customers’ IT challenges. These certifications also provide us with access to favorable pricing, tools and resources, including vendor incentive programs, which we use to provide additional value to our customers. Our vendor partners also regularly recognize us with top awards and select us to develop and grow new customer solutions.

History

Founded in 1984, CDW became a public company in 1993. We were a public company from 1993 until October 2007 (see below). In 2003, we purchased selected United States assets and the Canadian operations of Micro Warehouse, which extended our growth platform into Canada. In 2006, we acquired Berbee Information Networks Corporation, a regional provider of technology products, solutions and customized engineering services in advanced technologies primarily across Cisco, IBM and Microsoft portfolios. This acquisition increased our capabilities in customized engineering services and managed services.

On October 12, 2007, CDW Corporation, an Illinois corporation, was acquired through a merger transaction by an entity controlled by investment funds affiliated with Madison Dearborn Partners, LLC (“Madison Dearborn”) and Providence Equity Partners L.L.C. (“Providence Equity”). CDW Corporation continued as the surviving corporation and same legal entity after the acquisition, but became a wholly owned subsidiary of VH Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation.

On December 31, 2009, CDW Corporation merged into CDWC LLC, an Illinois limited liability company owned by VH Holdings, Inc., with CDWC LLC as the surviving entity. This change had no impact on our operations or management. On December 31, 2009, CDWC LLC was renamed CDW LLC (“CDW LLC”). On August 17, 2010, VH Holdings, Inc. was renamed CDW Corporation (“Parent”), a Delaware corporation.

Prior to July 2, 2013, the date of our initial public offering (“IPO”), Parent was owned directly by CDW Holdings LLC ("CDW Holdings"), a company controlled by investment funds affiliated with Madison Dearborn and Providence Equity, certain other co-investors and certain members of CDW management. Before the IPO, Madison Dearborn and Providence Equity owned 46.0% and 40.6% of our common stock, respectively. After the IPO and through subsequent secondary offerings from the fourth quarter of 2013 through 2015, their ownership has significantly decreased. As of December 31, 2015, Madison Dearborn and Providence Equity own4.9%and4.3%of our common stock, respectively.

On July 2, 2013, Parent completed the IPO of its common stock. In connection with the IPO, CDW Holdings distributed all of its shares of Parent’s common stock to its members in June 2013 in accordance with the members’ respective membership interests and was subsequently dissolved in August 2013. SeeNote 10(Stockholders’ Equity)to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for additional discussion of the IPO.

On November 10, 2014, we completed the acquisition of a 35% non-controlling equity interest in Kelway TopCo Limited (“Kelway”), a U.K.-based IT solutions provider, which has global supply chain relationships that enable it to conduct business in more than 80 countries. On August 1, 2015, we completed the acquisition of Kelway by purchasing the remaining 65% of its outstanding common stock which increased our ownership interest from 35% to 100%, and provided us control. The acquisition enhances our ability to provide IT solutions to U.S.-based customers with international locations. We included the financial results of Kelway in our Consolidated Financial Statements from the date of acquisition. For further details regarding the acquisition, seeNote 3(Acquisition)to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”

Our Market

We operate in the United States, United Kingdom and Canadian IT markets, which are large and growing markets. We also have an international presence in both private and public sector IT, and through our global supply chain have the ability to provide products and services in over 80 countries. According to the International Data Corporation (“IDC”), the total U.S., U.K. and Canadian IT market generated approximately$900 billionin sales in2015. We believe our addressable market in the indirect sales channel for the U.S., U.K. and Canadian markets represent more than$282 billionin annual sales. For the year endedDecember 31, 2015, our total Net sales of $12.9 billion represented approximately 5% of that highly diverse and fragmented market. New technologies, including cloud, virtualization and mobility, coupled with the resulting increase in demand for data as









well as aging infrastructure, are increasingly requiring businesses and institutions to seek integrated solutions to their IT needs. We expect this trend to continue for the foreseeable future, with end-user demand for business efficiency and productivity driving future IT spending growth.

Our Offerings

Our offerings range from discrete hardware and software products and services to complex integrated solutions including one or more of these elements. We believe our customers increasingly view technology purchases as integrated solutions rather than discrete product and service categories. We estimate that approximately 48% ofour net sales in2015in the U.S. came from sales of product categories and services typically associated with solutions. Our hardware products include notebooks/mobile devices (including tablets), network communications, enterprise and data storage, video monitors, printers, desktop computers and servers. Our software products include application suites, security, virtualization, operating systems, network management and Software as a Service (“SaaS”) offerings. We also provide a full suite of value-added-services, which range from basic installation, warranty and repair services to custom configuration, data center and network implementation services, as well as managed services that include Infrastructure as a Service (“IaaS”) offerings.

We also offer a variety of integrated solutions, such as:

•Mobility: We assist our customers with the selection, procurement and integration of mobile security software, hardware devices, such as smartphones, tablets and notebooks, and cellular wireless activation systems. We also provide mobile device management applications with policy and security management capabilities across a variety of mobile operating systems and platforms.

•Security: We assess our customers’ security needs and provide them with threat prevention tools in order to protect their networks, servers and applications such as, anti-virus, anti-spam, content filtering, intrusion prevention, firewall and virtual private network services, and network access control. We also design and implement data loss prevention solutions, using data monitoring and encryption across a wide array of devices to ensure the security of customer information, personal employee information and research and development data.

•Data Center Optimization: We help our customers evaluate their data centers for convergence and optimization opportunities. Our data center optimization solutions consist of server virtualization, physical server consolidation, data storage management and energy-efficient power and cooling systems.

•Cloud Computing: We provide our customers with a broad portfolio of cloud-based solutions, which are technology delivered as a service. Our cloud offerings include: IaaS, which delivers compute, networking, storage, and data center capabilities via the cloud; SaaS, which connects users to cloud-based software applications; and Platform as a Service (“PaaS”), which enables development and ongoing maintenance of cloud-based solutions. We provide public cloud solutions which reside off customer premises on a public (shared) infrastructure, and private cloud solutions, which reside on customer premises. We also offer hybrid cloud solutions that deliver the benefits of both public and private solutions. Our migration, integration and managed services offerings help our customers simplify cloud adoption, as well as the ongoing management of cloud solutions across the entire IT lifecycle. Dedicated Cloud Client Executives work with our customers to architect cloud solutions meeting their organizational, technology and financial objectives.

•Virtualization: We design and implement server, storage and desktop virtualization solutions. Virtualization enables our customers to efficiently utilize hardware resources by running multiple, independent, virtual operating systems on a single computer and multiple virtual servers simultaneously on a single server. Virtualization also can separate a desktop environment and associated application software from the hardware device that is used to access it, and provides employees with remote desktop access. Our specialists assist customers with the steps of implementing virtualization solutions, including evaluating network environments, deploying shared storage options and licensing platform software.

•Collaboration: We provide our customers with communication tools allowing employees to share knowledge, ideas and information among each other and with clients and partners effectively and quickly. Our collaboration solutions unite communications and applications via the integration of products that facilitate the use of multiple enterprise communication methods including email, instant messaging, presence, social media, voice, video, hardware, software and services. We also host cloud-based collaboration solutions.









Although we believe customers increasingly view technology purchases as solutions rather than discrete product and service categories, our net sales by major category, based upon our internal category classifications is as follow:

Years Ended December 31,20152014(1)2013(1)Dollars inMillionsPercentageof Total Net SalesDollars inMillionsPercentageof Total Net SalesDollars inMillionsPercentageof Total Net SalesNotebooks/Mobile Devices$2,539.419.6%$2,354.019.5%$1,696.515.8%Netcomm Products1,914.914.71,613.313.41,482.713.8Enterprise and Data Storage (Including Drives)1,065.28.21,024.28.5999.39.3Other Hardware4,756.436.64,551.137.64,184.138.8Software(2)2,163.616.72,064.117.11,982.418.4Services478.03.7371.93.1332.73.1Other(3)71.20.595.90.890.90.8Total net sales$12,988.7100.0%$12,074.5100.0%$10,768.6100.0%

(1)Amounts have been reclassified for changes in individual product classifications to conform to the presentation for the year ended December 31, 2015.

(2)The decline in software as a percentage of total net sales is primarily driven by a higher proportion of revenue recorded on a net basis, including SaaS.

(3)Includes items such as delivery charges to customers and certain commission revenue.

Our Customers

We provide integrated IT solutions to over250,000small, medium and large business, government, education and healthcare customers throughout North America and the United Kingdom. As a result of the acquisition of Kelway, we also have the ability to provide products and services to customers in over 80 countries.

Inventory Management

We utilize our IT systems to manage our inventory in a cost-efficient manner, resulting in a rapid-turn inventory model. We generally only stock items that have attained a minimum sales volume.

Our distribution process is highly automated. Once a customer order is received and credit approved, orders are automatically routed to one of our distribution centers for picking and shipping as well as configuration and imaging services. We operate two distribution centers in North America: a 450,000 square foot facility in Vernon Hills, Illinois, and a 513,000 square foot facility in North Las Vegas, Nevada. We ship over37 millionunits annually on an aggregate basis from these two distribution centers. We believe that the location of these distribution centers allows us to efficiently ship products throughout North America and provide timely access to our principal distributors. In addition, in the event of weather-related or other disruptions at one of our distribution centers, we are able to shift order processing and fulfillment from one center to the other quickly and efficiently, enabling us to continue to ship products in a timely manner. We believe competitive sources of supply are available in substantially all of the product categories we offer. We continue to improve the productivity of our distribution centers as measured by key performance indicators such as units shipped per hour worked and bin accuracy. We also operate one distribution center in the United Kingdom, a 120,000 square foot facility in Rugby. We ship over 2 million units annually from this distribution center to customers in the United Kingdom and inmore than 80 countriesaround the world.

We also have drop-shipment arrangements with many of our OEMs and wholesale distributors, which permit us to offer products to our customers without having to take physical delivery at our distribution centers. These arrangements generally represent approximately45% to 55%of total consolidated net sales, including approximately15% to 20%related to electronic delivery for software licenses.

Information Technology Systems

We maintain customized IT and unified communication systems that enhance our ability to provide prompt, efficient and expert service to our customers. In addition, these systems enable centralized management of key functions, including purchasing, inventory management, billing and collection of accounts receivable, sales and distribution. Our systems provide us with thorough,









detailed and real-time information regarding key aspects of our business. This capability helps us to continuously enhance productivity, ship customer orders quickly and efficiently, respond appropriately to industry changes and provide high levels of customer service. We believe our websites, which provide electronic order processing and advanced tools, such as, order tracking, reporting and asset management, make it easy for customers to transact business with us and ultimately strengthen our customer relationships.

Product Procurement

We may purchase all or only some of the products our vendor partners offer for resale to our customers or for inclusion in the solutions we offer. Each vendor partner agreement provides for specific terms and conditions, which may include one or more of the following: product return privileges, price protection policies, purchase discounts and vendor incentive programs, such as, purchase or sales rebates and cooperative advertising reimbursements. In late 2015 we expanded our partnership with Dell. Through this partnership we have increased our offering of Dell products and services to our customers. We also purchase software from major software publishers for resale to our customers or for inclusion in the solutions we offer. Our agreements with software publishers allow the end-user customer to acquire software or licensed products and services.

In addition to purchasing products directly from our vendor partners, we purchase products from wholesale distributors for resale to our customers or for inclusion in the solutions we offer. These wholesale distributors provide logistics management and supply-chain services for us, as well as for our vendor partners.

For our North American operations, we purchased approximately50%of the products we sold as discrete products or as components of a solution directly from our vendor partners and the remaining 50% from wholesale distributors for the year endedDecember 31, 2015. Purchases from our three largest wholesale distributors, Tech Data, SYNNEX and Ingram Micro, represented9%,9%and8%of our total purchases.

Sales of products manufactured by Apple, Cisco, EMC, HP Inc., Hewlett Packard Enterprise, Lenovo and Microsoft, whether purchased directly from these vendor partners or from a wholesale distributor, represented in the aggregate56%of our consolidated Net sales in2015. Sales of products manufactured by Cisco and the companies formerly known as Hewlett-Packard Company represented16%and18%, of our2015consolidated Net sales, respectively.

Competition

The market for technology products and services is highly competitive. Competition is based on the ability to tailor specific solutions to customer needs, quality and breadth of product and service offerings, knowledge and expertise of sales force, customer service, price, product availability, speed of delivery and credit availability. Our competition includes:

•resellers, such as, Computacenter, Dimension Data, ePlus, Insight Enterprises, PC Connection, PCM, Presidio, SCC, Softchoice, World Wide Technology, and many smaller resellers;

•manufacturers who sell directly to customers, such as, Dell, HP Inc., Hewlett Packard Enterprise and Apple;

•large service providers and system integrators, such as, IBM, Accenture, Hewlett Packard Enterprise and Dell;

•e-tailers, such as, Amazon, Newegg, and TigerDirect.com;

•cloud providers, such as, Amazon Web Services, Microsoft and Box; and

•retailers (including their e-commerce activities) such as Staples and Office Depot.

We expect the competitive landscape in which we compete to continue to change as new technologies are developed. While innovation can help our business as it creates new offerings for us to sell, it can also disrupt our business model and create new and stronger competitors. For a discussion of the risks associated with competition, see Item 1A, “Risk Factors.”

Marketing

We market the CDW brand to U.S., Canadian, and British audiences using a variety of channels that include online, broadcast, print, social and other media. This promotion is supported by integrated communication efforts targeting decision-makers, influencers and the general public using a combination of news releases, case studies, media interviews and speaking opportunities. We also market to current and prospective customers through integrated marketing programs including behaviorally targeted email, print, online media, events and sponsorships, as well as broadcast media.

As a result of our relationships with our vendor partners, a significant portion of our advertising and marketing expenses are reimbursed through cooperative advertising programs. These programs are at the discretion of our vendor partners and are









typically tied to sales or other commitments to be met by us within a specified period of time. We believe that our national scale and analytical techniques that measure the efficacy of our marketing programs differentiate us from our competitors.

Coworkers

As ofDecember 31, 2015, we employed8,465coworkers, none of whom is covered by collective bargaining agreements. We consider our coworker relations to be good.

Intellectual Property

The CDW trademark and certain variations thereon are registered or subject to pending trademark applications in the U.S., Canada and certain other jurisdictions. The Kelway trademark and certain variations thereon are registered or subject to pending trademark applications in the European Union, which includes the United Kingdom, and certain other jurisdictions such as Hong Kong, Singapore, and South Africa. We believe our trademarks have significant value and are important factors in our marketing programs. In addition, we own registrations for domain names, including cdw.com and cdwg.com, kelway.com and variations thereon, for certain of our primary trademarks. We also have unregistered copyrights in our website content.

Available Information

We maintain a website at www.cdw.com. You may access our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 with the SEC free of charge at our website as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. Our website and the information contained on that site, or connected to that site, are not incorporated into and are not a part of this report.



