Item 1. Business

Our Company

CDW is a Fortune 500 company and a leading provider of integrated information technology (“IT”) solutions in the U.S. and Canada. We help our customer base of approximately 250,000 small, medium and large business, government, education and healthcare customers by delivering critical solutions to their increasingly complex IT needs. Our broad array of offerings ranges from discrete hardware and software products to integrated IT solutions such as mobility, security, data center optimization, cloud computing, virtualization and collaboration. We are technology "agnostic," with a product portfolio that includes more than 100,000 products from more than 1,000 brands. We provide our products and solutions through sales force and service delivery teams consisting of more than 4,400 coworkers, including nearly 1,800 field sellers, highly-skilled technology specialists and advanced service delivery engineers.



We are a leading U.S. sales channel partner for many original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) and software publishers (collectively, our “vendor partners”), whose products we sell or include in the solutions we offer. We believe we are an important extension of our vendor partners' sales and marketing capabilities, providing them with a cost-effective way to reach customers and deliver a consistent brand experience through our established end-market coverage and extensive customer access.

We provide value to our customers by simplifying the complexities of technology across design, selection, procurement, integration and management. Our goal is to have our customers, regardless of their size, view us as an indispensable extension of their IT staffs. We seek to achieve this goal by providing our customers with superior service through our large and experienced sales force and service delivery teams. Our multi-brand offering approach enables us to identify the products or combination of products that best address each customer's specific organizational IT requirements and to evolve our offerings as new technologies develop.

We believe we offer the following value proposition to our customers and our vendor partners:

Our value proposition to our customersOur value proposition to our vendor partnersŸBroad selection of products and multi-branded IT solutionsŸValue-added services with integration capabilitiesŸHighly-skilled specialists and engineersŸSolutions across a very broad IT landscapeŸAccess to approximately 250,000 customers throughout the U.S. and CanadaŸLarge and established customer channelsŸStrong distribution and implementation capabilitiesŸValue-added solutions and marketing programs that generate end-user demand

Our customers include private sector businesses that typically employ fewer than 5,000 employees, government agencies and educational and healthcare institutions. We serve our customers through channel-specific sales teams and service delivery teams with extensive technical skills and knowledge of the specific markets they serve. This market segmentation allows us to customize our offerings and to provide enhanced expertise in designing and implementing IT solutions for our customers. We currently have five dedicated customer channels: medium/large business, small business, government, education and healthcare, each of which generated over $1 billion in net sales in 2013. The scale and diversity of our customer channels provide us with multiple avenues for growth and a balanced customer base to weather economic and technology cycles.









The following table provides information regarding our reportable segments and our customer channels:

Corporate SegmentPublic SegmentCustomer ChannelsMedium/Large BusinessSmall BusinessGovernmentEducationHealthcareOtherTarget Customers100 - 5,000 employees10 - 100 employeesVarious federal, state and local agenciesHigher education and K-12Hospitals, ambulatory service providers and long-term care facilitiesAdvanced services customersplus Canada2013 Net Sales(in billions)$4.9$1.1$1.3$1.4$1.5$0.6

For further information on our segments, including financial results, see Note 16 to the accompanying audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report.

We offer more than 1,000 brands, from well-established companies such as APC, Apple, Cisco, EMC, Hewlett-Packard, IBM, Lenovo, Microsoft, NetApp, Symantec and VMware to emerging vendor partners such as Drobo, Fusion-io, Meraki, Nimble Storage, Salesforce.com, Sophos and Splunk. In 2013, we generated over $1 billion of revenue for each of four of our vendor partners and over $100 million of revenue for each of 11 other vendor partners. We have received the highest level of certification from major vendor partners such as Cisco, EMC and Microsoft, which reflects the extensive product and solution knowledge and capabilities that we bring to our customers' IT challenges. These certifications also provide us with access to favorable pricing, tools and resources, including vendor incentive programs, which we use to provide additional value to our customers. Our vendor partners also regularly recognize us with top awards and select us to develop and grow new customer solutions.

History

CDW was founded in 1984. In 2003, we purchased selected U.S. assets and the Canadian operations of Micro Warehouse, which extended our growth platform into Canada. In 2006, we acquired Berbee Information Networks Corporation, a regional provider of technology products, solutions and customized engineering services in advanced technologies primarily across Cisco, IBM and Microsoft portfolios. This acquisition increased our capabilities in customized engineering services and managed services.

On October 12, 2007, CDW Corporation, an Illinois corporation, was acquired through a merger transaction by an entity controlled by investment funds affiliated with Madison Dearborn Partners, LLC and Providence Equity Partners L.L.C. (the “Acquisition”). CDW Corporation continued as the surviving corporation and same legal entity after the Acquisition, but became a wholly owned subsidiary of VH Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation.

On December 31, 2009, CDW Corporation merged into CDWC LLC, an Illinois limited liability company owned by VH Holdings, Inc., with CDWC LLC as the surviving entity. This change had no impact on our operations or management. On December 31, 2009, CDWC LLC was renamed CDW LLC (“CDW LLC”). On August 17, 2010, VH Holdings, Inc. was renamed CDW Corporation (“Parent”), a Delaware corporation.

Throughout this report, the terms “the Company” and “CDW” refer to Parent and its 100% owned subsidiaries subsequent to the Acquisition.

Parent was previously owned directly by CDW Holdings LLC ("CDW Holdings"), a company controlled by investment funds affiliated with Madison Dearborn Partners, LLC and Providence Equity Partners L.L.C. (the "Sponsors"), certain other co-investors and certain members of CDW management. See "Sponsors" below. On July 2, 2013, Parent completed an initial public offering ("IPO") of its common stock. In connection with the IPO, CDW Holdings distributed all of its shares of Parent's common stock to its members in June 2013 in accordance with the members' respective membership interests and was subsequently dissolved in August 2013. See Note 9 to the accompanying audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report for additional discussion of the IPO.

The Sponsors beneficially owned approximately 63.7% of our common stock as of December 31, 2013.









Our Market

We operate in the U.S. and Canadian IT market, which is a large and growing market. According to IDC, the overall U.S. IT market generated approximately $660 billion in sales in 2013. We believe our addressable market in the U.S. in the indirect sales channel represents more than $200 billion in annual sales and for the year ended December 31, 2013, our U.S. net sales of $10.3 billion represented approximately 5% of that highly diverse and fragmented market. According to IDC, the overall Canadian IT market generated more than $50 billion in sales in 2013. We believe our addressable market in Canada in the indirect sales channel represents more than $10 billion in annual sales and for the year ended December 31, 2013, our net sales of $475 million in Canada represented approximately 4% of that market. We believe we have the largest market share in our addressable market, with our 2013 net sales exceeding the cumulative North American net sales of our four largest publicly traded sales channel competitors, based upon publicly available information for those companies. New technologies, including cloud, virtualization and mobility, coupled with the resulting increase in demand for data as well as aging infrastructure, are increasingly requiring businesses and institutions to seek integrated solutions to their IT needs. We expect this trend to continue for the foreseeable future, with end-user demand for business efficiency and productivity driving future IT spending growth.

Our Offerings

Our offerings range from discrete hardware and software products and services to complex integrated solutions that include one or more of these elements. We believe our customers increasingly view technology purchases as integrated solutions rather than discrete product and service categories and we estimate that approximately 51% of our net sales in 2013 came from sales of product categories and services typically associated with solutions. Our hardware products include notebooks/mobile devices (including tablets), network communications, enterprise and data storage, video monitors, printers, desktop computers and servers. Our software products include application suites, security, virtualization, operating systems, network management and Software as a Service (“SaaS”) offerings. We also provide a full suite of value-added-services, which range from basic installation, warranty and repair services to custom configuration, data center and network implementation services, as well as managed services that include Infrastructure as a Service (“IaaS”) offerings.

We also offer a variety of integrated solutions, such as:

•Mobility: We assist our customers with the selection, procurement and integration of mobile security software, hardware devices such as smartphones, tablets and notebooks, and cellular wireless activation systems. We also provide mobile device management applications with policy and security management capabilities across a variety of mobile operating systems and platforms.

•Security: We assess our customers' security needs and provide them with threat prevention tools in order to protect their networks, servers and applications, such as anti-virus, anti-spam, content filtering, intrusion prevention, firewall and virtual private network services, and network access control. We also design and implement data loss prevention solutions, using data monitoring and encryption across a wide array of devices to ensure the security of customer information, personal employee information and research and development data.

•Data Center Optimization: We help our customers evaluate their data centers for convergence and optimization opportunities. Our data center optimization solutions consist of server virtualization, physical server consolidation, data storage management and energy-efficient power and cooling systems.

•Cloud Computing: Cloud computing is a combination of software and computing delivered on demand as a service. We provide SaaS and IaaS solutions that reside in the public cloud, meaning any person or organization interested in porting applications and resources to an external “public” cloud system can do so. Likewise, we provide similar private cloud-based solutions to our customers that prefer to avoid running their infrastructure on a shared public platform but want to obtain the flexibility, scalability and access offered by cloud computing and collaboration.

•Virtualization: We design and implement server, storage and desktop virtualization solutions. Virtualization enables our customers to efficiently utilize hardware resources by running multiple, independent, virtual operating systems on a single computer and multiple virtual servers simultaneously on a single server. Virtualization also can separate a desktop environment and associated application software from the hardware device that is used to access it, and provides employees with remote desktop access. Our specialists assist customers with the steps of implementing virtualization solutions, including evaluating network environments, deploying shared storage options and licensing platform software.

•Collaboration: We provide our customers with communication tools that allow employees to share knowledge, ideas and information among each other and with clients and partners effectively and quickly. Our collaboration solutions unite communications and applications via the integration of products that facilitate the use of









multiple enterprise communication methods including email, instant messaging, presence, social media, voice, video, hardware, software and services. We also host cloud-based collaboration solutions.

While we believe customers increasingly view technology purchases as solutions rather than discrete product and service categories, the following table shows our net sales by major category, based upon our internal category classifications.

Year Ended December 31, 2013Year Ended December 31, 2012(1)Year Ended December 31, 2011(1)Dollars inMillionsPercentageof Total Net SalesDollars inMillionsPercentageof Total Net SalesDollars inMillionsPercentageof Total Net SalesNotebooks/Mobile Devices$1,706.015.8%$1,470.114.5%$1,336.913.9%NetComm Products1,489.113.81,351.113.31,237.712.9Enterprise and Data Storage (Including Drives)998.19.3979.49.7929.99.7Other Hardware4,173.338.84,068.840.23,988.341.5Software1,994.718.51,849.418.31,767.218.4Services327.13.0284.62.8254.32.6Other(2)80.30.8124.81.288.11.0Total net sales$10,768.6100.0%$10,128.2100.0%$9,602.4100.0%

(1)Amounts have been reclassified for changes in individual product classifications to conform to the presentation for the year ended December 31, 2013.

(2)Includes items such as delivery charges to customers and certain commission revenue.

Our Customers

We provide integrated IT solutions to approximately 250,000 small, medium and large business, government, education and healthcare customers throughout the U.S. and Canada. Sales to the U.S. federal government, which are diversified across multiple agencies and departments, collectively accounted for approximately7%,10%and10%of total net sales in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. However, there are several independent purchasing decision-makers across these agencies and departments. Excluding these sales to the federal government, we are not reliant on any one customer, as our next five largest customers cumulatively comprised approximately 3% of our net sales in 2013.

Inventory Management

We utilize our IT systems to manage our inventory in a cost-efficient manner, resulting in a rapid-turn inventory model. We generally only stock items that have attained a minimum sales volume.

Our distribution process is highly automated. Once a customer order is received and credit approved, orders are automatically routed to one of our distribution centers for picking and shipping as well as configuration and imaging services. We operate two distribution centers: an approximately 450,000 square foot facility in Vernon Hills, Illinois, and an approximately 513,000 square foot facility in North Las Vegas, Nevada. We ship almost 35 million units annually on an aggregate basis from our two distribution centers. We believe that the location of our distribution centers allows us to efficiently ship products throughout the U.S. and provide timely access to our principal distributors. In addition, in the event of weather-related or other disruptions at one of our distribution centers, we are able to shift order processing and fulfillment from one center to the other quickly and efficiently, enabling us to continue to ship products in a timely manner. We believe that competitive sources of supply are available in substantially all of the product categories we offer. We continue to improve the productivity of our distribution centers as measured by key performance indicators such as units shipped per hour worked and bin accuracy.

We also have drop-shipment arrangements with many of our OEMs and wholesale distributors, which permit us to offer products to our customers without having to take physical delivery at either of our distribution centers. These arrangements generally represent approximately 40% to 50% of total net sales, including approximately 10% to 15% related to electronic delivery for software licenses.

Information Technology Systems

We maintain customized IT and unified communication systems that enhance our ability to provide prompt, efficient and expert service to our customers. In addition, these systems enable centralized management of key functions, including









purchasing, inventory management, billing and collection of accounts receivable, sales and distribution. Our systems provide us with thorough, detailed and real-time information regarding key aspects of our business. This capability helps us to continuously enhance productivity, ship customer orders quickly and efficiently, respond appropriately to industry changes and provide high levels of customer service. We believe that our websites, which provide electronic order processing and advanced tools, such as order tracking, reporting and asset management, make it easy for customers to transact business with us and ultimately strengthen our customer relationships.

Product Procurement

We may purchase all or only some of the products that our vendor partners offer for resale to our customers or for inclusion in the solutions we offer. Each vendor partner agreement provides for specific terms and conditions, which may include one or more of the following: product return privileges, price protection policies, purchase discounts and vendor incentive programs, such as purchase or sales rebates and cooperative advertising reimbursements. We also purchase software from major software publishers for resale to our customers or for inclusion in the solutions we offer. Our agreements with software publishers allow the end-user customer to acquire software or licensed products and services.

In addition to purchasing products directly from our vendor partners, we purchase products from wholesale distributors for resale to our customers or for inclusion in the solutions we offer. These wholesale distributors provide logistics management and supply-chain services for us, as well as for our vendor partners. For the year ended December 31, 2013, we purchased 54% of the products we sold as discrete products or as components of a solution directly from our vendor partners and the remaining 46% from wholesale distributors. Purchases from wholesale distributors Tech Data, SYNNEX and Ingram Micro represented 11%, 9% and 9%, respectively, of our total purchases. Sales of products manufactured by Apple, Cisco, EMC, Hewlett-Packard, Lenovo and Microsoft, whether purchased directly from these vendor partners or from a wholesale distributor, represented in the aggregate 56% of our net sales in 2013. Sales of products manufactured by Hewlett-Packard and Cisco represented 20% and 14%, respectively, of our 2013 net sales.

Competition

The market for technology products and services is highly competitive. Competition is based on the ability to tailor specific solutions to customer needs, quality and breadth of product and service offerings, knowledge and expertise of sales force, customer service, price, product availability, speed of delivery and credit availability. Our competition includes:

•resellers such as Dimension Data, ePlus, Insight Enterprises, PC Connection, PCM, Presidio, Softchoice, World Wide Technology and many smaller resellers;

•manufacturers who sell directly to customers, such as Dell, Hewlett-Packard and Apple;

•large service providers and system integrators, such as IBM, Accenture, Hewlett-Packard and Dell;

•e-tailers such as Amazon, Newegg, and TigerDirect.com;

•cloud providers such as AT&T, Amazon Web Services and Box; and

•retailers (including their e-commerce activities) such as Staples and Office Depot.

We expect the competitive landscape in which we compete to continue to change as new technologies are developed. While innovation can help our business as it creates new offerings for us to sell, it can also disrupt our business model and create new and stronger competitors. For a discussion of the risks associated with competition, see “Risk Factors” included elsewhere in this report.









Marketing

We market the CDW brand to both national and local audiences using a variety of channels that include online, broadcast, print, social and other media. This promotion is supported by integrated communication efforts that target decision-makers, influencers and the general public using a combination of news releases, case studies, media interviews and speaking opportunities. We also market to current and prospective customers through integrated marketing programs that include behaviorally targeted email, print, online media, events and sponsorships, as well as broadcast media.

As a result of our relationships with our vendor partners, a significant portion of our advertising and marketing expenses are reimbursed through cooperative advertising reimbursement programs. These programs are at the discretion of our vendor partners and are typically tied to sales or purchasing volumes or other commitments to be met by us within a specified period of time. We believe that our national scale and analytical techniques that measure the efficacy of our marketing programs differentiate us from our competitors.

Coworkers

As of December 31, 2013, we employed nearly 7,000 coworkers, none of whom is covered by collective bargaining agreements. We consider our coworker relations to be good.

Intellectual Property

The CDW trademark and certain variations thereon are registered or subject to pending trademark applications in the U.S., Canada and certain other jurisdictions. We believe our trademarks have significant value and are important factors in our marketing programs. In addition, we own registrations for domain names, including cdw.com and cdwg.com, for certain of our primary trademarks. We also have unregistered copyrights in our website content.

Sponsors

Madison Dearborn Partners, LLC is a leading private equity investment firm based in Chicago, Illinois that has raised over $18 billion of equity capital. Since its formation in 1992, it has invested in approximately 125 companies across a broad spectrum of industries, including basic industries, business and government services, consumer, financial and transaction services, healthcare and telecom, media and technology services. Madison Dearborn's objective is to invest in companies in partnership with outstanding management teams to achieve significant long-term appreciation in equity value.

Providence Equity Partners L.L.C. ("Providence") is a leading global private equity firm focused on media, communications, education and information investments. Providence manages funds with $39 billion of commitments and has invested in more than 130 companies over its 25-year history. Providence is headquartered in Providence, Rhode Island and has offices in New York, London, Hong Kong, Beijing and New Delhi. Providence's objective is to build extraordinary companies that will shape the future of the media, communications, education and information industries.



