ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS

Our business faces significant risks, including credit, market and liquidity, operational, legal and regulatory and strategic and reputational risks. The factors described below are not intended to serve as a comprehensive listing of the risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we have not identified as material, or of which we currently are not aware, may also impair our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following factors occurs, our business, financial condition and/or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.

Credit Risks

Because of the credit profile of our loan portfolio, our levels of nonperforming assets and charge-offs can be volatile. We may need to make material provisions for credit losses in any period, which could reduce net income, increase net losses or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition in that period.

Our loan portfolio has a credit profile different from that of most other banking companies. The credit profiles of our clients vary across our loan portfolio, based on the nature of our lending to different market segments.

Early-stage and mid-stage companies.

Larger loans; syndicated loans.In addition, a significant portion of our loan portfolio is comprised of larger loans, which could increase the impact on us of any single borrower default. As of December 31, 2019, gross loans equal to or greater than $20 million to any single client (individually or in the aggregate) totaled $15.5 billion, or 53.4 percent of our portfolio. These larger loans have represented an increasing portion of our total loan portfolio over time. They include capital call lines of credit to our private equity and venture capital clients, as well as other loans made to our later-stage and larger corporate clients, and may be made to companies with greater levels of debt relative to their equity, balance sheet liquidity or cash flow. Additionally, we have continued our efforts to grow our loan portfolio by agenting or arranging larger syndicated credit facilities and participating in larger syndicates agented by other financial institutions as well as making sponsor-led buyout loans, which are leveraged buyout or recapitalization financings typically sponsored by our private equity clients. In those arrangements where we do not act as the lead syndicate agent, our control or decision-making ability over the credit facility is typically limited to our participation interest.

Loans dependent on third parties.Further, the repayment of financing arrangements we enter into with our clients may be dependent on the financial condition or ability of third parties to meet their payment obligations to our clients. For example, we enter into formula-based financing arrangements that are secured by our clients’ accounts receivable from third parties with whom they do business. We also make loans secured by letters of credit issued by third party banks and enter into letters of credit discounting arrangements, the repayment of which may be dependent on reimbursement by third party banks. We also extend recurring revenue-based lines of credit, where repayment may be dependent on borrowers’ revenues from third parties. Further, in our loan portfolio of private equity and venture capital firm clients, many of our clients have lines of credit, the repayment of which is dependent on the payment of capital calls or management fees by the underlying limited partner investors in the funds managed by these firms. These capital call lines of credit are a significant portion of our loan portfolio. (Capital call









lines of credit represent more than half of our loan portfolio as of the end of 2019, and may in future periods increase). These third parties may not be able to meet their financial obligations to our clients or to us, which, ultimately, could have an adverse impact on us.

Technology, life science and healthcare industries.In addition, because of the intense competition and rapid technological change that characterize the technology, life science and healthcare industry sectors in which most of our borrowers reside, as well as periodic volatility in the market prices for securities of companies in these industries, a borrower’s financial position can deteriorate rapidly. Collateral for many of our loans often includes intellectual property and other intangible assets, which are difficult to value and may not be readily salable in the case of default. As a result, even if a loan is secured, we may not be able to fully recover the amounts owed to us, if at all.

Wineries and vineyards.In addition, we lend to premium wineries and vineyards through SVB Wine. Repayment of loans made to these clients may be dependent on overall wine demand and sales, or other sources of financing or income which may be adversely affected by a challenging economic environment, as well as overall grape supply and income from tourism which may be adversely affected by poor weather, heavy rains, flooding, droughts, fires, wildfires, earthquakes or other natural or catastrophic conditions.

Loans to individuals.We also lend to individual investors, executives, entrepreneurs or other influencers in the innovation economy, primarily through SVB Private Bank, a division of the Bank. These individual clients may face difficulties meeting their financial commitments, especially during a challenging economic environment, and may be unable to repay their loans. In certain instances, we may also relax loan covenants and conditions or extend loan terms to individual borrowers who are experiencing financial difficulties. While such determinations are based on an assessment of various factors, including access to additional capital in the near term, there can be no assurance that such continued support will result in any individual borrower meeting his or her financial commitments.

Based on the credit profile of our overall loan portfolio, our level of nonperforming loans, loan charge-offs and allowance for credit losses can be volatile and can vary materially from period to period. Increases in our level of nonperforming loans or loan charge-offs may require us to increase our provision for credit losses in any period, which could reduce our net income or cause net losses in that period. Additionally, such increases in our level of nonperforming loans or loan charge-offs may also have an adverse effect on our capital ratios, credit ratings and market perceptions of us. See “Loans” under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Consolidated Financial Condition” under Part II, Item 7 of this report.

Our allowance for credit losses is determined based upon both objective and subjective factors, and may not be adequate to absorb credit losses.

As a lender, we face the risk that our borrower clients will fail to repay their loans when due. If borrower defaults cause large aggregate losses, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We reserve for such losses by establishing an allowance for credit losses, the increase of which results in a charge to our earnings as a provision for credit losses. Although we have established an evaluation process designed to determine the adequacy of our allowance for credit losses that uses historical and other objective information, the classification of loans and the forecasts and establishment of credit losses are also dependent upon the subjective experience and judgment of our management. Actual losses are difficult to forecast, especially if such losses stem from factors beyond our historical experience or are otherwise inconsistent with our credit quality assessments. There can be no assurance that our allowance for credit losses will be sufficient to absorb future credit losses or prevent a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

ASU 2016-13, Financial Instruments-Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments ("ASU 2016-13"or"CECL"), became effective January 1, 2020 and amended the incurred loss impairment methodology with a methodology that reflects expected credit losses and requires consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to inform credit loss estimates. The standard removes the existing “probable” threshold in GAAP for recognizing credit losses and instead requires companies to reflect their estimate of credit losses over the life of the financial assets. We currently estimate the day 1 combined impact of adopting CECL on our allowance for loan losses and allowance for unfunded credit commitments to be an increase of approximately $50 million (on a pre-tax basis) or approximately 13% of the total combined allowance compared to our reported amount at December 31, 2019.Our ability to accurately forecast estimated credit losses will evolve based on how the new model and related inputs correspond to actual loss rates, and this process may take longer than expected.

Banking regulators, as part of their supervisory function, periodically review our methodology, models and the underlying assumptions, estimates and assessments we make in determining the adequacy of our allowance for credit losses. These









regulators may conclude that changes are necessary, which could impact our overall credit portfolio. Such changes could result in, among other things, modifications to our methodology or models, reclassification or downgrades of our loans, increases in our allowance for credit losses or other credit costs, imposition of new or more stringent concentration limits, restrictions in our lending activities and/or recognition of further losses.

The borrowing needs of our clients may be unpredictable, especially during a challenging economic environment. We may not be able to meet our unfunded credit commitments, or adequately reserve for losses associated with our unfunded credit commitments, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or reputation.

Further, although we have established a reserve for losses associated with our unfunded credit commitments, the level of the reserve is determined by a methodology that is similar to that used to establish our allowance for credit losses in our funded loan portfolio and that has also been amended by CECL. The reserve is susceptible to significant changes and is primarily based on credit commitments less the amounts that have been funded, the amount of the unfunded portion that we expect to be utilized in the future, credit quality of the loan credit commitments, and management’s estimates and judgment. There can be no assurance that our allowance for unfunded credit commitments will be adequate to provide for actual losses associated with our unfunded credit commitments. An increase in the allowance for unfunded credit commitments in any period may result in a charge to our earnings, which could reduce our net income or increase net losses in that period.

CECL became effective January 1, 2020 and amended the incurred loss impairment methodology with a methodology that reflects expected credit losses and requires consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to inform credit loss estimates. The standard removes the existing “probable” threshold in GAAP for recognizing credit losses and instead requires companies to reflect their estimate of credit losses over the life of the financial assets. We currently estimate the day 1 combined impact of adopting CECL on our allowance for loan losses and allowance for unfunded credit commitments to be an increase of approximately $50 million (on a pre-tax basis) or approximately 13% of the total combined allowance compared to our reported amount at December 31, 2019.Our ability to accurately forecast estimated credit losses will evolve based on how the new model and related inputs correspond to actual loss rates, and this process may take longer than expected.

Market and Liquidity Risks

Our current level of interest rate spread may decline in the future. Any material reduction in our interest rate spread could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.









a change in the mix of non-interest and interest-bearing accounts, and the level of off-balance sheet market-based investment preferred by our clients, which may also impact our interest rate spread.

Changes in the method of determining LIBOR or other reference rates, or uncertainty related to such potential changes, may adversely affect the value of reference rate-linked debt securities that we hold or issue, which could further impact our interest rate spread. In 2017, the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority announced that it would no longer persuade or compel submission of bank rates used for calculation of LIBOR after 2021. This announcement indicates that the continuation of LIBOR on the current basis cannot and will not be guaranteed after 2021. Consequently, at this time, it is not possible to predict whether and to what extent banks will continue to provide submissions for the calculation of LIBOR. Similarly, it is not possible to predict what rate or rates may become accepted alternatives to LIBOR, or what the effect of any such changes in views or alternatives may be on the markets for LIBOR-linked financial instruments.

Regulators, industry groups and certain committees (for example, the Alternative Reference Rates Committee) have published recommended fallback language for LIBOR-linked financial instruments, identified recommended alternatives for certain LIBOR rates (e.g., the Secured Overnight Financing Rate as the recommended alternative to U.S. Dollar LIBOR), and proposed implementations of the recommended alternatives in floating rate instruments. At this time, it is not possible to predict whether these recommendations and proposals will be broadly accepted, whether they will continue to evolve, and what the effect of their implementation may be on the markets for floating-rate financial instruments.

Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition.

Our equity warrant assets, venture capital and private equity fund investments and direct equity investment portfolio gains depend upon the performance of our portfolio investments and the general condition of the public and private equity and mergers and acquisitions markets, which are uncertain and may vary materially by period.









variability of these financial instruments and the markets in which they are bought and sold, their fair market value might increase or decrease materially from period to period, and the net proceeds ultimately realized upon disposition might be materially different than the then-current recorded fair market value.

In addition, depending on the fair value of these warrants and direct equity investments, a meaningful portion of the aggregate fair value of our total warrant and direct equity investment portfolios may, from time to time, be concentrated in a limited number of warrants and direct equity investments. Valuation changes in one or more of these warrants or direct equity investments may have a material impact on the valuation of our total investment portfolio. Moreover, because valuations of private companies are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value for private companies may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these securities existed. Therefore, fair value determinations may materially understate or overstate the value that we ultimately realize upon the sale of one or more investments. We cannot predict future realized or unrealized gains or losses, and any such gains or losses are likely to vary materially from period to period. See Note 16-”Derivative Financial Instruments” of the “Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements” under Part II, Item 8 of this report for additional details.

Changes in the market for public equity offerings, mergers and acquisitions or a slowdown in private equity or venture capital investment levels may affect the needs of our clients for investment banking or mergers and acquisitions advisory services and the borrowing needs of our clients, which could in turn adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.

While an active market for public equity offerings, financings, and mergers and acquisitions activity generally has positive implications for our business, one negative consequence is that our clients may pay off or reduce their loans with us if they complete a public equity offering, are acquired by or merge with another entity or otherwise receive a significant equity investment.

By contrast, a low demand for public equity or mergers and acquisitions transactions or an inability to complete such transactions due to events affecting market conditions generally, such as a partial or full U.S. government shutdown, could result in fewer transactions overall and therefore decrease revenues of SVB Leerink, our investment banking business, as such revenues stem primarily from underwriting and advisory fees associated with capital markets and mergers and acquisitions transactions.

A slowdown in overall private equity or venture capital investment levels may reduce the need for our clients to borrow from our capital call lines of credit, which are typically utilized by our private equity and venture capital fund clients to make investments prior to receipt of capital called from their respective limited partners. Any significant reduction in the outstanding amounts of our loans or under our lines of credit could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.

Operational Risks

If we fail to retain our key employees or recruit new employees, our growth and results of operations could be adversely affected.

We rely on key personnel, including a substantial number of employees who have technical expertise in their subject matter area and a strong network of relationships with individuals and institutions in the markets we serve. In addition, as we expand into international markets, we will need to hire local personnel within those markets. Further, competition for key personnel is substantial and may increase, particularly if new competitors seek to enter one of our markets or existing market participants seek to increase their market share. If we were to have less success in recruiting and retaining these employees than our competitors, for reasons including domestic or foreign regulatory restrictions on compensation practices or the availability of more attractive opportunities elsewhere, our growth and results of operations could be adversely affected.

Moreover, equity awards are an important component of our compensation program, especially for our executive officers and other members of senior management. The extent of shares available for grant in connection with such equity awards pursuant to our incentive compensation plans is generally subject to stockholder approval. If we do not have sufficient shares to grant to existing or new employees, there could be an adverse effect on our recruiting and retention efforts, which could impact our growth and results of operations.

The occurrence of fraudulent activity, breaches of our information security or cybersecurity-related incidents could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

As a financial institution, we are susceptible to fraudulent activity, information security breaches and cybersecurity-related incidents that could be committed against us, our clients or our third party partners, which may result in financial losses or









We also offer certain services that allow non-accountholders to process payments through SVB’s systems, as well as financial analytics services. In the course of providing those services, we may obtain sensitive data about customers who do not otherwise hold accounts with us, including information regarding accounts held at other institutions, as well as profit and loss and other proprietary financial or other information regarding our customers or the non-accountholders they service. In the event of a data breach, this sensitive information may be exposed and could subject us to claims for damages.

We face risks associated with the ability of our information technology systems and our people and processes to support our operations and future growth effectively.









Business disruptions and interruptions due to natural disasters and other external events beyond our control can adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

We and other financial institutions generally must resume operations promptly following any interruption. If we were to suffer a disruption or interruption and were not able to resume normal operations within a period consistent with industry standards, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected in a material manner. In addition, depending on the nature and duration of the disruption or interruption, we might become vulnerable to fraud, additional expense or other losses, or to a loss of business and clients. Although we have implemented a business continuity management program that we continue to enhance on an ongoing basis, there can be no assurance that the program will adequately mitigate the risks of such business disruptions and interruptions.

Additionally, natural disasters and external events, including those occurring in and around California, could affect the business and operations of our clients, which could impair their ability to repay their loans or fees when due, impair the value of collateral securing their loans, cause our clients to reduce their deposits with us, or otherwise adversely affect their business dealings with us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. A significant portion of our client borrowers, including our premium winery and vineyard clients, our SVB Private Bank mortgage clients and other corporate clients, are located in or have offices in California, which has historically experienced severe natural disasters resulting in disruptions to businesses and damage to property, including wildfires and earthquakes. If there is a major earthquake, flood, fire, drought or other natural or catastrophic disaster in California or elsewhere in the markets in which we operate, our borrowers may experience uninsured property losses or sustained disruption to business or loss that may materially impair their ability to meet the terms of their loan obligations.

We face reputation and business risks due to our interactions with business partners, service providers and other third parties.

We rely on third parties, both in the United States and internationally in countries such as Canada, the United Kingdom, Germany, Denmark, Hong Kong, China, Israel and India, to provide services to us and our clients or otherwise act as partners in our business activities in a variety of ways, including through the provision of key components of our business infrastructure.









We expect these third parties to perform services for us, fulfill their obligations to us, accurately inform us of relevant information, and conduct their activities in a manner that reflects positively on our brand and business. Although we manage exposure to such third party risk through a variety of means, including the performance of due diligence and ongoing monitoring of vendor performance, there can be no assurance these efforts will be effective. Any failure of our business partners, service providers or other third parties to meet their commitments to us or to perform in accordance with our expectations could result in operational disruptions, increased expenditures, regulatory actions in which we may be held responsible for the actions of third parties, damage to our reputation and the loss of clients, which in turn could harm our business and operations, strategic growth objectives and financial performance.

Our third party partners may also rely on their own business partners and service providers in the ordinary course of their business. Although we seek to diversify our exposure to third party partners in order to increase our resiliency, we are nevertheless exposed to the risk that a disruption or other information technology event at a common service provider to our vendors could impede their ability to provide products or services to us, which in turn could harm our business and operations, strategic growth objectives and financial performance.

The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us.

Financial services institutions are interrelated because of trading, clearing, counterparty and other relationships. We routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, payment processors and other institutional clients, which may result in payment obligations to us or to our clients due to products we have arranged. Many of these transactions expose us to credit and market risk that may cause our counterparty or client to default. In particular, the interconnectivity of multiple financial services institutions with central agents, exchanges and clearing houses, and the increased centrality of these entities, increases the risk that an operational failure at one institution or entity may cause an industry-wide operational failure that could materially impact our ability to conduct business. Any losses arising from such occurrences could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.

We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties.

In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with customers and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished to us by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements and other information relating to their business or financial condition. We also may rely on representations of customers and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports or other certifications of their auditors or accountants. For example, under our accounts receivable financing arrangements, we rely on information, such as invoices, contracts and other supporting documentation, provided by our clients and their account debtors to determine the amount of credit to extend. Similarly, in deciding whether to extend credit, we may rely upon our customers’ representations that their financial statements conform to GAAP (or other applicable accounting standards in foreign markets) and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the customer. If we rely on materially misleading, false, inaccurate or fraudulent information in evaluating the creditworthiness or other risk profiles of our clients or counterparties, we could be subject to credit losses, regulatory action, reputational harm or experience other adverse effects on our business, results of operations or financial condition.

If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. As a result, current and potential holders of our securities could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our securities.

Maintaining and adapting our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related rules and regulations of the SEC, can be costly and require significant management attention. As we continue to grow or acquire additional businesses, our internal controls may become more complex and require additional resources to ensure they remain effective amidst dynamic regulatory and other guidance. Failure to maintain effective controls or implement required new or improved controls or difficulties encountered in the process may harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we or our independent registered accounting firm identify material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting or if we are otherwise required to restate our financial statements, we could be required to implement costly and time-consuming remedial measures and could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports. We may also face regulatory enforcement or other actions, including the potential delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ Stock Market. This could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, as well as the trading price of our securities, and could potentially subject us to litigation.









We face risks associated with our current international operations and ongoing international expansion.

Legal and Regulatory Risks

We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities, impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business, or result in higher costs to us, and the stringency of the regulatory framework applicable to us may increase if, and as, our balance sheet continues to grow.

SVB Financial, including the Bank, is extensively regulated under federal and state laws and regulations governing financial institutions, including those imposed by the FDIC, the Federal Reserve, the CFPB, the SEC and the DBO, as well as various regulatory authorities that govern our global activities. Federal and state laws and regulations govern, restrict, limit or otherwise affect the activities in which we may engage and may affect our ability to expand our business over time, result in an increase in our compliance costs, including higher FDIC insurance premiums, and may affect our ability to attract and retain qualified executive officers and employees (especially when compared to competitors not subject to similar restrictions). Further, the stringency of the regulatory framework that applies to us may increase as our asset size and international business grows.

A change in applicable statutes, regulations or regulatory policies could have a material adverse effect on our business, including limiting or imposing conditions on the types of financial services and products we may offer or increasing the ability of nonbanks to offer competing financial services and products. Increased regulatory requirements (and the associated compliance costs), whether due to the growth of our business, the adoption of new laws and regulations, changes in existing laws and regulations, or more expansive or aggressive interpretations of existing laws and regulations, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

If we continue to grow and meet regulatory thresholds that trigger enhanced standards, we will be subject to more stringent regulations, including certain enhanced prudential standards applicable to large bank holding companies.

As of December 31, 2019, our total consolidated assets were $71.0 billion. Under the Tailoring Rules, many enhanced prudential standards and other related requirements do not currently apply to bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $100 billion or less, such as SVB Financial. Certain enhanced prudential standards and related requirements would apply to us should we exceed $100 billion in total consolidated assets. For example, Category IV institutions under the Tailoring Rules (which generally are those with between $100 billion and $250 billion in total consolidated assets and less than $75 billion in certain risk-based indicators) are subject to additional requirements, such as supervisory stress testing and the requirement to submit an annual capital plan to the Federal Reserve.

If we become subject to additional prudential standards, we will face more stringent requirements or limitations on our business, as well as increased compliance costs. For example, if we are subject to CCAR, the Federal Reserve may object to, or otherwise not respond favorably to, our capital plan, capital actions or stress test results, and we may be limited as to how we utilize our capital, including with respect to common stock repurchases. See “Business-Supervision and Regulation-Enhanced









Prudential Standards,” under this Part I, Item 1, for a more detailed description of the various requirements that may become applicable to us.

We face a risk of noncompliance and enforcement action with the Bank Secrecy Act, other anti-money laundering and anti-bribery statutes and regulations, and U.S. economic and trade sanctions.

If we were to violate, or fail to comply with, international, federal or state laws or regulations governing financial institutions, we could be subject to disciplinary action that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operationsor reputation.

International, federal and state banking regulators possess broad powers to take supervisory or enforcement action with respect to financial institutions. Other regulatory bodies, including the SEC, FINRA and state securities regulators, regulate investment advisers and broker-dealers, including our subsidiaries, SVB Asset Management and SVB Leerink. These laws and regulations are highly complex, and if we were to violate, even if unintentionally or inadvertently, regulatory authorities could take various actions against us, such as imposing restrictions on how we conduct our business, imposing higher capital and liquidity requirements, requiring us to maintain higher insurance levels, revoking necessary licenses or authorizations, imposing censures, civil money penalties or fines, issuing cease and desist or other supervisory orders, and suspending or expelling us or any of our employees from certain businesses. For example, we could face material restrictions on our activities and our ability to enter into certain transactions if SVB Financial and the Bank cease to maintain their status as well-capitalized or well-managed as defined under relevant regulations. These enforcement actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation.

Laws and regulations regarding the handling of personal data and information may impede our services or result in increased costs, legal claims or fines against us.

Adverse results from litigation or governmental or regulatory investigations can impact our business practices and operating results.

We are currently involved in certain legal proceedings, and may from time to time be involved in governmental or regulatory investigations and inquiries relating to matters that arise in connection with the conduct of our business. While we have not recognized a material accrual liability for any lawsuits and claims filed or pending against us to date, the outcome of litigation and other legal and regulatory matters is inherently uncertain and it is possible that the actual results of one or more of such matters may be substantially higher than the amounts reserved, or that judgments may be rendered, or fines or penalties assessed









in matters for which we have no reserves. Further, adverse outcomes in lawsuits or investigations may result in significant monetary damages, admissions of guilt or injunctive relief that may adversely affect our operating results or financial condition as well as our ability to conduct our businesses as they are presently being conducted. Any such resolution of a criminal matter involving us or our employees could lead to increased exposure to civil litigation and overlapping government investigations, could adversely affect our reputation, could result in penalties or limitations on our ability to conduct our activities generally or in certain circumstances and could have other negative effects.

Moreover, even if we prevail in such actions, litigation and investigations can be costly and time-consuming, and often risk diverting the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Changes in accounting standards could materially impact our financial statements.

From time to time, the FASB or the SEC may change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. Also, our global initiatives, as well as continuing trends towards the convergence of international accounting standards, such as rules that may be adopted under the International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”), may result in our Company being subject to new or changing accounting and reporting standards. In addition, the bodies that interpret the accounting standards (such as banking regulators or outside auditors) may change their interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. These changes may be beyond our control, can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition or results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retrospectively, or apply an existing standard differently, also retrospectively, in each case resulting in our revising or restating prior period financial statements.

We could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws and regulations or the interpretations of such laws and regulations.

We are subject to the income tax laws of the United States, its constituent states and municipalities and those of the foreign jurisdictions in which we have business operations. These tax laws are complex and may be subject to different interpretations. We must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these inherently complex tax laws when determining our provision for income taxes, our deferred tax assets and liabilities, and our valuation allowance. Changes to the tax laws, administrative rulings or court decisions could increase our provision for income taxes and reduce our net income.

A failure to appropriately identify and address potential conflicts of interest could adversely affect our businesses.

Due to the broad scope of our businesses, we regularly address potential conflicts of interest, including situations where our services to a particular client or our own investments or other interests conflict, or are perceived to conflict, with the interests of that client or another client, as well as situations where one or more of our businesses have access to material non-public information that may not be shared with our other businesses and situations where we may be a creditor of an entity with which we also have an advisory or other relationship. For example, SVB Leerink provides investment banking services to clients in the healthcare and life sciences industry, some of which may also be clients or potential clients of the Bank. In addition, we invest in and partner with entities in the innovation economy, some of which may be clients or potential clients of the Bank.

We have procedures and controls designed to identify and address these conflicts of interest, including those designed to prevent the improper sharing of information among our businesses. However, appropriately identifying and dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult, and our reputation could be damaged and the willingness of clients to enter into transactions with us may be affected if we fail, or appear to fail, to identify, disclose and deal appropriately with conflicts of interest. In addition, potential or perceived conflicts could give rise to litigation or regulatory enforcement actions.

Our holding company, SVB Financial, relies on equity warrant assets income, investment distributions and dividends from its subsidiaries for most of its cash revenues.

SVB Financial is a holding company and is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. It receives most of its cash revenues from three primary funding sources: income from our equity warrant assets and investment securities and, to the extent declared, cash dividends paid by our subsidiaries, primarily the Bank. These sources generate cash which is used by SVB Financial to pay operating and borrowing costs and, to the extent authorized or declared, fund dividends to holders of its capital stock and stock repurchase programs. Any income derived from those financial instruments is subject to a variety of factors as discussed in the “Credit Risks” portion of this “Risk Factors” section. Moreover, various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Bank and certain of our nonbank subsidiaries may pay to SVB Financial. In addition, SVB Financial’s right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a liquidation or reorganization of any of its subsidiaries is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors.









Anti-takeover provisions and federal laws, particularly those applicable to financial institutions, may limit the ability of another party to acquire us, which could prevent a merger or acquisition that may be attractive to stockholders and/or have a material adverse effect on our stock price.

As a bank holding company, we are subject to certain laws that could delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us. The Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, and the Change in Bank Control Act of 1978, as amended, together with federal and state regulations, require that, depending on the particular circumstances, either the Federal Reserve must approve or, after receiving notice, must not object to any person or entity acquiring “control” (as determined under the Federal Reserve’s standards) of a bank holding company, such as SVB Financial, or a state member bank, such as the Bank. In addition, DBO approval may be required in connection with the acquisition of control of the Bank. Moreover, certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and certain other actions we may take or have taken could delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us. Any of these laws, regulations and other provisions may prevent a merger or acquisition that would be attractive to stockholders and could limit the price investors would be willing to pay in the future for our common stock.

Strategic, Reputational and Other Risks

Concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses, or, to the extent we establish internal concentration limits to mitigate such risk, lower revenues or a slow-down in growth.

Decreases in the amount of equity capital available to our portfolio companies could adversely affect our business, growth and profitability.

We face competitive pressures that could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition or growth.

We compete with other banks as well as specialty and diversified financial services companies and investment, debt, venture capital and private equity funds, some of which are larger than we are and which may offer a broader range of lending, leasing, payments, foreign currency exchange, and other financial products and advisory services to our client base. We also compete









with other alternative and more specialized lenders, such as online “marketplace” lenders, peer-to-peer lenders and other non-traditional lenders that have emerged in recent years.

Moreover, we compete with fintech and non-financial services companies, many of which offer bank or bank-like products, specialized services involving the elimination of banks as intermediaries (known as “disintermediation”) and/or the unbundling of banking products and services into point solutions. The activity of fintechs and support of fintechs by venture capital firms has increased significantly in recent years and are expected to continue to increase. For example, a number of fintechs have applied for bank or industrial loan charters or have partnered with existing banks to allow them to offer deposit products to their customers. There has also been significant fintech activity in the areas of credit cards, payments, foreign exchange and lending. Regulatory changes, such as the recently proposed revisions to the FDIC’s rules on brokered deposits intended to reflect recent technological changes and innovations, may also make it easier for fintechs to partner with banks and offer deposit products. In addition, some traditional technology companies are beginning to provide financial services directly to their customers and are expected to continue to explore new ways to do so. Many of these companies have fewer regulatory constraints than we do, and some have lower cost structures. Some of these companies also have greater resources to invest in technological improvements than we currently have and may be able to better recruit technology talent.

Our competitors may focus their marketing efforts on industry sectors that we serve; for example, they may seek to increase their lending and other financial relationships with technology companies or special industries such as wineries. When new competitors seek to enter one of our markets, or when existing market participants seek to increase their market share, they sometimes undercut the pricing and/or credit terms prevalent in that market, which could adversely affect our market share or ability to exploit new market opportunities. We may have to agree to accept less attractive credit, pricing and other investment terms if we act to meet these competitive challenges, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and future growth. Similarly, competitive pressures and market disruption could adversely affect our access to capital and attractive investment opportunities for our funds business.

Our ability to maintain or increase our market share depends on our ability to attract and maintain, as well as meet the needs of, existing and future clients.

Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to maintain or increase our market share. In particular, much of our success depends on our ability to attract early-stage or start-up companies as clients and to retain those companies as clients as they grow and mature successfully through the various stages of their life cycles. As a result, we adapt our products and services to evolving industry standards as well as introduce new products and services beyond industry standards in order to serve our clients, who are innovators themselves. A failure to achieve market acceptance for any new products or services we introduce, a failure to introduce products or services that the market demands, or the costs associated with developing, introducing and providing new products and services could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, growth prospects and financial condition.

We face risks in connection with our strategic undertakings and new business initiatives.

We are engaged, and may in the future engage, in strategic activities domestically or internationally (including acquisitions such as the acquisition of SVB Leerink), joint ventures, partnerships, investments or other business growth initiatives or undertakings. There can be no assurance that we will successfully identify appropriate opportunities, that we will be able to negotiate or finance such activities or that such activities, if undertaken, will be successful.

We are focused on our long-term growth and have undertaken various strategic activities and business initiatives, many of which involve activities that are new to us or, in some cases, are experimental in nature. For example, we are expanding our global presence and may engage in activities in jurisdictions where we have limited experience from a business, legal and/or regulatory perspective. With the acquisition of SVB Leerink, we have also expanded into new lines of business, namely, investment banking and M&A advisory services. We are also expanding our payments processing capabilities to better serve our clients, including innovating new electronic payment processing solutions, developing new payments technologies, and supporting new or evolving disruptive payments systems. We may also serve clients that deal with new or evolving industries or business activities, such as digital currencies. Given our evolving geographic and product diversification, and our innovative product solutions, these payment-related initiatives may subject us to, among other risks, increased business, reputational and operational risk, as well as more complex legal, regulatory and compliance costs and risks.

Our ability to execute strategic activities and new business initiatives successfully (such as the acquisition of SVB Leerink) will depend on a variety of factors. These factors likely will vary based on the nature of the activity but may include our success in integrating an acquired company or a new internally developed growth initiative into our business, operations, services, products, personnel and systems, operating effectively with any partner with whom we elect to do business, meeting applicable regulatory requirements and obtaining applicable regulatory licenses or other approvals, hiring or retaining key employees, achieving anticipated synergies, meeting management’s expectations, realizing the anticipated benefits of the activities, and









overall general market conditions. Our ability to address these matters successfully cannot be assured. In addition, our strategic efforts may divert resources or management’s attention from ongoing business operations and may subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny and potential liability. If we do not successfully execute a strategic undertaking, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation or growth prospects. In addition, if we were to conclude that the value of an acquired business had decreased and that the related goodwill had been impaired, that conclusion would result in an impairment of goodwill charge to us, which would adversely affect our results of operations.

In addition, in order to finance future strategic undertakings, we might require additional financing, which might not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If obtained, equity financing could be dilutive and the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.

Our business reputation and relationships are important and any damage to them could have a material adverse effect on our business.

Our reputation is very important in sustaining our business and we rely on our relationships with our current, former and potential clients and stockholders, the venture capital and private equity communities, and other actors in the industries that we serve. Any damage to our reputation, whether arising from regulatory, supervisory or enforcement actions, matters affecting our financial reporting or compliance with SEC and exchange listing requirements, negative publicity, the way in which we conduct our business or otherwise, could strain our existing relationships and make it difficult for us to develop new relationships. Additionally, negative publicity regarding the industries that we focus on serving (for example, technology, private equity or venture capital) may also damage our reputation. Any such damage to our reputation and relationships could in turn lead to a material adverse effect on our business.

Whereas negative public opinion once was primarily driven by adverse news coverage in traditional media, the increased use of social media platforms facilitates the rapid dissemination of information or misinformation, which magnifies the potential harm to our reputation. In addition, the behavior of our employees, including with respect to our employees’ use of social media, subjects us to potential negative publicity if such behavior does not align with our high standards of integrity or fails to comply with regulations or accepted practices.

An ineffective risk management framework could have a material adverse effect on our strategic planning and our ability to mitigate risks and/or losses and could have adverse regulatory consequences.

We have implemented a risk management framework to identify and manage our risk exposure. This framework is comprised of various processes, systems and strategies, and is designed to manage the types of risk to which we are subject, including, among others, credit, market, liquidity, operational, capital, compliance, strategic and reputational risks. Our framework also includes financial, analytical, forecasting or other modeling methodologies, which involve management assumptions and judgment. In addition, our Board of Directors, in consultation with management, has adopted a risk appetite statement, which sets forth certain thresholds and limits to govern our overall risk profile. However, there is no assurance that our risk management framework, including the risk metrics under our risk appetite statement, will be effective under all circumstances or that it will adequately identify, manage or mitigate any risk or loss to us. If our risk management framework is not effective, we could suffer unexpected losses and become subject to regulatory consequences, as a result of which our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected.

We rely on quantitative models to measure risks and to estimate certain financial values.









The price of our capital stock may be volatile or may decline.

The trading price of our capital stock may fluctuate or be adversely affected as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control, including trading volumes that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies. Factors that could affect the trading price of our capital stock include:

•actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition;

•changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts;

•failure to meet analysts’ revenue or earnings estimates;

•speculation in the press or investment community;

•strategic actions by us or our competitors;

•actions by institutional stockholders;

•fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors;

•general market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for the financial services industry;

•actual or anticipated changes in interest rates;

•market perceptions about the innovation economy, including levels of funding or “exit” activities of companies in the industries we serve;

•proposed or adopted regulatory changes or developments;

•anticipated or pending investigations, proceedings or litigation that involve or affect us; and

•domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance.



The trading price of the shares of our common stock and depositary shares representing fractional interests in our preferred stock and the value of our other securities will further depend on many factors, which may change from time to time, including, without limitation, our financial condition, performance, creditworthiness and prospects, and future sales of our equity or equity-related securities. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on trading prices of capital stock and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. A significant decline in the trading price of our capital stock could result in substantial losses for individual stockholders and could lead to costly and disruptive securities litigation, as well as the loss of key employees.

Our capital stock is subordinate to our existing and future indebtedness.

Our capital stock, including our common stock and depositary shares representing fractional interests in our preferred stock, ranks junior to all of SVB Financial’s existing and future indebtedness and other non-equity claims with respect to assets available to satisfy claims against us, including claims in the event of our liquidation. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future to increase our capital resources or if our total capital ratio or the total capital ratio of the Bank falls below the required minimums. Furthermore, our common stock is subordinate to our Series A Preferred Stock.

We do not currently pay dividends on shares of our common stock and may not do so in the future.

Holders of shares of our capital stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our Board of Directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. We do not currently pay dividends on our common stock and have no current plans to do so. Furthermore, the terms of our outstanding preferred stock prohibit us from declaring or paying any dividends on any junior series of our capital stock, including our common stock, or from repurchasing, redeeming or acquiring such junior stock, unless we have declared and paid full dividends on our outstanding preferred stock for the most recently completed dividend period. We are also subject to statutory and regulatory limitations on our ability to pay dividends on our capital stock. If we are unable to satisfy the capital requirements applicable to us for any reason, we may be limited in our ability to declare and pay dividends on our capital stock.



