ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS

Our business faces significant risks, including credit, market and liquidity, operational, legal and regulatory and strategic and reputational risks. The factors described below are not intended to serve as a comprehensive listing of the risks we face and are generally applicable to more than one of the following categories of risks. Additional risks and uncertainties that we have not identified as material, or of we currently are not aware, may also impair our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following factors occurs, our business, financial condition and/or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.

Credit Risks

Because of the credit profile of our loan portfolio, our levels of nonperforming assets and charge-offs can be volatile. We may need to make material provisions for loan losses in any period, which could reduce net income or increase net losses in that period.

Our loan portfolio has a credit profile different from that of most other banking companies. The credit profiles of our clients vary across our loan portfolio, based on the nature of the lending we do for different market segments. In our portfolios for early-











In addition, a meaningful portion of our loan portfolio is comprised of our larger loans, which could increase the impact on us of any single borrower default.  As of December 31, 2016, gross loans equal to or greater than $20 million to any single client (individually or in the aggregate) totaled $8.9 billion, or 44.4 percent, of our portfolio.  These larger loans have over time represented, and continue to represent, an increasingly greater portion of our total loan portfolio.  They include capital call lines of credit to our private equity and venture capital clients, as well as other loans made to our later-stage and larger corporate clients, and may be made to companies with greater levels of debt relative to their equity, balance sheet liquidity, or cash flow.  Additionally, we have continued our efforts to grow our loan portfolio by agenting or arranging larger syndicated credit facilities and participating in larger syndicates agented by other financial institutions as well as making sponsor-led buyout loans, which are leveraged buyout or recapitalization financings typically sponsored by our private equity clients.  In those arrangements where we do not act as the lead syndicate agent, our control or decision-making ability over the credit facility is typically limited to our participation interest.



Further, the repayment of financing arrangements we enter into with our clients may be dependent on the financial condition or ability of third parties to meet their payment obligations to our clients.  For example, we enter into formula-based financing arrangements that are secured by our clients’ accounts receivable from third parties with whom they do business.  We also make loans secured by letters of credit issued by other third party banks and enter into letters of credit discounting arrangements, the repayment of which may be dependent on the reimbursement by third party banks.  We also extend recurring revenue-based lines of credit, where repayment may be dependent on borrowers’ revenues from third parties.  Further, in our loan portfolio of private equity and venture capital firm clients, many of our clients have lines of credit, the repayment of which are dependent on the payment of capital calls or management fees by the underlying limited partner investors in the funds managed by these firms.  In recent periods, we have increased the levels of these capital call lines of credit.  Ultimately, these third parties may not meet their financial obligations to our clients or to us, which could have an adverse impact on us.



We also lend to private equity and venture capital professionals primarily through SVB Private Bank.  These individual clients may face difficulties meeting their financial commitments, especially during a challenging economic environment, and may be unable to repay their loans.  In certain instances, we may also relax loan covenants and conditions or extend loan terms to borrowers that are experiencing financial difficulties.  While such determinations are based on an assessment of various factors including access to additional capital in the near term, there can be no assurance that such continued support will result in any borrower meeting his or her financial commitments. In addition, we lend to premium wineries and vineyards through SVB Wine. Repayment of loans made to these clients may be dependent on overall wine demand and sales, or other sources of financing or income which may be adversely affected by a challenging economic environment, as well as overall grape supply which may be adversely affected by poor weather, heavy rains, flooding, drought, earthquake or other natural conditions.



Based on the credit profile of our overall loan portfolio, our level of nonperforming loans, loan charge-offs and allowance for loan losses can be volatile and can vary materially from period to period. Increases in our level of nonperforming loans or loan charge-offs may require us to increase our provision for loan losses in any period, which could reduce our net income or cause net losses in that period. Additionally, such increases in our level of nonperforming loans or loan charge-offs may also have an adverse effect on our capital ratios, credit ratings and market perceptions of us. See “Loans” under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Consolidated Financial Condition” under Part II, Item 7 of this report.











Our allowance for loan losses is determined based upon both objective and subjective factors, and may not be adequate to absorb loan losses.



The borrowing needs of our clients may be unpredictable, especially during a challenging economic environment. We may not be able to meet our unfunded credit commitments, or adequately reserve for losses associated with our unfunded credit commitments, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or reputation.

A commitment to extend credit is a formal agreement to lend funds to a client as long as there is no violation of any condition established under the agreement.  The actual borrowing needs of our clients under these credit commitments have historically been lower than the contractual amount of the commitments.  As a result, we typically have a substantial amount of total unfunded credit commitments reflected off our balance sheet and a significant portion of these commitments ultimately expire without being drawn upon.  See

Note 18—"Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements, Guarantees and Other Commitments" of the "Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements" under Part II, Item 8 of this report

for additional details.  However, the actual borrowing needs of our clients may exceed our expected funding requirements.  For example, our client companies may be more dependent on our credit commitments in a challenging economic environment due to the lack of available credit elsewhere, the increasing costs of credit through other channels, or the limited availability of financings from private equity or venture capital firms.  In addition, limited partner investors of our private equity and venture capital fund clients may fail to meet their underlying investment commitments due to liquidity or other financing difficulties, which may impact our clients’ borrowing needs.  Any failure to meet our unfunded credit commitments in accordance with the actual borrowing needs of our clients may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or reputation.



Further, although we have established a reserve for losses associated with our unfunded credit commitments, the level of the reserve is determined by a methodology similar to that used to establish our allowance for loan losses in our funded loan portfolio. While the reserve is susceptible to significant changes, it is primarily based on credit commitments outstanding less the amounts that have been funded, the amount of the unfunded portion that we expect to be utilized in the future, credit quality of the loan credit commitments, and management’s estimates and judgment.  There can be no assurance that our reserve for unfunded credit commitments will be adequate to provide for actual losses associated with our unfunded credit commitments.  An increase in the reserve for unfunded credit commitments in any period may result in a charge to our earnings, which could reduce our net income or increase net losses in that period.



Market and Liquidity Risks

Our current level of interest rate spread may decline in the future. Any material reduction in our interest rate spread, caused by sustained periods of low market interest rates or changes in our clients' preferences for interest-bearing deposit products in periods of rising interest rates, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.

A significant portion of our net income comes from our interest rate spread, which is the difference between the interest rates paid by us on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and internal borrowings, and the interest rates and fees we receive on our interest-earning assets such as loans extended to our clients, securities held in our investment portfolio and excess cash held to manage short-term liquidity.  The interest rates we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities and receive on our interest-earning assets, and therefore our interest rate spread, can be affected by the mix of the types of loans, investment securities, deposits and other liabilities on our balance sheet, as well as a variety of external factors beyond our control such as competition,











Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition.



Our equity warrant assets, venture capital and private equity fund investments and direct equity investment portfolio gains depend upon the performance of our portfolio investments and the general condition of the public and private equity and merger and acquisition markets, which are uncertain and may vary materially by period.











and the net proceeds ultimately realized upon disposition might be materially different than the then-current recorded fair market value.



In addition, depending on the fair value of these warrants and direct equity investments, a meaningful portion of the aggregate fair value of our total warrant and direct equity investment portfolios may, from time to time, be concentrated in a limited number of warrants and direct equity investments.  Valuation changes in one or more of these warrants or direct equity investments may have a material impact on the valuation of our total investment portfolio. We cannot predict future realized or unrealized gains or losses, and any such gains or losses are likely to vary materially from period to period.  SeeNote 13—"Derivative Financial Instruments" of the "Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements" under Part II, Item 8 of this reportfor additional details.



Public equity offerings, mergers and acquisitions or a slowdown in private equity or venture capital investment levels may reduce the borrowing needs of our clients, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.



While an active market for public equity offerings and merger and acquisition activity generally has positive implications for our business, one negative consequence is that our clients may pay off or reduce their loans with us if they complete a public equity offering, are acquired by or merge with another entity or otherwise receive a significant equity investment. Moreover, our capital call lines of credit are typically utilized by our private equity and venture capital fund clients to make investments prior to receipt of capital called from their respective limited partners. A slowdown in overall private equity or venture capital investment levels may reduce the need for our clients to borrow from our capital call lines of credit. Any significant reduction in the outstanding amounts of our loans or under our lines of credit could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.



Operational Risks

If we fail to retain our key employees or recruit new employees, our growth and results of operations could be adversely affected.

We rely on key personnel, including a substantial number of employees who have technical expertise in their subject matter area and a strong network of relationships with individuals and institutions in the markets we serve. In addition, as we expand in international markets, we will need to hire local personnel within those markets. If we were to have less success in recruiting and retaining these employees than our competitors, for reasons including domestic or foreign regulatory restrictions on compensation practices or the availability of more attractive opportunities elsewhere, our growth and results of operations could be adversely affected.



Moreover, equity awards are an important component of our compensation program, especially for our executive officers and other members of senior management. The extent of shares available for grant in connection with such equity awards pursuant to our incentive compensation plans is generally subject to stockholder approval. Our grants are also subject to our internal equity burn rate limit. If we do not have sufficient shares to grant to existing or new employees, there could be an adverse effect on our recruiting and retention efforts, which could impact our growth and results of operations.



The occurrence of fraudulent activity, breaches of our information security or cybersecurity-related incidents could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.











We also offer certain services that allow non-accountholders to process payments through SVB’s systems, as well as financial analytics services. In the course of providing those services, we may obtain sensitive data about customers who do not otherwise hold accounts with us, including information regarding accounts held at other institutions, as well as profit and loss and other proprietary financial or other information regarding our customers or the non-accountholders they service. In the event of a data breach, this sensitive information may be exposed and could subject us to claims for damages.





More generally, publicized information concerning security and cyber-related problems could inhibit the use or growth of electronic or web-based applications or solutions as a means of conducting commercial transactions. Such publicity may also cause damage to our reputation as a financial institution. As a result, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected.



We face risks associated with the ability of our information technology systems and our people and processes to support our operations and future growth effectively.









Business disruptions and interruptions due to natural disasters and other external events beyond our control can adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Our operations can be subject to natural disasters and other external events beyond our control, such as earthquakes, fires, floods, severe weather, public health issues, power failures, telecommunication loss, major accidents, terrorist attacks, acts of war, and other natural and man-made events.  For example, our corporate headquarters and some of our critical business offices are located in California, near major earthquake faults.  An earthquake or other event of disaster could cause severe destruction, disruption or interruption to our operations or property.  We and other financial institutions generally must resume operations promptly following any interruption.  If we were to suffer a disruption or interruption and were not able to resume normal operations within a period consistent with industry standards, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected in a material manner.  In addition, depending on the nature and duration of the disruption or interruption, we might become vulnerable to fraud, additional expense or other losses, or to a loss of business and clients.  Although we have implemented a business continuity management program that we continue to enhance on an ongoing basis, there can be no assurance that the program will adequately mitigate the risks of such business disruptions and interruptions.



Additionally, natural disasters and external events, including those occurring in and around the state of California,  could affect the business and operations of our clients, which could impair their ability to pay their loans or fees when due, impair the value of collateral securing their loans, cause our clients to reduce their deposits with us, or otherwise adversely affect their business dealings with us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. A significant portion of our client borrowers, including our premium winery and vineyard clients, our Private Bank mortgage clients and other corporate clients, are located in or have offices in the state of California, which has historically experienced severe natural disasters resulting in disruptions to businesses and damage to property. If there is a major earthquake, flood, fire, drought or other natural disaster in California or elsewhere in the markets in which we operate, our borrowers may experience uninsured property losses or sustained disruption to business or loss that may materially impair their ability to meet the terms of their loan obligations.



We face reputation and business risks due to our interactions with business partners, service providers and other third parties.

We rely on third parties, both in the United States and internationally in countries such as the United Kingdom, Hong Kong, China, Israel and India, to provide services to us and our clients or otherwise act as partners in our business activities in a variety of ways, including through the provision of key components of our business infrastructure. We expect these third parties to perform services for us, fulfill their obligations to us, accurately inform us of relevant information, and conduct their activities in a manner that reflects positively on our brand and business. Although we manage exposure to such third party risk through a variety of means [including the performance of due diligence and ongoing monitoring of vendor performance], there can be no assurance these efforts will be effective. Any failure of our business partners, service providers or other third parties to meet their commitments to us or to perform in accordance with our expectations could result in operational disruptions, increased expenditures, regulatory actions in which we may be held responsible for the actions of third parties, damage to our reputation and the loss of clients, which in turn could harm our business and operations, strategic growth objectives and financial performance.

The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us.

Financial services institutions are interrelated because of trading, clearing, counterparty and other relationships.  We routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, payment processors, and other institutional clients, which may result in payment obligations to us or to our clients due to products we have arranged.  Many of these transactions expose us to credit and market risk that may cause our counterparty or client to default. In addition, we are exposed to market risk when the collateral we hold cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the secured obligation.  Any losses arising from such occurrences could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.

We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties.

In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with customers and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished to us by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements and other information relating to their business or financial condition.  We also may rely on representations of customers and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports or other certifications of their auditors or accountants. For example, under our accounts receivable financing arrangements, we rely on information, such as invoices, contracts and other supporting documentation, provided by our clients and their account debtors to determine the amount of credit to extend. Similarly, in deciding whether to extend credit, we may rely upon our customers’ representations that their financial statements conform to U.S. GAAP (or other applicable accounting standards in foreign markets) and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the customer.  If we rely on materially









misleading, false, inaccurate or fraudulent information in evaluating the credit-worthiness or other risk-profiles of our clients or counterparties, we could be subject to loan losses, regulatory action, reputational harm or experience other adverse effects on our business, results of operations or financial condition.

Our accounting policies and methods are key to how we report our financial condition and results of operations. They require management to make judgments and estimates about matters that are uncertain.

Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations.  Our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with U.S. GAAP and reflect management's judgment of the most appropriate manner to report our financial condition or results. In some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which might be reasonable under the circumstances yet might result in our reporting materially different amounts than would have been reported under a different alternative.

If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. As a result, current and potential holders of our securities could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our securities.

Maintaining and adapting our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, is expensive and requires significant management attention.  Moreover, as we continue to grow, our internal controls may become more complex and require additional resources to ensure they remain effective amid dynamic regulatory and other guidance. Failure to implement effective controls or difficulties encountered in the process may harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we or our independent registered accounting firm identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting or are otherwise required to restate our financial statements, we could be required to implement expensive and time-consuming remedial measures and could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports. We may also face regulatory enforcement or other actions, including the potential delisting of our securities from the NASDAQ Stock Market. This could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, as well as the trading price of our securities, and could potentially subject us to litigation.

We face risks associated with international operations.

Legal and Regulatory Risks

We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities, impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business, or result in higher costs to us, and the stringency of the regulatory framework applicable to us may increase if, and as, our asset size continues to grow.

SVB Financial Group, including the Bank, is extensively regulated under federal and state laws and regulations governing financial institutions, including those imposed by the FDIC, the Federal Reserve, the CFPB, and the DBO, as well as various regulatory authorities that govern our global activities.  Federal and state laws and regulations govern, restrict, limit or otherwise











We are subject to the Volcker Rule, which limits certain trading and investment activities by banking entities and has required us to modify our historical venture capital fund investment and sponsorship activities.





We estimate that our total venture capital and private equity fund investments deemed to be prohibited covered fund interests had an aggregate carrying value of approximately$194 million(and an aggregate fair value of approximately$300 million) as ofDecember 31, 2016. These covered fund interests are comprised of interests attributable, solely, to us in our consolidated managed funds and certain of our non-marketable securities. The Volcker Rule restrictions could have a material adverse effect on our investment portfolio and results of operations. The actual impact from these restrictions will be dependent on a variety of factors, including our ability to obtain regulatory extensions, our ability to sell the investments, our carrying value at the time of any sale, the actual sales price realized, the timing of such sales, and any additional regulatory guidance or interpretations of the Volcker Rule.



If we continue to grow and our total consolidated assets reach or exceed $50 billion, we will be subject to more stringent regulations, including enhanced prudential standards, required by the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations adopted by the Federal Reserve applicable to large bank holding companies.



As ofDecember 31, 2016, our total consolidated assets were$44.7 billion. Under the Federal Reserve’s enhanced prudential standard regulations, SVB Financial would become subject to more stringent prudential standards if, whether as a result of organic growth, potential future acquisitions or otherwise, we averaged total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more at the end of a four-quarter period.  Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the more stringent prudential standards include requirements related to









risk-based and leverage capital, liquidity, risk management, resolution planning, supervisory capital stress testing, single counterparty credit exposure limits, and early remediation - all of which require appropriate resources and planning.  The Dodd-Frank Act further permits, but does not require, the Federal Reserve to apply enhanced prudential standards to large bank holding companies in other areas, including short-term debt limits and enhanced public disclosures.





See “Business-Supervision and Regulation-Enhanced Prudential Standards,” under this Part I, Item 1, for a more detailed description of the various requirements which may become applicable to us.



We face a risk of noncompliance and enforcement action with the Bank Secrecy Act, other anti-money laundering and anti-bribery statutes and regulations, and U.S. economic and trade sanctions.



If we were to violate, or fail to comply with, international, federal or state laws or regulations governing financial institutions, we could be subject to disciplinary action that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operationsor reputation.

International, federal and state banking regulators possess broad powers to take supervisory or enforcement action with respect to financial institutions.  Other regulatory bodies, including the SEC, FINRA and state securities regulators, regulate investment advisers and broker-dealers, including our subsidiaries, SVB Asset Management and SVB Securities.  These regulations are highly complex, and if we were to violate, even if unintentionally or inadvertently, the laws and regulations governing financial institutions and broker-dealers, these regulatory authorities could take various actions against us, such as imposing restrictions on how we conduct our business, imposing higher capital and liquidity requirements, requiring us to maintain higher insurance levels, revoking necessary licenses or authorizations, imposing censures, civil money penalties or fines, issuing cease and desist or other supervisory orders, and suspending or expelling us or any of our employees from the securities business. These remedies and supervisory actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation.



Adverse results from litigation or governmental or regulatory investigations can impact our business practices and operating results.

We are currently involved in certain legal proceedings, and may from time to time be involved in governmental or regulatory investigations and inquiries relating to matters that arise in connection with the conduct of our business.  While we have not recognized a material accrual liability for any lawsuits and claims filed or pending against us to date, the outcome of litigation









and other legal and regulatory matters is inherently uncertain and it is possible that the actual results of one or more of such matters may be substantially higher than the amounts reserved, or that judgments may be rendered, or fines or penalties assessed in matters for which we have no reserves. Further, adverse outcomes in lawsuits or investigations may result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that may adversely affect our operating results or financial condition as well as our ability to conduct our businesses as they are presently being conducted. Moreover, even if we prevail in such actions, litigation and investigations can be costly and time-consuming, and often risks diverting the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.



Changes in accounting standards could materially impact our financial statements.

From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board or the SEC may change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements.  Also, our global initiatives, as well as continuing trends towards the convergence of international accounting standards, such as rules that may be adopted under the International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”), may result in our Company being subject to new or changing accounting and reporting standards. In addition, the bodies that interpret the accounting standards (such as banking regulators or outside auditors) may change their interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. These changes may be beyond our control, can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition or results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retrospectively, or apply an existing standard differently, also retrospectively, in each case resulting in our revising or restating prior period financial statements.



Changes in legislation, regulation and government policy resulting from the 2016 U.S. presidential and congressional elections may have a material adverse effect on our business in the future.

The recent presidential and congressional elections in the United States could result in significant changes in, and uncertainty with respect to, U.S. legislation, regulation and government policy, which could potentially lead to significant changes in international legislation, regulation or government policy.  While it is not possible to predict whether and when any such changes will occur, changes at the local, state, federal or international level could significantly impact our business and financial condition, how we operate, the industries in which we serve or compete, or our clients.  We are currently unable to predict whether reform discussions will meaningfully change existing legislative and regulatory environments relevant for our business, or if any such changes would have a net positive or negative impact on our business.  To the extent that such changes have a negative impact on us or the industries relevant to us, including as a result of such related uncertainty, these changes may materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.



Our holding company, SVB Financial, relies on warrant income, investment distributions and dividends from its subsidiaries for most of its cash revenues.

SVB Financial is a holding company and is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries.  It receives most of its cash revenues from three primary funding sources: warrant income, investment distributions and, to the extent declared, cash dividends paid by its subsidiaries, primarily the Bank.  These sources generate cash which is used by SVB Financial to pay operating and borrowing costs and, to the extent authorized or declared, fund dividends to stockholders and stock repurchase programs.  Any income derived from those financial instruments is subject to a variety of factors as discussed in the “Credit Risks” portion of this “Risk Factors” section.  Moreover, various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Bank and certain of our nonbank subsidiaries may pay to SVB Financial. In addition, SVB Financial’s right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a liquidation or reorganization of any of its subsidiaries is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors.



Anti-takeover provisions and federal laws, particularly those applicable to financial institutions, may limit the ability of another party to acquire us, which could prevent a merger or acquisition that may be attractive to stockholders and/or have a material adverse effect on our stock price.

As a bank holding company, we are subject to certain laws that could delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us.  The Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, and the Change in Bank Control Act of 1978, as amended, together with federal and state regulations, require that, depending on the particular circumstances, either the Federal Reserve must approve or after receiving notice, must not object to any person or entity acquiring “control” (as determined under the Federal Reserve's standards) of a bank holding company, such as SVB Financial, or a state member bank, such as the Bank.  In addition, DBO approval may be required in connection with the acquisition of control of the Bank.  Moreover, certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and certain other actions we may take or have taken could delay or prevent a third-party from acquiring us, any of these laws, regulations and other provisions may prevent a merger or acquisition that would be attractive to stockholders and could limit the price investors would be willing to pay in the future for our common stock.











Strategic, Reputational and Other Risks

Concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses, or to the extent we establish internal concentration limits to mitigate such risk, lower revenues or a slow-down in growth.



Decreases in the amount of equity capital available to our portfolio companies could adversely affect our business, growth and profitability.



We face competitive pressures that could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition or future growth.











Our ability to maintain or increase our market share depends on our ability to attract and maintain, as well as meet the needs of, existing and future clients.

Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to maintain or increase our market share.  In particular, much of our success depends on our ability to attract early-stage or start-up companies as clients and to retain those companies as clients as they grow and mature successfully through the various stages of their life cycles. As a result, we adapt our products and services to evolving industry standards as well as introduce new products and services beyond industry standards in order to serve our clients, who are innovators themselves.  A failure to achieve market acceptance for any new products or services we introduce, a failure to introduce products or services that the market demands, or the costs associated with developing, introducing and providing new products and services could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, growth prospects and financial condition.



We face risks in connection with our strategic undertakings and new business initiatives.



We are engaged, and may in the future engage, in strategic activities domestically or internationally, including acquisitions, joint ventures, partnerships, investments or other business growth initiatives or undertakings. There can be no assurance that we will successfully identify appropriate opportunities, that we will be able to negotiate or finance such activities or that such activities, if undertaken, will be successful.



We are focused on our long-term growth and have undertaken various strategic activities and business initiatives, many of which involve activities that are new to us, or in some cases, are experimental in nature. For example, we are expanding our global presence and may engage in activities in jurisdictions where we have limited experience or where legal and regulatory requirements are less certain than in the United States.  We are also expanding our payments processing capabilities to better serve our clients, including innovating new electronic payment processing solutions, developing new payments technologies, and supporting new or evolving disruptive payments systems.  Given our evolving geographic and product diversification, and our innovative product solutions, these payment-related initiatives may subject us to, among other risks, increased business, reputational and operational risk, as well as more complex legal, regulatory and compliance costs and risks.



Our ability to execute strategic activities and new business initiatives successfully will depend on a variety of factors. These factors likely will vary based on the nature of the activity but may include our success in integrating an acquired company or a new internally-developed growth initiative into our business, operations, services, products, personnel and systems, operating effectively with any partner with whom we elect to do business, meeting applicable regulatory requirements and obtaining applicable regulatory licenses or other approvals, hiring or retaining key employees, achieving anticipated synergies, meeting management's expectations, actually realizing the anticipated benefits of the activities, and overall general market conditions. Our ability to address these matters successfully cannot be assured. In addition, our strategic efforts may divert resources or management's attention from ongoing business operations and may subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny and potential liability. If we do not successfully execute a strategic undertaking, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation or growth prospects. In addition, if we were to conclude that the value of an acquired business had decreased and that the related goodwill had been impaired, that conclusion would result in an impairment of goodwill charge to us, which would adversely affect our results of operations.



In addition, in order to finance future strategic undertakings, we might require additional financing, which might not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If obtained, equity financing could be dilutive and the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.



Our business reputation and relationships are important and any damage to them could have a material adverse effect on our business.

Our reputation is very important in sustaining our business and we rely on our relationships with our current, former and potential clients and stockholders, the venture capital and private equity communities, and other actors in the industries that we serve.  Any damage to our reputation, whether arising from regulatory, supervisory or enforcement actions, matters affecting our financial reporting or compliance with SEC and exchange listing requirements, negative publicity, the way in which we conduct our business or otherwise could strain our existing relationships and make it difficult for us to develop new relationships. Any such damage to our reputation and relationships could in turn lead to a material adverse effect on our business.



An ineffective risk management framework could have a material adverse effect on our strategic planning and our ability to mitigate risks and/or losses and could have adverse regulatory consequences.



We have implemented a risk management framework to identify and manage our risk exposure. This framework is comprised of various processes, systems and strategies, and is designed to manage the types of risk to which we are subject, including,









among others, credit, market, liquidity, operational, capital, compliance, strategic and, reputational risks. Our framework also includes financial, analytical, forecasting, or other modeling methodologies, which involves management assumptions and judgment.  In addition, our Board of Directors, in consultation with management, has adopted a risk appetite statement, which sets forth certain thresholds and limits to govern our overall risk profile. However, there is no assurance that our risk management framework, including the risk metrics under our risk appetite statement, will be effective under all circumstances or that it will adequately identify, manage or mitigate any risk or loss to us. If our risk management framework is not effective, we could suffer unexpected losses and become subject to regulatory consequences, as a result of which our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected. In addition, if we grow to total consolidated assets of $50 billion or greater, we will become subject to more stringent risk management requirements that could increase our compliance costs and require us to further enhance our risk management framework and practices.  See the section "Business-Supervision and Regulation-Enhanced Prudential Standards" under this Part I, Item 1.



We rely on quantitative models to measure risks and to estimate certain financial values.





Our capital stress testing processes rely on analytical and forecasting models that may prove to be inadequate or inaccurate, which could adversely affect the effectiveness of our strategic planning and our ability to pursue certain corporate goals.



In accordance with the Dodd-Frank Act and the Federal Reserve’s regulations thereunder, banking organizations with $10 billion to $50 billion in assets are required to perform annual capital stress tests.  The results of our capital stress tests may require us to increase our regulatory capital, raise additional capital or take or decline to take certain other capital-related actions under certain circumstances.  Our stress testing processes also rely on our use of analytical and forecasting models. These models reflect assumptions that may not be accurate, particularly in times of market stress or other unforeseen circumstances. Furthermore, even if our assumptions are accurate predictors of future performance, the models they are based on may prove to be inadequate or inaccurate because of other flaws in their design or implementation. Also, the assumptions we utilize for our stress tests may not be met with regulatory approval, which could result in our stress tests receiving a failing grade. In addition to adversely affecting our reputation, failing our stress tests would likely preclude or delay the possibility of our growth through acquisition, and would limit our ability to pay any cash dividends.



We could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws and regulations or the interpretations of such laws and regulations.



We are subject to the income tax laws of the U.S., its states and municipalities and those of the foreign jurisdictions in which we have business operations. These tax laws are complex and may be subject to different interpretations. We must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these inherently complex tax laws when determining our provision for income taxes, our deferred tax assets and liabilities, and our valuation allowance. Changes to the tax laws, administrative rulings or court decisions could increase our provision for income taxes and reduce our net income.



In particular, U.S. tax laws and regulations may continue to change from time-to-time. While impossible to predict, governments’ need for additional revenue may lead to continued proposals to change tax rules in ways that could increase our effective tax rate. In addition, these changes could include a widening of the corporate tax base by including earnings from international operations that are not currently required to be included.  Such changes to the tax laws could have a material impact on our income tax expense.











The price of our common stock may be volatile or may decline.

The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control.  In addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in trading volumes that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are:

•actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition;

•changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts;

•failure to meet analysts’ revenue or earnings estimates;

•speculation in the press or investment community;

•strategic actions by us or our competitors;

•actions by institutional stockholders;

•fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors;

•general market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for the financial services industry;

•market perceptions about the innovation economy, including levels of funding or "exit" activities of companies in the industries we serve;

•proposed or adopted regulatory changes or developments;

•anticipated or pending investigations, proceedings or litigation that involve or affect us; and

•domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance.



The trading price of the shares of our common stock and the value of our other securities will further depend on many factors, which may change from time to time, including, without limitation, our financial condition, performance, creditworthiness and prospects, and future sales of our equity or equity-related securities.  In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. A significant decline in our stock price could result in substantial losses for individual stockholders and could lead to costly and disruptive securities litigation, as well as the loss of key employees.



