ITEM 1.BUSINESS

General

We own, acquire, develop and manage technology-related real estate. We target high-quality, strategically located properties containing
applications and operations critical to the day-to-day operations of technology industry tenants and corporate enterprise datacenter users, including the information technology, or IT, departments of Fortune 100 and financial services companies. Our
tenant base is diversified within the technology industry and reflects a broad spectrum of regional, national and international tenants that are leaders in their respective areas. Digital Realty Trust, L.P., a Maryland limited partnership, is the
entity through which Digital Realty Trust, Inc., a Maryland corporation, conducts its business and owns its assets. Digital Realty Trust, Inc. operates as a REIT for federal income tax purposes.

At December 31, 2012, we owned 117 properties, excluding three properties held as investments in unconsolidated joint ventures, of
which 92 are located throughout North America, 21 are located in Europe, three are located in Australia and one is located in Asia. Our portfolio is diversified in major markets where corporate datacenter and technology tenants are concentrated,
including the Boston, Chicago, Dallas, Los Angeles, New York Metro, Northern Virginia, Phoenix, San Francisco and Silicon Valley metropolitan areas in the United States, Amsterdam, Dublin, London and Paris markets in Europe and Singapore,
Sydney and Melbourne markets in the Asia Pacific region. Our properties contain a total of approximately 21.9 million net rentable square feet, including approximately 2.4 million square feet of space held for development. A significant
component of our current and future internal growth is anticipated through the development of our existing space held for development and through acquisitions of new properties. As of December 31, 2012, our portfolio, excluding space held for
development, was approximately 94.4% leased. The types of properties within our focus include:



•Internet gateway datacenters, which serve as hubs for Internet and data communications within and between major metropolitan areas;



•Corporate datacenters, which provide secure, continuously available environments for the storage and processing of critical electronic information.
Data centers are used for disaster recovery purposes, transaction processing and to house corporate IT operations;



•Technology manufacturing properties, which contain highly specialized manufacturing environments for such purposes as semiconductor manufacturing and
specialty pharmaceutical manufacturing; and



•Regional or national offices of technology companies that are located in our target markets.

Unlike traditional office and flex/research and development space, the location of and improvements to our facilities are generally
essential to our tenants’ businesses, which we believe results in high occupancy levels, long lease terms and low tenant turnover. In addition, many of our properties have tenant improvements that have been installed at our tenants’
expense. The tenant improvements in our facilities are generally readily adaptable for use by similar tenants.

Digital Realty
Trust, Inc. was incorporated in the state of Maryland on March 9, 2004. Digital Realty Trust, L.P. was organized in the state of Maryland on July 21, 2004. Our principal executive offices are located at Four Embarcadero Center, Suite
3200, San Francisco, California 94111. Our telephone number at that location is (415) 738-6500. Our website is located at www.digitalrealty.com. The information found on, or otherwise accessible through, our website is not incorporated
into, and does not form a part of, this annual report or any other report or document we file with or furnish to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC.

Recent Developments

On November 1, 2012, we completed the acquisition
of a 271,000 square foot development property located on 34.31 acres of land in Totowa, New Jersey for a purchase price of approximately $16.8 million. The acquisition was financed with borrowings under our global revolving credit facility.







On December 19, 2012, we completed the acquisition of an approximately 52,000 square
foot data center in the Sydney market area for a purchase price of A$11.8 million (equivalent to $12.3 million based on the December 19, 2012 exchange rate of A$1.00 to $1.05). The acquisition was financed with borrowings under our global
revolving credit facility.

On December 27, 2012, we completed the acquisition of three data centers that total
approximately 186,000 square feet in the Paris market area for a purchase price of €60 million (equivalent to $79.4 million based on the December 27, 2012 exchange rate of €1.00 to $1.32). The acquisition was financed with
borrowings under our global revolving credit facility.

On January 18, 2013, Digital Stout Holding, LLC, a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Digital Realty Trust, L.P, issued £400.0 million (or approximately $634.8 million based on the January 18, 2013 exchange rate of £1.00 to $1.59) aggregate principal amount of its 4.250% Guaranteed Notes due 2025,
or the 2025 notes. The 2025 notes are senior unsecured obligations of Digital Stout Holding, LLC and are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by us and Digital Realty Trust, L.P. Interest on the 2025 notes is payable semiannually in
arrears at a rate of 4.250% per annum. We intend to use the net proceeds from the offering of the 2025 notes to temporarily repay borrowings under our global revolving credit facility, to acquire additional properties, to fund development
opportunities, for general working capital purposes or a combination of the foregoing.

On January 28, 2013, we completed
the acquisition of two properties for an aggregate purchase price of $32.5 million. One property is a 61,750 square foot datacenter and is located in the Dallas metropolitan area. The other property consists of three buildings totaling
approximately 245,000 square feet and is located in the Phoenix metropolitan area. Two of the buildings are non-technical single tenant sale-leasebacks and the third building will be developed. The acquisitions were financed with borrowings under
our global revolving credit facility.

On February 12, 2013, we declared the following dividends per share. The operating
partnership will make an equivalent distribution per unit.



Share ClassSeries DPreferred Stockand UnitSeries EPreferred Stockand UnitSeries FPreferred Stockand UnitCommon stockand common unitDividend and distribution amount$0.343750$0.437500$0.414063$0.780000Dividend and distribution payable dateMarch 29, 2013March 29, 2013March 29, 2013March 29, 2013Dividend and distribution payable to holders of record onMarch 15, 2013March 15, 2013March 15, 2013March 15, 2013Annual equivalent rate of dividend and distribution$1.375$1.750$1.65625$3.120

Effective February 26, 2013, Digital Realty Trust, Inc. converted all outstanding shares of its
series D preferred stock into shares of its common stock in accordance with the terms of the series D preferred stock. Each share of series D preferred stock was converted into 0.6360 shares of common stock of Digital Realty Trust, Inc.

Our Competitive Strengths

We believe we distinguish ourselves from other owners, acquirors and managers of technology-related real estate through our competitive
strengths, which include:



•High-Quality Portfolio that is Difficult to Replicate.Our portfolio contains state-of-the-art data center facilities with extensive tenant
improvements. Based on current market rents and the estimated replacement costs of our properties and their improvements, we believe that they could not be replicated today on a cost-competitive basis. Our portfolio of corporate and Internet gateway
data center facilities is equipped to meet the power and cooling requirements for the most demanding corporate IT







applications. Many of the properties in our portfolio are located on major aggregation points formed by the physical presence of multiple major telecommunications service providers, which reduces
our tenants’ costs and operational risks and increases the attractiveness of our buildings.



•Presence in Key Markets.Our portfolio is located in 32 metropolitan areas, including the Boston, Chicago, Dallas, Los Angeles, New York Metro,
Northern Virginia, Phoenix, San Francisco and Silicon Valley metropolitan areas in the United States, the Amsterdam, Dublin, London and Paris markets in Europe and the Singapore, Sydney and Melbourne markets in the Asia Pacific region, and is
diversified so that no one market represented more than 12.1% of the aggregate annualized rent of our portfolio as of December 31, 2012. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations—Overview—Revenue Base.”



•Proven Experience Executing New Leases.We have considerable experience in identifying and leasing to new tenants. The combination of our
specialized data center leasing team and customer referrals continues to provide a robust pipeline of new tenants. During the year ended December 31, 2012, we commenced new leases totaling approximately 1.0 million square feet, which
represent approximately $134.9 million in annualized GAAP rent. These leases were comprised of Powered Base
Buildings®, Turn-Key FlexSM, Custom Solutions (formerly referred to as Build-to-Suit) and ancillary office and other uses.



•Demonstrated Acquisition Capability.As of December 31, 2012, our portfolio consisted of 117 technology-related real estate properties,
excluding three properties held as investments in unconsolidated joint ventures and developable land, for an aggregate of 21.9 million net rentable square feet, including approximately 2.4 million square feet of space held for development.
We have developed detailed, standardized procedures for evaluating acquisitions, including income producing assets and vacant properties suitable for development, to ensure that they meet our financial, technical and other criteria. These procedures
and our in-depth knowledge of the technology and data center industries allow us to identify strategically located properties and evaluate investment opportunities efficiently and, as appropriate, commit and close quickly. Our broad network of
contacts within a highly fragmented universe of sellers and brokers of technology-related real estate enables us to capitalize on acquisition opportunities. As a result, we acquired a substantial portion of our properties before they were broadly
marketed by real estate brokers.



•Flexible Datacenter Solutions.We provide flexible, customer oriented solutions designed to meet the needs of technology and corporate data
center users, including Turn-Key FlexSM, Powered Base
Building®and Custom Solutions options. Our Turn-Key
FlexSMdatacenters are move-in ready, physically secure
facilities with the power and cooling capabilities to support mission-critical IT enterprise applications. We believe our Turn-Key FlexSMfacilities are effective solutions for tenants that lack the expertise, capital budget or desire to provide their own
extensive data center infrastructure, management and security. For tenants that possess the ability to build and operate their own facility, our Powered Base Building®solution provides the physical location, required power and network access necessary to support a state-of-the-art data center. Our in-house engineering and design
and construction professionals can also provide tenants with our Custom Solutions product to meet their unique specifications. Our Critical Facilities Management®services and team of technical engineers and data center operations experts provide 24/7 support for these mission-critical facilities.



•Differentiating Development Advantages.Our extensive development activity, operating scale and process-based approach to data center design,
construction and operations result in significant cost savings and added value for our tenants. We have leveraged our purchasing power by securing global purchasing agreements and developing relationships with major equipment manufacturers, reducing
costs and shortening delivery timeframes on key components, including major mechanical and electrical equipment. Utilizing our innovative modular data center design referred to as POD Architecture®, we deliver what we believe to be a technically superior data center environment at significant cost savings. In addition, by utilizing our POD Architecture®to develop new Turn-Key FlexSMfacilities in our existing Powered Base Building®facilities, on average we are able to deliver a fully commissioned







facility in just under 30 weeks. Finally, our access to capital allows us to provide data center solutions for tenants that do not want to invest their own capital.



•Diverse Tenant Base Across a Variety of Industry Sectors.We use our in-depth knowledge of the requirements and trends for Internet and data
communications and corporate data center users to market our properties to domestic and international tenants with specific technology needs. At December 31, 2012, we had 595 tenants across a variety of industry sectors, ranging from
information technology and Internet enterprises to financial services, energy and manufacturing companies. Our largest tenant, comprised of subsidiaries of CenturyLink, Inc., accounted for approximately 9.1% of the aggregate annualized rent of our
portfolio as of December 31, 2012 and no other single tenant accounted for more than approximately 4% of the aggregate annualized rent of our portfolio.



•Experienced and Committed Management Team and Organization.Our senior management team has an average of over 30 years of experience in the
technology or real estate industries, including experience as investors in, advisors to and founders of technology companies. We believe that our senior management team’s extensive knowledge of both the real estate and the technology industries
provides us with a key competitive advantage. At December 31, 2012, our senior management team and directors collectively owned common equity interests in our company of approximately 0.5%, which aligns their interests with those of our
stockholders.

Business and Growth Strategies

Our primary business objectives are to maximize sustainable long-term growth in earnings and funds from operations per share and unit and
to maximize cash flow and returns to our stockholders and our operating partnership’s unitholders, including through the payment of distributions. Our business strategies to achieve these objectives are:



•Achieve Superior Returns on Development Inventory.At December 31, 2012, we had approximately 2.4 million square feet of space held
for development. At December 31, 2012, approximately 1,372,000 square feet was under construction for Turn-Key
FlexSM, Powered Base Building®and Custom Solutions products, all of which are expected to be income producing when complete in 10 U.S. markets,
one European market and one Australian market, consisting of approximately 413,000 square feet of space under development projects and approximately 959,000 square feet of land under development projects. We will continue to build-out our
development portfolio when justified by anticipated returns.



•Capitalize on Acquisition Opportunities.We believe that acquisitions enable us to increase cash flow and create long-term stockholder
value. Our relationships with corporate information technology groups, technology tenants and real estate brokers who are dedicated to serving these tenants provide us with ongoing access to potential acquisitions and often enable us to avoid
competitive bidding. Furthermore, the specialized nature of technology-related real estate makes it more difficult for traditional real estate investors to understand, which results in reduced competition for acquisitions relative to other property
types. We believe this dynamic creates an opportunity for us to obtain better risk-adjusted returns on our capital.



•Access and Use Capital Efficiently.We believe we can increase stockholder returns by effectively accessing and deploying capital. Since Digital
Realty Trust, Inc.’s initial public offering in 2004, our company has raised approximately $11.2 billion of capital through common, preferred and convertible preferred equity offerings, exchangeable debt offerings, non-exchangeable bond
offerings, our global revolving credit facility, our term loan facility, the Amended and Restated Note Purchase and Private Shelf Agreement dated November 3, 2011, which we refer to as our Prudential shelf facility, among Prudential Investment
Management, Inc., us, certain of our subsidiaries and the purchasers set forth therein, secured mortgage financings and refinancings and sales of non-core assets. We will endeavor to maintain financial flexibility while using our liquidity and
access to capital to support operations, including our acquisition, leasing and development programs, which are important sources of our growth.







•Maximize the Cash Flow of Our Properties.We aggressively manage and lease our assets to increase their cash flow. We often acquire
properties with substantial in-place cash flow and some vacancy, which enables us to create upside through lease-up. Moreover, many of our properties contain extensive in-place infrastructure or buildout that may result in higher rents when leased
to tenants seeking these improvements. We control our costs by negotiating expense pass-through provisions in tenant leases for operating expenses, including power costs and certain capital expenditures. Leases covering approximately 72% of the
leased net rentable square feet in our portfolio as of December 31, 2012 required tenants to pay all or a portion of increases in operating expenses, including real estate taxes, insurance, common area charges and other expenses.



•Leverage Strong Industry Relationships.We use our strong industry relationships with national and regional corporate enterprise information
technology groups and technology-intensive companies to identify and comprehensively respond to their real estate needs. Our company’s leasing and sales professionals are real estate and technology industry specialists who can develop complex
facility solutions for the most demanding corporate data center and other technology tenants.

Competition

Geographic Information

Operating revenues from properties in the United
States were $1,050.2 million, $946.0 million and $771.7 million and outside the United States were $228.9 million, $116.7 million and $93.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. We had
long-lived assets located in the United States of $5,009.6 million, $4,255.2 million and $3,806.3 million and outside the United States of $2,526.9 million, $963.3 million and $760.5 million as of December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010,
respectively.

Operating revenues from properties located in England were $117.2 million $43.6 million and
$38.6 million, or 9.2%, 4.1% and 4.5% of total operating revenues for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. No foreign country comprised more than 10% of total operating revenues. We had long-lived assets located
in England of $1,679.5 million, $356.0 million and $288.2 million, or 22.3%, 6.8% and 6.3% of total long-lived assets as of December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, no other foreign country comprised more than 10% of total long-lived
assets as of December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. See “Risk Factors —Ownership of properties located outside of the United States subjects us to foreign currency and related risks which may adversely impact our ability to
make distributions”, “—Our international activities are subject to special risks different than those faced by us in the United States and we may not be able to effectively manage our international business” and “—We
face risks with our international acquisitions associated with investing in unfamiliar markets” for risks relating to our foreign operations.







Regulation

General

Office properties in our markets are subject to various
laws, ordinances and regulations, including regulations relating to common areas. We believe that each of our properties as of December 31, 2012 has the necessary permits and approvals to operate its business.

Americans With Disabilities Act

Our properties must comply with Title III of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or the ADA, to the extent that such properties are “public accommodations” as defined by the ADA. The
ADA may require removal of structural barriers to access by persons with disabilities in certain public areas of our properties where such removal is readily achievable. We believe that our properties are in substantial compliance with the ADA and
that we will not be required to make substantial capital expenditures to address the requirements of the ADA. However, noncompliance with the ADA could result in imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants. The obligation to make
readily achievable accommodations is an ongoing one, and we will continue to assess our properties and to make alterations as appropriate in this respect.

Environmental Matters

Under various laws relating to the protection
of the environment, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be liable for contamination resulting from the presence or discharge of hazardous or toxic substances at that property, and may be required to investigate and clean up
such contamination at or emanating from that property. Such laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the contaminants, and the liability may be joint and several.
Previous owners used some of our properties for industrial and retail purposes, and those properties may contain some level of environmental contamination. Fuel storage tanks are present at many of our properties, and if releases were to occur, we
may be liable for the costs of cleaning any resulting contamination. The presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination at our properties may expose us to third-party liability or materially adversely affect our ability to sell,
lease or develop the real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral.

Some of the properties may contain
asbestos-containing building materials. Environmental laws require that asbestos-containing building materials be properly managed and maintained, and may impose fines and penalties on building owners or operators for failure to comply with these
requirements. These laws may also allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos-containing building materials.

In addition, some of our tenants, particularly those in the biotechnology and life sciences industry and those in the technology
manufacturing industry, routinely handle hazardous substances and wastes as part of their operations at our properties, including chemical solvents, medical waste, hydrocarbons, batteries and pesticides. Environmental laws and regulations subject
our tenants, and potentially us, to liability resulting from these activities or from previous industrial or retail uses of those properties. Environmental liabilities could also affect a tenant’s ability to make rental payments to us. We
require our tenants to comply with these environmental laws and regulations and to indemnify us for any related liabilities.

Independent environmental consultants have conducted Phase I or similar environmental site assessments on all of the properties in our
portfolio. Site assessments are intended to discover and evaluate information regarding the environmental condition of the surveyed property and surrounding properties. These assessments do not generally include soil samplings, subsurface
investigations or an asbestos survey. None of the recent site assessments revealed any past or present environmental liability that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, assets, results of operations or our competitive
position. However, the assessments may have failed to reveal all environmental conditions, liabilities or compliance concerns. Material environmental







conditions, liabilities or compliance concerns may have arisen after the review was completed or may arise in the future; and future laws, ordinances or regulations may impose material additional
environmental liability.

Our properties and their uses often require permits from various government agencies, including
permits related to zoning and land use, such as permits to operate data center facilities. Certain permits from state or local environmental regulatory agencies, including regulators of air quality, are usually required to install and operate
diesel-powered generators, which provide emergency back-up power at some of our facilities. These permits often set emissions limits for certain air pollutants, including oxides of nitrogen. In addition, various federal, state, and local
environmental, health and safety requirements, such as fire requirements and treated and storm water discharge requirements, apply to some of our properties. Changes to applicable regulations, such as air quality regulations, or the permit
requirements for equipment at our facilities, could hinder or prevent our construction or operation of data center facilities.

The environmental laws and regulations—including those directly regulating our climate change impacts and those which regulate the
climate change impacts of companies with which we do business, such as utilities which provide our facilities with electricity—to which our properties are subject may change in the future, and new laws and regulations may be created. See
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Factors Which May Influence Future Results of Operations—Climate change legislation.” We do not know if or how the requirements will
change, but changes may require that we make significant unanticipated expenditures, and such expenditures may materially adversely impact our financial condition, cash flow, results, cash available for distributions, common stock’s per share
trading price, our competitive position and ability to satisfy our debt service obligations.

Insurance

We currently carry comprehensive liability, property, business interruption, including loss of rental income, and other insurance policies
to cover insurable risks to our company. We select policy specifications, insured limits and deductibles which we believe to be appropriate and adequate given the relative risk of loss, the cost of the coverage and standard industry practices. Our
insurance policies contain industry standard exclusions and we do not carry insurance for generally uninsurable perils such as loss from war or nuclear reaction. We carry limited earthquake insurance on our properties in an amount and with
deductibles which we believe are commercially reasonable. Certain of the properties in our portfolio are located in areas known to be seismically active. See “Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our Business and Operations—Potential losses
may not be covered by insurance.”

Employees

As of December 31, 2012, we had 702 employees. None of these employees are represented by a labor union.

How to Obtain Our SEC Filings

All reports we file with the SEC will be
available free of charge via EDGAR through the SEC website at www.sec.gov. In addition, the public may read and copy materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s public reference room located at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. We
will also provide copies of our Forms 8-K, 10-K, 10-Q, Proxy Statement, Annual Report and amendments to those documents at no charge to investors upon request and make electronic copies of such reports available through our website at
www.digitalrealty.com as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material with the SEC. The information found on, or otherwise accessible through, our website is not incorporated by reference into, nor does it form a part of, this report or
any other document that we file with the SEC.







Offices

Our headquarters are located in San Francisco. We have domestic offices in Boston, Chicago, Dallas, Los Angeles, New York, Northern Virginia and Phoenix and international offices in Dublin, London, Paris,
Singapore and Sydney.

Reports to Security Holders

Digital Realty Trust, Inc. is required to send an annual report to its securityholders and to our operating partnership’s unitholders.



