ITEM 1.    BUSINESS

General



Digital Realty Trust, Inc. through its controlling interest in Digital Realty Trust, L.P. and its subsidiaries is a leading global provider of data center, colocation and interconnection solutions for customers across a variety of industry verticals ranging from cloud and information technology services, communications and social networking to financial services, manufacturing, energy, healthcare, and consumer products.  Digital Realty Trust, L.P., a Maryland limited partnership, is the entity through which Digital Realty Trust, Inc., a Maryland corporation, conducts its business of owning, acquiring, developing and operating data centers.  Digital Realty Trust, Inc. operates as a REIT for federal income tax purposes.



On September 14, 2017, we completed the acquisition of DuPont Fabros Technology, Inc., or DFT, in an all-stock merger, which we refer to as the DFT Merger, for equity consideration of approximately $6.2 billion. We believe this transaction expanded our reach with a complementary portfolio in top U.S. metropolitan areas while enhancing our ability to meet the growing demand for hyper-scale and public cloud solutions and solidifying our blue-chip customer base.



On July 5, 2016, we completed the acquisition of a portfolio of eight high-quality, carrier-neutral data centers in Europe, which we refer to as the European Portfolio Acquisition, for a total purchase price of $818.9 million (based on the exchange rate at the date of acquisition).  We believe the acquisition of these highly strategic assets in Amsterdam, Frankfurt and London enhanced our colocation and interconnection platform globally.



On October 9, 2015, we acquired Telx Holdings, Inc., or Telx, a leading U.S. provider of data center colocation, interconnection and cloud enablement solutions, which we refer to as the Telx Acquisition, for approximately $1.9 billion.  We believe this acquisition established us as a leading provider of colocation and interconnection solutions in the U.S., complementing our existing business.



As ofDecember 31, 2017, our portfolio consisted of205data centers, including seven held-for-sale data centers and18data centers held as investments in unconsolidated joint ventures, of which152are located throughout the United States,38are located in Europe,sevenare located in Asia,fiveare located in Australia andthreeare located in Canada.



We are diversified across 33 major metropolitan areas throughout 12 countries where data center and technology customers are concentrated, including the Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Dallas, Los Angeles, New York, Northern Virginia, Phoenix, San Francisco, Seattle and Silicon Valley metropolitan areas in the United States; the Amsterdam, Dublin, Frankfurt and London metropolitan areas in Europe; and the Hong Kong,  Melbourne, Osaka, Singapore, Sydney and Tokyo metropolitan areas in the Asia Pacific region.  Our portfolio contains a total of approximately

32.1 million

square feet, including approximately

2.7 million

square feet of space under active development, which includes current base building and data center projects in progress, as well as approximately

1.7 million

square feet of space held for future development, which includes space held for future data center development and excludes space under active development.  The


data centers held as investments in unconsolidated joint ventures have an aggregate of approximately

2.2 million

rentable square feet.  The


parcels of developable land we own comprise approximately


acres.  A significant component of our current and future growth is expected to be generated through the development of our existing space held for development and acquisition of new properties.  As of December 31, 2017, our portfolio, including the


data centers held as investments in unconsolidated joint ventures and excluding space under active development and space held for future development, was approximately

90.2%

leased.



Our portfolio is comprised of data centers, which provide secure, continuously available environments for the exchange, processing and storage of critical electronic information.  Data centers are used for digital communication, disaster recovery purposes, transaction processing and housing mission-critical corporate IT applications.  Certain of our data centers, which we refer to as Internet gateways, are highly interconnected, network-dense facilities that serve as hubs for Internet and data communications within and between major metropolitan areas.  We believe Internet gateways are highly valuable and would be extremely difficult to replicate.












Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements









The locations of and improvements to our data centers, the network density, interconnection infrastructure and connectivity-centric customers in certain of our facilities, and our comprehensive product offerings are critical to our customers’ businesses, which we believe results in high occupancy levels, longer average lease terms and customer relationships, as well as lower turnover.  In addition, many of our data centers contain significant improvements that have been installed at our customers’ expense.  The tenant improvements in our data centers are generally readily adaptable for use by similar customers.



Digital Realty Trust, Inc. was incorporated in the state of Maryland on March 9, 2004. Digital Realty Trust, L.P. was organized in the state of Maryland on July 21, 2004.  Our principal executive offices are located at Four Embarcadero Center, Suite 3200, San Francisco, California 94111.  Our telephone number at that location is (415) 738-6500.  Our website is located at www.digitalrealty.com.  The information found on, or otherwise accessible through, our website is not incorporated into, and does not form a part of, this annual report or any other report or document we file with or furnish to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC.





Our Competitive Strengths



We believe we distinguish ourselves from other owners, acquirers, developers and operators of data centers through our competitive strengths, which include:



•Global Platform.We believe that a high-quality, highly interconnected global portfolio such as ours could not be easily replicated today on a cost-competitive basis.



•Presence in Key Metropolitan Areas.Our portfolio comprises a network of 205 state-of-the-art, interconnected data centers, which are concentrated in 33 major metropolitan areas across 12 countries on four continents.  Our portfolio is geographically diversified, so that no single metropolitan area represented more than approximately21.6%of the aggregate annualized rent of our portfolio as of December 31, 2017.  Through strategic investments, we have grown our presence in key metropolitan areas throughout North American, Europe, Asia and Australia.  The DFT Merger in 2017 enhanced our data center offerings in strategic and complementary U.S. metropolitan areas.  The Telx Acquisition in 2015 established our colocation and interconnection platform in the U.S. and the European Portfolio Acquisition in 2016 expanded our colocation and interconnection platform in Europe, each transaction enhancing our presence in top-tier locations throughout the U.S. and Europe.



•Secure and Network-Rich Data Centers.Our data centers are physically secure, network-rich and equipped to meet the power and cooling requirements of smaller footprints up to the most demanding IT applications.  Many of our data centers are located on major aggregation points formed by the physical presence of multiple major telecommunications service providers, which reduces our customers’ costs and operational risks and enhances the attractiveness of our properties.  In addition, our strategically located global data center campuses offer our customers the ability to expand their global footprint as their businesses grow, while our connectivity offerings on our campuses enhance the capabilities and attractiveness of these facilities.  Further, the network density, interconnection infrastructure and connectivity-centric customers in certain of our data centers has led to the organic formation of densely interconnected ecosystems that are difficult for others to replicate and deliver added value to our customers.



•Comprehensive Product Offering.We provide flexible, customer-centric data center solutions designed to meet the needs of companies of all sizes across multiple industry verticals around the world.  Our data centers and comprehensive suite of product offerings are scalable to meet our customers’ needs, from a single rack or cabinet, up to multi-megawatt deployments, along with connectivity, interconnection and solutions to support their hybrid cloud architecture requirements.



•Colocation, Scale and Hyper-Scale Platform.Our colocation and Turn-Key Flex®data centers are move-in ready, physically secure facilities with the power and cooling capabilities to support customers requiring a single rack or cabinet up to mission-critical IT enterprise applications.  We believe our colocation and Turn-Key Flex®facilities are effective solutions for customers who may lack the bandwidth, capital budget,






Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



expertise or desire to provide their own extensive data center infrastructure, management and security.  For customers who possess the ability to build and operate their own facility, our Powered Base Building®solution provides the physical location, requisite power and network access necessary to support a state-of-the-art data center.  Our data center campuses offer our customers the opportunity to expand in or near their existing deployments within our data center campuses.  Our Critical Facilities Management®services and team of technical engineers and data center operations experts provide 24/7 support for these mission-critical facilities.



•Interconnection and Cloud-Enablement Platform.Through our recent investments and strategic partnerships, we have significantly expanded our capabilities as a leading provider of interconnection and cloud-enablement services globally.  We believe interconnection is an attractive line of business that would be difficult to build organically and enhances the overall value proposition of our colocation, scale and hyper-scale data center product offerings.  Furthermore, through new product offerings, such as our Service Exchange, and partnerships with cloud service providers, we are able to support our customers’ hybrid cloud architecture requirements.  Over the past few years, we have expanded our product mix to appeal to a broader spectrum of data center customers, especially those seeking to support a greater portion of their data center requirements through a single provider.



•Global and Diverse Customer Base.Our portfolio has attracted a high-quality, diversified mix of customers.  We have more than 2,300 customers in total, and no single customer represented more than approximately6.5%of the aggregate annualized rent of our portfolio as of December 31, 2017.



•Global Customer Base across a Wide Variety of Industry Sectors.We use our in-depth knowledge of requirements for and trends impacting cloud and information technology service providers, content providers, network and communications providers, and other data center users, including enterprise customers, to market our data centers to meet these customers’ specific technology needs.  At December 31, 2017, our customers represented a variety of industry verticals, ranging from cloud and information technology services, communications and social networking to financial services, manufacturing, energy, gaming, life sciences and consumer products.  Our customers are increasingly launching multi-regional deployments and growing with us internationally.  Our largest customer, IBM, accounted for approximately6.5%of the aggregate annualized rent as of December 31, 2017 and no other single customer accounted for more than approximately6.2%of the aggregate annualized rent of our portfolio.



•Proven Experience Attracting and Retaining Customers.Our specialized data center salesforce, which is aligned to meet our customers’ needs for global, enterprise and network solutions, provides a robust pipeline of new customers, while existing customers continue to grow and expand their utilization of our services to support a greater portion of their IT needs.  During the year ended December 31, 2017, we commenced new leases totaling approximately1.2 millionsquare feet, which represent approximately$184.1 millionin annualized GAAP rent, and renewal leases totaling approximately2.1 millionsquare feet, which represent approximately$241.3 millionin annualized GAAP rent. During the year ended December 31, 2017, we signed new leases totaling approximately1.1 millionsquare feet, which represent approximately$168.5 millionin annualized GAAP rent, and renewal leases totaling approximately2.0 millionsquare feet, which represent approximately$234.2 millionin annualized GAAP rent.  During the year ended December 31, 2017, we signed new leases with existing customers totaling approximately1.0 millionsquare feet, which represent approximately$152.6 millionin annualized GAAP rent.



•Demonstrated Investment Acumen.We have developed detailed, standardized procedures for evaluating acquisitions and investments, including income-producing properties as well as vacant buildings and land suitable for development, to ensure that they meet our strategic, financial, technical and other criteria.  These procedures, together with our in-depth knowledge of the technology, data center and real estate industries, allow us to identify strategically located properties and evaluate investment opportunities efficiently and, as appropriate, commit and close quickly.  Our investment-grade ratings, along with our broad network of contacts within the data center industry, enable us to effectively capitalize on acquisition and investment opportunities.








Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



•Differentiating Development Advantages.Our extensive development activity, operating scale and process-based approach to data center design, construction and operations result in significant cost savings and added value for our customers.  We have leveraged our purchasing power by securing global purchasing agreements and developing relationships with major equipment manufacturers, reducing costs and shortening delivery timeframes on key components, including major mechanical and electrical equipment.  Utilizing our innovative modular data center design, we deliver what we believe to be a technically superior data center environment at significant cost savings.  In addition, by utilizing our POD Architecture® to develop new Turn-Key Flex®facilities in our existing Powered Base Building®facilities, on average we can deliver a fully commissioned facility in under 30 weeks.  Finally, our access to capital and investment-grade ratings allow us to provide data center solutions for customers who do not want to invest their own capital.



•Experienced and Committed Management Team and Organization.Our senior management team has many years of experience in the technology and/or real estate industries, including experience as investors in and advisors to technology companies.  We believe that our senior management team’s extensive knowledge of both the technology and the real estate industries provides us with a key competitive advantage.  Further, a significant portion of compensation for our senior management team and directors is in the form of common equity interests in our Company. We also maintain minimum stock ownership requirements for our senior management team and directors, further aligning their interests with those of external stockholders, as well as an employee stock purchase plan, which encourages our employees to increase their ownership in the Company.



Business and Growth Strategies



Our primary business objectives are to maximize: (i) sustainable long-term growth in earnings and funds from operations per share and unit, (ii) cash flow and returns to our stockholders and our Operating Partnership’s unitholders through the payment of distributions and (iii) return on invested capital, which we expect to accomplish by achieving superior risk-adjusted returns, prudently allocating capital, diversifying our product offerings and driving revenue growth and operating efficiencies.



•Achieve Superior Returns.We believe that achieving appropriate risk-adjusted returns on our business, including on our development pipeline and leasing transactions, will deliver superior stockholder returns. At December 31, 2017, we had approximately2.7 millionsquare feet of space under active development for Turn-Key Flex®and Powered Base Building®products insevenU.S. metropolitan areas,fourEuropean metropolitan areas,twoAustralian metropolitan areas,oneCanadian metropolitan area andoneAsian metropolitan area, consisting of approximately1.3 millionsquare feet of base building construction and1.4 millionsquare feet of data center construction. We may continue to build out our development pipeline when justified by anticipated returns. We also believe that providing an even stronger value proposition to our customers, including through new and more comprehensive product offerings, as well as continuing to improve operational efficiencies, will further drive improved returns for our business.



•Prudently Allocate Capital.We believe that the accretive deployment of capital at sufficiently positive spreads above our cost of capital enables us to increase cash flow and create long-term stockholder value.



•Strategic and Complementary Investments.We have developed significant expertise at underwriting, financing and executing data center investment opportunities.  We employ a collaborative approach to deal analysis, risk management and asset allocation, focusing on key elements, such as market fundamentals, accessibility to fiber and power, and the local regulatory environment.  In addition, the specialized nature of data centers makes these investment opportunities more difficult for traditional real estate investors to underwrite, resulting in reduced competition for investments relative to other property types.  We believe this dynamic creates an opportunity for us to generate attractive risk-adjusted returns on our capital.



•Preserve the Flexibility of Our Balance Sheet.We are committed to maintaining a conservative capital structure.  We target a debt-to-adjusted EBITDA ratio at or less than 5.5x, fixed charge coverage of greater than three times, and floating rate debt at less than 20% of total outstanding debt.  In addition, we strive to maintain a well-laddered debt maturity schedule, and we seek to maximize the menu of our available sources of capital, while minimizing the related cost.  Since Digital Realty Trust Inc.’s initial public offering in 2004, we have raised approximately$27.3 billionof capital through common, preferred and convertible preferred equity offerings, exchangeable debt offerings, non-exchangeable bond offerings, our global revolving credit facility, our term loan facility, a senior notes shelf facility, secured mortgage financings and re-financings,






Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



joint venture partnerships and the sale of non-core assets.  We endeavor to maintain financial flexibility while using our liquidity and access to capital to support operations, including our acquisition, investment, leasing and development programs and global campus expansion, which are important sources of our growth.



•Offer Comprehensive and Diverse Products.We have diversified our product offering, through acquisitions and organically, and believe that we have one of the most comprehensive suites of global data center solutions available to customers from a single provider.



•Global Service Infrastructure Platform.With the recent DFT Merger, which enhanced our portfolio of scale and hyper-scale data centers, the European Portfolio Acquisition and the Telx Acquisition, which established us as a leading provider of colocation, interconnection and cloud-enablement services globally, we are able to offer a broader range of data center solutions to meet our customers’ needs, from a single rack or cabinet to multi-megawatt deployments.  We believe our products like Service Exchange and our partnerships with managed services and cloud service providers further enhance the attractiveness of our data centers.



•Provide Foundational Services to Enable Customers and Partners.We believe that the real estate platform, through which we offer the foundational services of space, power and connectivity, will enable our customers and partners to serve their customers and grow their businesses. We believe our Internet gateway data centers, individual data centers and data center campuses are attractive to a wide variety of customers and partners of all sizes. Furthermore, we believe our colocation and interconnection offerings, as well as the densely connected ecosystems that have developed within our facilities, and the availability and scalability of our comprehensive suite of products are valuable and critical to our customers and partners.



•Drive Revenue Growth and Operating Efficiencies.We aggressively manage our properties to maximize cash flow and control costs by leveraging our scale to drive operating efficiencies.



•Leverage Strong Industry Relationships.We use our strong industry relationships with national and regional corporate enterprise information technology groups and technology-intensive companies to identify and solve their data center needs.  Our sales professionals are technology and real estate industry specialists who can develop complex facility solutions for the most demanding data center and other technology customers.



•Maximize Cash Flow.We often acquire properties with substantial in-place cash flow and some vacancy, which enables us to create upside through lease-up.  We control our costs by negotiating expense pass-through provisions in customer agreements for operating expenses, including power costs and certain capital expenditure.  We have also focused on centralizing functions and optimizing operations as well as improving processes and technologies.  We believe that expanding our global data center campuses will also contribute to operating efficiencies because we expect to achieve economies of scale on our campus environments.





Sustainability



We believe that addressing sustainability by driving environmental efficiency through the implementation of cost-effective design and use of renewable energy serves as a key differentiator enabling us to deliver products that help attract and retain customers, generate cash flow, and manage operational risks.  Our sustainability platform includes the following:



•We manage our data centers so that they offer high degrees of operational efficiencies for our customers.  We benchmark and certify certain data centers in accordance with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, Energy Star program, LEEDTM, BREEAM, as well as other recognized third-party rating standards.  A portion of our U.S. portfolio is enrolled in the U.S. Department of Energy’s Better Buildings Challenge for Data Centers.

•We have developed solutions to help our customers efficiently utilize energy and water, and to help them procure renewable energy.



In 2017, we received Nareit’s “Leader in the Light” award for data centers, recognizing our sustainability and energy-efficiency achievements, and we ranked 6thon the EPA’s Top 30 Tech and Telecom list of the largest green power users.








Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



Energy and resource management considerations are integrated into our business decisions. For the operating portfolio, annual capital expense investment planning identifies and evaluates resource efficiency project opportunities in a parallel but distinct process from non-resource-impacting capital investments. For acquisitions and new development activity, resiliency risks, resource availability, and renewable energy access are considered. Our design and construction process incorporates sustainable features that support resource efficiency during both construction as well as during eventual operational activity at the sites. We consider water availability, cost, and alternate supply solutions to potable water such as municipally supplied reclaimed water. We also consider cooling system designs to maximize ‘free cooling’ and reduce or eliminate the site’s reliance on access to water for cooling.



Sustainable Data Center Ratings



Data centers receiving third-party sustainable ratings in 2017 totaled 830,729 square feet, or approximately 62% of our total shell completions in 2017. We received the following sustainable data center ratings for all, or a portion of, the following sites:



Data CenterMetropolitan AreaRating FrameworkLevel Attained9377 W Grand AvenueChicagoLEED(1)Silver2299 Busse RoadChicagoLEED(1)(2)Silver21745 Sir Timothy DriveNorthern VirginiaLEED(1)(3)Gold

(1)LEEDTM: Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design.

(2)Received by DFT in February 2017.

(3)Received by DFT in August 2017.



In 2017, we achieved Energy Star for Data Centers recognition for all, or a portion of, the following sites, representing 16.9% of our U.S. operating portfolio(1):



Data CenterMetropolitan Area375 Riverside ParkwayAtlanta950 E Collins BoulevardDallas2260 E El Segundo BoulevardLos Angeles1201 Comstock StreetSanta Clara1525 Comstock StreetSanta Clara1725 Comstock StreetSanta Clara2805 Lafayette StreetSanta Clara3105 Alfred StreetSanta Clara4040 Lafayette Center DriveNorthern Virginia4050 Lafayette Center DriveNorthern Virginia44060 Digital Loudoun PlazaNorthern Virginia



(1)Percentage is based on U.S. stabilized assets, excluding Powered Base Building space, space under active development, space held for development, and space held in unconsolidated joint ventures.



Resource Conservation



We seek to proactively identify and support opportunities to efficiently utilize resources, such as energy and water, throughout our operating portfolio. In 2017, the following sites completed conservation projects primarily focusing on energy and water conservation:








Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



PropertyMetropolitan Area100 DelawannaNew York111 8th AvenueNew York120 E. Van Buren StreetPhoenix128 First AvenueBoston200 Paul AvenueSan Francisco2121 S. Price RoadPhoenix2323 Bryan StreetDallas250 Williams StreetAtlanta2501 S. State HighwayDallas350 E. Cermak RoadChicago56 MariettaAtlanta60 Hudson StreetNew York



In 2017, we verified attainment of our energy intensity target under the U.S. Department of Energy’s Better Buildings Challenge, an initiative to reduce non-IT energy intensity 20% by 2024 across a 0.79 million square foot portion of our portfolio compared to a 2013 baseline. Energy savings have been achieved by implementing HVAC upgrades, including variable frequency drive implementations, containment deployments and controls optimizations. Other energy savings initiatives include air management improvements and modifications to our SLAs with customers to allow for enhanced economizer operation. Our properties enrolled in the Better Buildings Challenge demonstrated cumulative reductions in non-IT energy intensity of 25% compared to a 2013 baseline, as reviewed via the U.S. Department of Energy’s Better Buildings Challenge.



Renewable Energy



In 2017, we entered into power purchase agreements to secure the renewable energy attributes from a wind farm in Illinois and a solar farm in North Carolina. Our previously disclosed Texas wind farm power purchase agreement produced 365,184 MWh of renewable energy credits in 2017.



SASB



The Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (“SASB”) issued the Real Estate Owners, Developers & Investment Trusts Sustainability Accounting Standard guidance, which outlines proposed disclosure topics and accounting metrics for the real estate industry. We provide data on energy and water management metrics that best correlate with our business and industry as indicated in the following sections. The energy and water data we use is primarily collected and reviewed by third parties who compile the data from property utility statements. These metrics enable us to better manage our portfolio, track our progress on resource efficiency improvements, and track renewable energy sourcing.



Energy Data

Year(1)Energy Consumption Data Coverage as % of Floor AreaTotal Energy Consumed by Portfolio Area with Data Coverage (MWh)(2)Grid electricity consumption as a % of Energy Consumption% of Energy Generated From Renewable Resources(3)Like-for-Like Change in Energy Consumption of Portfolio Area with Data Coverage(4)MWh per Occupied kW(5)MWh per Occupied kWYear over Year% Change201684%3,699,47295%23.4%2.5%6.50(5.8)%201577%3,252,83695%9.5%n/a6.90n/a



(1)Full-year 2017 energy data is not currently available. The most recent full year for which energy data is available is 2016.






Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



(2)The scope of energy includes: energy purchased from sources external to the Company and its customers; energy produced by the Company and its customers (i.e., self-generated); and energy from all other sources, including direct fuel usage, purchased electricity, and purchased chilled water.

(3)Excludes renewable energy supplied by standard baseline utility fuel mix. Includes above-baseline utility renewables (e.g., green tariffs), Renewable Energy Credit (REC) purchases and RECs generated by the Company.

(4)Data reported in MWh on a like-for-like comparison excludes properties which were acquired, disposed, under development or have been largely refurbished during the reported year.

(5)We provide a “MWh per occupied kW” metric to assess relative resource use intensity. Excludes kW associated with Powered Base Building space.



Water Data

Year(1)Water Consumption Data Coverage as % of Floor AreaTotal Water Consumed by Portfolio Area with Data Coverage (kGal)(2)Like-for-Like Change in Water Consumption of Portfolio Area with Data Coverage(3)kGal per Occupied kW(4)Gal per Occupied kWYear over Year% Change201664%459,127(2.0)%0.81(5.8)%201560%403,373n/a0.86n/a



(1)Full-year 2017 water data is not currently available. The most recent full year for which water data is available is 2016.

(2)Data reported in kilo-gallons (kGal). The scope of water consumed includes potable and non-potable water purchased from third-party suppliers.

(3)The like-for-like comparison excludes properties which were acquired, disposed, under development or largely refurbished during the reported year.

(4)We provide a “kGal per occupied kW” metric to assess relative resource use intensity. Excludes kGal associated with Powered Base Building space.

Competition



Geographic Information

Operating revenues from properties in the United States were$1.9 billion,$1.7 billionand$1.4 billionand outside the United States were$0.5 billion,$0.4 billionand$0.4 billionfor the years endedDecember 31, 2017,2016and2015, respectively. We had investments in real estate located in the United States of$10.5 billion,$6.3 billionand$6.1 billionand outside the United States of$3.1 billion,$2.6 billionand$2.6 billionas ofDecember 31, 2017,2016and2015, respectively.

Operating revenues from properties located in the United Kingdom were$0.3 billion,$0.2 billionand$0.2 billion, or11.2%,11.1%and12.3%of total operating revenues, for the years endedDecember 31, 2017,2016and2015, respectively. No other foreign country comprised more than 10% of total operating revenues for each of these years. We had investments in real estate located in the United Kingdom of$1.7 billion,$1.5 billionand$1.6 billion, or12.1%,16.6%and18.8%of total






Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



investments in real estate, as ofDecember 31, 2017,2016and2015, respectively. No other foreign country comprised more than 10% of total investments in real estate as of each ofDecember 31, 2017,2016and2015. See “Risk Factors—Ownership of data centers located outside of the United States subjects us to foreign currency and related risks which may adversely impact our ability to make distributions”, “—Our international activities are subject to unique risks different than those faced by us in the United States and we may not be able to effectively manage our international business” and “—We face risks with our international acquisitions associated with investing in unfamiliar metropolitan areas” for risks relating to our international operations.

Regulation

General

Our properties are subject to various laws, ordinances and regulations, including regulations relating to common areas. We believe that each of our properties as ofDecember 31, 2017has the necessary permits and approvals to operate.

Americans with Disabilities Act

Our properties must comply with Title III of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or the ADA, to the extent that such properties are “public accommodations” as defined by the ADA. The ADA may require removal of structural barriers to access by persons with disabilities in certain public areas of our properties where such removal is readily achievable. We believe that our properties are in substantial compliance with the ADA and that we will not be required to make substantial capital expenditures to address the requirements of the ADA. However, noncompliance with the ADA could result in imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants. The obligation to make readily achievable accommodations is an ongoing one, and we will continue to assess our properties and to make alterations as appropriate in this respect.

Environmental Matters






Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements





In addition, some of our customers, particularly those in the biotechnology and life sciences industry and those in the technology manufacturing industry, routinely handle hazardous substances and wastes as part of their operations at our properties. Environmental laws and regulations subject our customers, and potentially us, to liability resulting from these activities or from previous industrial or retail uses of those properties. We could be held jointly and severally liable under CERCLA and various state, local and national laws for the investigation and remediation of hazardous substances released by our customers on our properties. Environmental liabilities could also affect a customer’s ability to make rental payments to us. We cannot assure you that costs of investigation and remediation of environmental matters will not affect our ability to pay dividends to Digital Realty Trust, Inc.’s stockholders and distributions to Digital Realty Trust, L.P.’s unitholders or that such costs or other remedial measures will not have a material adverse effect on our business, assets or results of operations or our competitive position.



Our properties and their uses often require permits from various government agencies, including permits related to zoning and land use. Certain permits from environmental regulatory agencies, including regulators of air quality, are usually required to install and operate diesel-powered generators, which provide emergency back-up power at most of our facilities. These permits often set emissions limits for certain air pollutants, including oxides of nitrogen. In addition, various federal, state, and local environmental, health and safety requirements, such as fire requirements and treated and storm water discharge requirements, apply to some of our properties. Changes to applicable regulations, such as air quality regulations, or the permit requirements for equipment at our facilities, could hinder or prevent our construction or operation of data center facilities.



The environmental laws and regulations to which our properties are subject may change in the future, and new laws and regulations may be created. Future laws, ordinances or regulations may impose additional material environmental liability. Such laws include those directly regulating our climate change impacts and those which regulate the climate change impacts of companies with which we do business, such as utilities providing our facilities with electricity. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Factors Which May Influence Future Results of Operations—Climate change legislation.” We do not know if or how the requirements will change, but changes may require that we make significant unanticipated expenditures, and such expenditures may materially adversely impact our financial condition, cash flow, results of operations, cash available for distributions, common stock’s per share trading price, competitive position and ability to satisfy our debt service obligations.

Insurance

We carry commercial general liability, property, and business interruption insurance, including rental income loss coverage, covering all of the properties in our portfolio under a blanket program. We select policy specifications and insured limits which we believe to be appropriate given the relative risk of loss, the cost of the coverage and industry practice and, in the opinion of our Company’s management, the properties in our portfolio are currently adequately insured. We do not carry insurance for generally uninsured exposures such as loss from war or nuclear reaction. In addition, we carry earthquake insurance on our properties in an amount and with deductibles which we believe are commercially reasonable. We intend to partially fund the earthquake insurance deductibles through a captive insurance company we established in May 2014. Certain of the properties in our portfolio are located in areas known to be seismically active.  See “Risk Factors-Risks Related to Our Business and Operations-Potential losses may not be covered by insurance.”

Employees

As ofDecember 31, 2017, we had 1,436 employees.

How to Obtain Our SEC Filings

All reports we file with the SEC are available free of charge via EDGAR through the SEC website at www.sec.gov. In addition, the public may read and copy materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s public reference room located at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. We will also provide copies of our Forms 8-K, 10-K, 10-Q, Proxy Statement and amendments to those documents at no charge to investors upon request and make electronic copies of such reports available through our website at www.digitalrealty.com as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material with the SEC. The information found on, or otherwise accessible through, our website is not incorporated by reference into, nor does it form a part of, this report or any other document that we file with the SEC.

Offices








Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



Our headquarters are located in San Francisco. We have regional U.S. offices in Boston, Chicago, Dallas, Los Angeles, New York, Northern Virginia and Phoenix and regional international offices in Amsterdam, Dublin, London, Singapore, Sydney and Hong Kong.

Reports to Security Holders

Digital Realty Trust, Inc. is required to send an annual report to its securityholders and to our Operating Partnership’s unitholders.








Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements





