ITEM 1.BUSINESS

General

As used herein, the terms “we,” “our,” “us,” “the company” and “our company” refer to
Digital Realty Trust, Inc., a Maryland corporation, together with our consolidated subsidiaries, including Digital Realty Trust, L.P., a Maryland limited partnership of which we are the sole general partner and which we refer to as our operating
partnership. We target high-quality, strategically located properties containing applications and operations critical to the day-to-day operations of technology industry tenants and corporate enterprise datacenter users, including the information
technology, or IT, departments of Fortune 100 and financial services companies. Our tenant base is diversified within the technology industry and reflects a broad spectrum of regional, national and international tenants that are leaders in their
respective areas. We operate as a real estate investment trust, or REIT, for federal income tax purposes.

Through our
operating partnership, at December 31, 2009 we owned 81 properties, excluding one property held as an investment in an unconsolidated joint venture. Our properties are primarily located throughout North America with 13 properties in Europe. Our
properties contain a total of approximately 14.4 million net rentable square feet, including approximately 1.8 million square feet held for redevelopment. A significant component of our current and future internal growth is anticipated
through the development of our existing space held for redevelopment and through acquisitions of new properties. Our operations and acquisition activities are focused on a limited number of markets where technology industry tenants and corporate
datacenter users are concentrated, including the Chicago, Dallas, Los Angeles, New York/New Jersey, Northern Virginia, Phoenix, San Francisco and Silicon Valley metropolitan areas in the U.S. and the London, Dublin, Paris and Amsterdam markets in
Europe. As of December 31, 2009, our portfolio, excluding space held for redevelopment, was approximately 95.0% leased at an average annualized rent per leased square foot of $41.82. The types of properties within our focus include:



•Internet gateway datacenters, which serve as hubs for Internet and data communications within and between major metropolitan areas;



•Corporate datacenters, which provide secure, continuously available environments for the storage and processing of critical electronic information.
Data centers are used for disaster recovery purposes, transaction processing and to house corporate IT operations;



•Technology manufacturing properties, which contain highly specialized manufacturing environments for such purposes as disk drive manufacturing,
semiconductor manufacturing and specialty pharmaceutical manufacturing; and



•Regional or national offices of technology companies that are located in our target markets.

Unlike traditional office and flex/research and development space, the location of and improvements to our facilities are generally
essential to our tenants’ businesses, which we believe results in high occupancy levels, long lease terms and low tenant turnover. In addition, many of our properties have tenant improvements that have been installed at our tenants’
expense. The tenant improvements in our facilities are generally readily adaptable for use by similar tenants. We also had approximately 1.8 million square feet available for redevelopment at December 31, 2009.

We were incorporated in the state of Maryland on March 9, 2004. Our principal executive offices are located at 560 Mission Street,
Suite 2900, San Francisco, California 94105. Our telephone number at that location is (415) 738-6500. Our website is located at www.digitalrealtytrust.com. The information found on, or otherwise accessible through, our website is not
incorporated into, and does not form a part of, this annual report on Form 10-K or any other report or document we file with or furnish to the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, or the Securities and Exchange Commission.







Recent Developments

On October 30, 2009, we acquired two fully leased datacenter facilities, 1350 Duane Avenue and 3080 Raymond Street; the adjacent buildings are located in Santa Clara, California. The buildings
total approximately 185,000 square feet. The purchase price of approximately $90.5 million includes the assumption of a $52.8 million loan. The acquisition was financed with borrowings under our revolving credit facility.

On December 17, 2009, we acquired a two-property datacenter portfolio consisting of four buildings located at 21561 and 21571 Beaumeade
Circle in Ashburn, Virginia and 45901 and 45905 Nokes Boulevard in Sterling, Virginia, as well as certain vacant land located at 21551 Beaumeade Circle in Ashburn, Virginia, which we refer to collectively as the Beaumeade/Nokes Property, for a
purchase price of approximately $63.3 million. The Beaumeade/Nokes Property totals approximately 332,000 square feet with the vacant land capable of supporting up to 140,000 square feet of new datacenter development. The acquisition was financed
with borrowings under our revolving credit facility.

On January 20, 2010, we closed the sale of $100.0 million
aggregate principal amount of our senior unsecured term notes under our Note Purchase and Private Shelf Agreement dated July 24, 2008, or the Prudential shelf facility. The notes were issued in two series referred to as the series D and series
E notes. The series D notes have a principal amount of $50.0 million, an interest-only rate of 4.57% per annum and a five-year maturity, and the series E notes have a principal amount of $50.0 million, an interest-only rate of 5.73% per
annum and a seven-year maturity. We used the proceeds of the series D and series E notes to fund acquisitions, to temporarily repay borrowings under our revolving credit facility and for working capital. The series D and series E notes are subject
to the covenants set forth in the Prudential shelf facility.

On January 22, 2010, we completed the acquisition of a
three-property datacenter portfolio located in Massachusetts and Connecticut, which we refer to as the New England Portfolio. The purchase price was approximately $375.0 million and was funded with borrowings under our revolving credit facility. The
New England Portfolio comprises a total of approximately 550,000 square feet.

On January 28, 2010, our operating
partnership closed the issuance of $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of 5.875% notes due 2020. The purchase price paid by the initial purchasers was 98.296% of the principal amount thereof. The notes are general unsecured senior obligations
of our operating partnership, rank equally in right of payment with all other senior unsecured indebtedness of our operating partnership and are







fully and unconditionally guaranteed by us. Interest on the notes is payable on February 1 and August 1 of each year, beginning on August 1, 2010. The net proceeds from the
offering after deducting the original issue discount, underwriting commissions and estimated expenses was approximately $487.6 million. We used the net proceeds from the offering to temporarily repay borrowings under our revolving credit facility,
fund development and redevelopment opportunities and for general corporate purposes.

On February 3, 2010, we closed the
sale of $17.0 million aggregate principal amount of our senior unsecured term notes, which we refer to as the series F notes, under the Prudential shelf facility. The series F notes have an interest-only rate of 4.50% per annum and a
five-year maturity. We used the proceeds of the series F to fund acquisitions, to temporarily repay borrowings under our revolving credit facility and fund development and redevelopment opportunities for working capital. The series F notes are
subject to the covenants set forth in the Prudential shelf facility.

On February 23, 2010, we declared the following dividend
per share. The Operating Partnership will make an equivalent distribution per unit.



Share ClassSeries APreferred StockSeries BPreferred StockSeries CPreferred StockSeries DPreferred StockCommon stockand common unitDividend and distribution amount$0.531250$0.492188$0.273438$0.343750$0.480000Dividend and distribution payable dateMarch 31, 2010March 31, 2010March 31, 2010March 31, 2010March 31, 2010Dividend payable to shareholders of record onMarch 16, 2010March 16, 2010March 16, 2010March 16, 2010March 16, 2010Annual equivalent rate of dividend and distribution$2.125$1.969$1.094$1.375$1.920

On February 23,
2010, our board of directors approved an amendment to our charter increasing the number of authorized shares of our common stock, par value $.01 per share, available for issuance from 125,000,000 to 145,000,000. No changes were made to the number of
authorized shares of our preferred stock, par value $.01 per share, available for issuance (currently 30,000,000). We filed the amendment with the Maryland State Department of Assessments and Taxation on February 26, 2010.

Our Competitive Strengths

We believe we distinguish ourselves from other owners, acquirors and managers of technology-related real estate through our competitive strengths, which include:



•High-Quality Portfolio that is Difficult to Replicate.Our portfolio contains state-of-the-art data center facilities with extensive tenant
improvements. Based on current market rents and the estimated replacement costs of our properties and their improvements, we believe that they could not be replicated today on a cost-competitive basis. Our portfolio of corporate and Internet gateway
data center facilities is equipped to meet the power and cooling requirements for the most demanding corporate IT applications. Many of the properties in our portfolio are located on major aggregation points formed by the physical presence of
multiple major telecommunications service providers, which reduces our tenants’ costs and operational risks and increases the attractiveness of our buildings.



•Presence in Key Markets.Our portfolio is located in 27 metropolitan areas, including the Chicago, Dallas, Los Angeles, New York/New Jersey,
Northern Virginia, Phoenix, San Francisco and Silicon Valley metropolitan areas in the U.S. and the Amsterdam, Dublin, London and Paris markets in Europe, and is diversified so that no one market represented more than 17.9% of the aggregate
annualized rent of our portfolio as of December 31, 2009.







•Proven Ability To Sign New Leases.We have considerable experience in identifying and leasing to new tenants. The combination of our specialized
data center leasing team and customer referrals continues to provide a robust pipeline of new tenants. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we commenced new leases totaling approximately 757,000 square feet, which represent approximately
$80.1 million in annualized GAAP rent. These leases were comprised of Powered Base Building®, Turn-Key
Datacenters®, and ancillary office and other uses.



•Demonstrated Acquisition Capability.As of December 31, 2009, our portfolio consisted of 81 technology-related real estate properties,
excluding one property held through an investment in an unconsolidated joint venture, that we or our predecessor acquired beginning in 2002, for an aggregate of 14.4 million net rentable square feet, including approximately 1.8 million
square feet held for redevelopment. We have developed detailed, standardized procedures for evaluating acquisitions, including income producing assets and vacant properties suitable for redevelopment, to ensure that they meet our financial,
technical and other criteria. These procedures and our in-depth knowledge of the technology and data center industries allow us to identify strategically located properties and evaluate investment opportunities efficiently and, as appropriate,
commit and close quickly. Our broad network of contacts within a highly fragmented universe of sellers and brokers of technology-related real estate enables us to capitalize on acquisition opportunities. As a result, we acquired more than half of
our properties before they were broadly marketed by real estate brokers.



•Flexible Datacenter Solutions.We provide flexible, customer oriented solutions designed to meet the needs of technology and corporate data
center users, including Turn-Key Datacenter®, Powered Base Building®and build-to-suit options. Our Turn-Key Datacenters®are move-in ready, physically secure facilities with the power and cooling capabilities to support mission-critical IT enterprise applications. We believe our
Turn-Key Datacenters®are effective solutions for tenants that lack the expertise, capital budget or desire to
provide their own extensive data center infrastructure, management and security. For tenants that possess the ability to build and operate their own facility, our Powered Base Building®solution provides the physical location, required power and network access necessary to support a state-of-the-art data center. Our in-house engineering and design
and construction professionals can also provide tenants with customized build-to-suit solutions to meet their unique specifications. Our Critical Facilities Management®services and team of technical engineers and data center operations experts provide 24/7 support for these mission-critical facilities.



•Differentiating Development Advantages.Our extensive development activity, operating scale and process-based approach to data center design,
construction and operations result in significant cost savings and added value for our tenants. We have leveraged our purchasing power by securing global purchasing agreements and developing relationships with major equipment manufacturers, reducing
costs and shortening delivery timeframes on key components, including major mechanical and electrical equipment. Utilizing our innovative modular data center design referred to as POD Architecture®, we deliver what we believe to be a technically superior data center environment at significant cost savings. In addition, by utilizing our POD
Architecture®to develop new Turn-Key Datacenters®in our existing Powered Base Buildings®, on average we are able to deliver a fully commissioned facility in just under 30 weeks. Finally, our access to capital allows us to provide financing options for
tenants that do not want to invest their own capital.



•Diverse Tenant Base Across a Variety of Industry Sectors.We use our in-depth knowledge of the requirements and trends for Internet and data
communications and corporate data center users to market our properties to domestic and international tenants with specific technology needs. At December 31, 2009, we had approximately 325 tenants across a variety of industry sectors, ranging
from information technology and Internet enterprises to financial services, energy and manufacturing companies. No single tenant accounted for more than 10% of the aggregate annualized rent of our portfolio as of December 31, 2009.



•Experienced and Committed Management Team and Organization.Our senior management team, including our Chairman, has an average of over 25 years
of experience in the technology or real estate







industries, including experience as investors in, advisors to and founders of technology companies. We believe that our senior management team’s extensive knowledge of both the real estate
and the technology industries provides us with a key competitive advantage. At December 31, 2009, our senior management team collectively owned common equity interests in our company of approximately 1.3%, which aligns management’s
interests with those of our stockholders.



•Long-Term Leases That Complement Our Growth.We have long-term leases with stable cash flows. As of December 31, 2009, our weighted-average
lease term was in excess of 13 years, with a weighted-average of seven years remaining, excluding renewal options. Our lease expirations through December 31, 2011 are 14.2% of our net rentable square feet excluding space held for redevelopment
as of December 31, 2009.

Business and Growth Strategies

Our primary business objectives are to maximize sustainable long-term growth in earnings, funds from operations and cash flow per share and
to maximize returns to our stockholders. Our business strategies to achieve these objectives are:



•Achieve Superior Returns on Redevelopment Inventory.At December 31, 2009, we had approximately 1.8 million square feet held for
redevelopment. At December 31, 2009, 87,000 square feet of our space held for redevelopment was undergoing construction for Turn-Key Datacenter®, build-to-suit data center and Powered Base Building®space in two U.S. and one European markets. These projects have sufficient power capacity to meet the power and cooling requirements of today’s advanced data
centers. We will continue to build-out our redevelopment portfolio when justified by anticipated returns.



•Capitalize on Acquisition Opportunities.We believe that acquisitions enable us to increase cash flow and create long-term stockholder
value. Our relationships with corporate information technology groups, technology tenants and real estate brokers who are dedicated to serving these tenants provide us with ongoing access to potential acquisitions and often enable us to avoid
competitive bidding. Furthermore, the specialized nature of technology-related real estate makes it more difficult for traditional real estate investors to understand, which results in reduced competition for acquisitions relative to other property
types. We believe this dynamic creates an opportunity for us to obtain better risk-adjusted returns on our capital.



•Access and Use Capital Efficiently.We believe we can increase stockholder returns by effectively accessing and deploying capital. Since our
initial public offering in 2004, we have raised over $4.5 billion of capital through common, preferred and convertible preferred equity offerings, two exchangeable debt offerings, our revolving credit facility, secured mortgage financings and
refinancings, and sales of non-core assets. We will endeavor to maintain financial flexibility while using our liquidity and access to capital to support operations, including our acquisition, leasing, development and redevelopment programs, which
are important sources of growth for the company.



•Maximize the Cash Flow of our Properties.We aggressively manage and lease our assets to increase their cash flow. We often acquire
properties with substantial in-place cash flow and some vacancy, which enables us to create upside through lease-up. Moreover, many of our properties contain extensive in-place infrastructure or buildout that may result in higher rents when leased
to tenants seeking these improvements. We control our costs by negotiating expense pass-through provisions in tenant leases for operating expenses, including power costs, and certain capital expenditures. Leases covering more than 75% of the leased
net rentable square feet in our portfolio as of December 31, 2009 required tenants to pay all or a portion of increases in operating expenses, including real estate taxes, insurance, common area charges and other expenses.



•Leverage Strong Industry Relationships.We use our strong industry relationships with national and regional corporate enterprise information
technology groups and technology-intensive companies to







identify and comprehensively respond to their real estate needs. Our leasing and sales professionals are real estate and technology industry specialists who can develop complex facility solutions
for the most demanding corporate data center and other technology tenants.

Competition

Regulation

General

Office properties in our submarkets are subject to various laws, ordinances and regulations, including regulations
relating to common areas. We believe that each of our properties as of December 31, 2009 has the necessary permits and approvals to operate its business.

Americans With Disabilities Act

Our properties must comply with
Title III of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or the ADA, to the extent that such properties are “public accommodations” as defined by the ADA. The ADA may require removal of structural barriers to access by persons with
disabilities in certain public areas of our properties where such removal is readily achievable. We believe that our properties are in substantial compliance with the ADA and that we will not be required to make substantial capital expenditures to
address the requirements of the ADA. However, noncompliance with the ADA could result in imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants. The obligation to make readily achievable accommodations is an ongoing one, and we will
continue to assess our properties and to make alterations as appropriate in this respect.

Environmental Matters

Under various laws relating to the protection of the environment, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be liable for
contamination resulting from the presence or discharge of hazardous or toxic substances at that property, and may be required to investigate and clean up such contamination at that property or emanating from that property. Such laws often impose
liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the contaminants, and the liability may be joint and several. Previous owners used some of our properties for industrial and retail purposes,
so those properties may contain some level of environmental contamination. The presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination at our properties may expose us to third-party liability or materially adversely affect our ability to
sell, lease or develop the real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral.







Some of the properties may contain asbestos-containing building materials. Environmental
laws require that asbestos-containing building materials be properly managed and maintained, and may impose fines and penalties on building owners or operators for failure to comply with these requirements. These laws may also allow third parties to
seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos-containing building materials.

In addition, some of our tenants, particularly those in the biotechnology and life sciences industry and those in the technology manufacturing industry, routinely handle hazardous substances and wastes as part of their operations at our
properties. Environmental laws and regulations subject our tenants, and potentially us, to liability resulting from these activities or from previous industrial or retail uses of those properties. Environmental liabilities could also affect a
tenant’s ability to make rental payments to us. We require our tenants to comply with these environmental laws and regulations and to indemnify us for any related liabilities.

Independent environmental consultants have conducted Phase I or similar environmental site assessments on all of the properties in our
portfolio. Site assessments are intended to discover and evaluate information regarding the environmental condition of the surveyed property and surrounding properties. These assessments do not generally include soil samplings, subsurface
investigations or an asbestos survey. None of the recent site assessments revealed any past or present environmental liability that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, assets or results of operations. However, the
assessments may have failed to reveal all environmental conditions, liabilities or compliance concerns. Material environmental conditions, liabilities or compliance concerns may have arisen after the review was completed or may arise in the future;
and future laws, ordinances or regulations may impose material additional environmental liability.

Insurance

We carry comprehensive liability, fire, extended coverage, earthquake, business interruption and rental loss insurance covering all of the
properties in our portfolio under a blanket policy. We select policy specifications and insured limits which we believe to be appropriate given the relative risk of loss, the cost of the coverage and industry practice and, in the opinion of our
company’s management, the properties in our portfolio are currently adequately insured. We do not carry insurance for generally uninsured losses such as loss from war, or nuclear reaction. In addition, we carry earthquake insurance on our
properties in an amount and with deductibles which we believe are commercially reasonable. Certain of the properties in our portfolio are located in areas known to be seismically active. See “Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our Business and
Operations—Potential losses may not be covered by insurance.”

Employees

As of December 31, 2009 we had 264 employees. None of these employees are represented by a labor union.

How to Obtain Our SEC Filings

All reports we file with the SEC are available free of charge via EDGAR through the SEC website at www.sec.gov. In addition, the public may read and copy materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s public reference room located at 100
F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. We also provide copies of our Forms 8-K, 10-K, 10-Q, Proxy, Annual Report and amendments to those documents at no charge to investors upon request and make electronic copies of such reports available through
our website at www.digitalrealtytrust.com as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material with the SEC. The information found on, or otherwise accessible through, our website is not incorporated by reference into, nor does it form a
part of, this annual report on Form 10-K, or any other document that we file with the SEC.







Offices

Our headquarters are located in San Francisco. We have regional offices in Boston, Chicago, Dallas, Los Angeles, New York, Northern Virginia and Phoenix and international offices in Dublin, London and
Paris.



