ITEM 1.    BUSINESS

General

We own, acquire, develop and manage technology-related real estate. We target high-quality, strategically located properties containing applications and operations critical to the day-to-day operations of technology industry tenants and corporate enterprise datacenter users, including the information technology, or IT, departments of Fortune 100 and financial services companies. Our tenant base is diversified within the technology industry and reflects a broad spectrum of regional, national and international tenants that are leaders in their respective areas. Digital Realty Trust, L.P., a Maryland limited partnership, is the entity through which Digital Realty Trust, Inc., a Maryland corporation, conducts its business and owns its assets. Digital Realty Trust, Inc. operates as a REIT for federal income tax purposes.



As of

December 31, 2014

, our portfolio consisted of


properties, including


properties held as investments in unconsolidated joint ventures and developable land, of which


are located throughout North America,


are located in Europe,

three

are located in Australia and

two

are located in Asia. We are diversified in major markets where corporate datacenter and technology tenants are concentrated, including the Boston, Chicago, Dallas, Los Angeles, New York Metro, Northern Virginia, Phoenix, San Francisco and Silicon Valley metropolitan areas in the United States, Amsterdam, Dublin, London and Paris markets in Europe and Singapore, Sydney, Melbourne and Hong Kong markets in the Asia Pacific region. Our properties contain a total of approximately

24.6 million

rentable square feet including approximately

1.3 million

square feet of space under active development, which includes current base building and data center projects in progress, and approximately

1.2 million

square feet of space held for future development, which includes space held for future data center development and excludes space under active development. The


properties held as investments in unconsolidated joint ventures have an aggregate of approximately

1.8 million

rentable square feet. The


parcels of developable land we own comprised approximately


acres. A significant component of our current and future internal growth is anticipated through the development of our existing space held for development and acquisition of new properties. As of

December 31, 2014

, our portfolio, including the


properties held as investments in unconsolidated joint ventures and excluding space under active development and space held for future development, was approximately

93.2%

leased. The types of properties within our focus include:



•Corporate datacenters, which provide secure, continuously available environments for the storage and processing of critical electronic information. Data centers are used for disaster recovery purposes, transaction processing and to house corporate IT operations;

•Internet gateway datacenters, which serve as hubs for Internet and data communications within and between major metropolitan areas; and

•Technology manufacturing properties and regional or national offices of technology companies that are located in our target markets.

Unlike traditional office and flex/research and development space, the location of and improvements to our facilities are generally essential to our tenants’ businesses, which we believe results in high occupancy levels, long lease terms and low tenant turnover. In addition, many of our properties have tenant improvements that have been installed at our tenants’ expense. The tenant improvements in our facilities are generally readily adaptable for use by similar tenants.



Digital Realty Trust, Inc. was incorporated in the state of Maryland on March 9, 2004. Digital Realty Trust, L.P. was organized in the state of Maryland on July 21, 2004. Our principal executive offices are located at Four Embarcadero Center, Suite 3200, San Francisco, California 94111. Our telephone number at that location is (415) 738-6500. Our website is located at www.digitalrealty.com. The information found on, or otherwise accessible through, our website is not incorporated into, and does not form a part of, this annual report or any other report or document we file with or furnish to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC.
















Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



Recent Developments

On February 5, 2015, the operating partnership sold the 100 Quannapowitt property for approximately$31 million.The transaction after costs resulted in net proceeds of approximately$29 millionand a net gain of approximately$9 million. The property was identified as held for sale as of December 31, 2014. 100 Quannapowitt was not a significant component of our U.S. portfolio nor does the sale represent a significant shift in our strategy.

On February 25, 2015, we declared the following dividends per share. The operating partnership will make an equivalent distribution per unit.



Share / Unit ClassSeries EPreferred Stockand UnitSeries FPreferred Stockand UnitSeries GPreferred Stockand UnitSeries HPreferred Stockand UnitCommon stockand common unitDividend and distribution amount$0.437500$0.414063$0.367188$0.460938$0.850000Dividend and distribution payable dateMarch 31, 2015March 31, 2015March 31, 2015March 31, 2015March 31, 2015Dividend and distribution payable to holders of record onMarch 13, 2015March 13, 2015March 13, 2015March 13, 2015March 13, 2015Annual equivalent rate of dividend and distribution$1.750$1.656$1.469$1.844$3.400



Our Competitive Strengths



We believe we distinguish ourselves from other owners, acquirors and managers of technology-related real estate through our competitive strengths, which include:



•High-Quality Portfolio that is Difficult to Replicate.Our portfolio contains state-of-the-art data center facilities with extensive tenant improvements. Based on current market rents and the estimated replacement costs of our properties and their improvements, we believe that they could not be replicated today on a cost-competitive basis. Our portfolio of data center facilities is equipped to meet the power and cooling requirements for the most demanding corporate IT applications. Many of the properties in our portfolio are located on major aggregation points formed by the physical presence of multiple major telecommunications service providers, which reduces our tenants’ costs and operational risks and increases the attractiveness of our buildings.

•Presence in Key Markets.Our portfolio is located in33metropolitan areas, including the Boston, Chicago, Dallas, Los Angeles, New York Metro, Northern Virginia, Phoenix, San Francisco and Silicon Valley metropolitan areas in the United States, Amsterdam, Dublin, London and Paris markets in Europe and Singapore, Sydney, Melbourne and Hong Kong markets in the Asia Pacific region, and is diversified so that no one market represented more than approximately11%of the aggregate annualized rent of our portfolio as ofDecember 31, 2014. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Overview—Revenue Base.”

•Proven Experience Executing New Leases.We have considerable experience in identifying and leasing to new tenants. The combination of our specialized data center leasing team and customer referrals continues to provide a robust pipeline of new tenants. During the year endedDecember 31, 2014, we commenced new leases totaling approximately1.3 millionsquare feet, which represent approximately$153.8 millionin annualized GAAP rent. During the year endedDecember 31, 2014, we signed new leases totaling approximately1.4 millionsquare feet, which represent approximately$158.6 millionin annualized GAAP rent. These leases were comprised of Powered Base Buildings®, Turn-Key Flex®space, Custom Solutions product and space for ancillary office and other uses.

•Demonstrated Acquisition Capability.As ofDecember 31, 2014, our portfolio consisted of131properties, including14properties held as investments in unconsolidated joint ventures and developable land, for an aggregate of24.6 millionnet rentable square feet, including approximately1.3 millionsquare feet of space under active development and approximately1.2 millionsquare feet of space held for future development. We have developed detailed, standardized procedures for evaluating acquisitions, including income producing assets and vacant properties and land suitable for development, to ensure that they meet our financial, technical and other criteria. These procedures and our in-depth knowledge of the technology and data center industries allow us to identify strategically located properties and evaluate investment opportunities efficiently and, as appropriate, commit and close quickly. Our broad network of contacts within a highly fragmented universe of sellers and brokers of






Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



technology-related real estate enables us to capitalize on acquisition opportunities.  As a result, we acquired a substantial portion of our properties before they were broadly marketed by real estate brokers.

•Flexible Datacenter Solutions.We provide flexible, customer oriented solutions designed to meet the needs of domestic and international companies across multiple industry verticals, including Turn-Key Flex®, Powered Base Building®and Custom Solutions options. Our Turn-Key Flex®data centers are move-in ready, physically secure facilities with the power and cooling capabilities to support mission-critical IT enterprise applications. We believe our Turn-Key Flex®facilities are effective solutions for tenants that lack the expertise, capital budget or desire to provide their own extensive data center infrastructure, management and security. For tenants that possess the ability to build and operate their own facility, our Powered Base Building®solution provides the physical location, required power and network access necessary to support a state-of-the-art data center. Our in-house engineering and design and construction professionals can also provide tenants with our Custom Solutions product to meet their unique specifications. Our Critical Facilities Management®services and team of technical engineers and data center operations experts provide 24/7 support for these mission-critical facilities.

•Differentiating Development Advantages.Our extensive development activity, operating scale and process-based approach to data center design, construction and operations result in significant cost savings and added value for our tenants. We have leveraged our purchasing power by securing global purchasing agreements and developing relationships with major equipment manufacturers, reducing costs and shortening delivery timeframes on key components, including major mechanical and electrical equipment. Utilizing our innovative modular data center design referred to as POD Architecture®, we deliver what we believe to be a technically superior data center environment at significant cost savings. In addition, by utilizing our POD Architecture®to develop new Turn-Key Flex®facilities in our existing Powered Base Building®facilities, on average we are able to deliver a fully commissioned facility in just under 30 weeks. Finally, our access to capital allows us to provide data center solutions for tenants that do not want to invest their own capital.

•Diverse Tenant Base Across a Variety of Industry Sectors.We use our in-depth knowledge of the requirements and trends for Internet and data communications and corporate data center users to market our properties to domestic and international tenants with specific technology needs. AtDecember 31, 2014, we had over 650 tenants across a variety of industry verticals, ranging from financial services, cloud and information technology services, to manufacturing, energy, health care and consumer products. Our largest tenant, comprised of subsidiaries of CenturyLink, Inc., accounted for approximately 7.2% of the aggregate annualized rent of our portfolio as ofDecember 31, 2014and no other single tenant accounted for more than approximately 6.7% of the aggregate annualized rent of our portfolio.

•Experienced and Committed Management Team and Organization.Our senior management team has many years of experience in the technology or real estate industries, including experience as investors in, advisors to and founders of technology companies. We believe that our senior management team’s extensive knowledge of both the real estate and the technology industries provides us with a key competitive advantage. A significant portion of compensation for our senior management team and directors is in the form of common equity interests in our company, which aligns their interests with those of our stockholders.

Business and Growth Strategies

Our primary business objectives are to maximize sustainable long-term growth in earnings and funds from operations per share and unit and to maximize cash flow and returns to our stockholders and our operating partnership’s unitholders, including through the payment of distributions. Our business strategies to achieve these objectives are:



•Achieve Superior Returns on Development Inventory.AtDecember 31, 2014, we had approximately 1.3 million square feet of space under active development for Turn-Key Flex®, Powered Base Building®and Custom Solutions products, all of which are expected to be income producing on or after completion, in five U.S. markets, two Australian markets, one Canadian market and one European market, consisting of approximately 0.7 million square feet of base building construction and 0.6 million square feet of data center construction. We may continue to build out our development portfolio when justified by anticipated returns.

•Capitalize on Acquisition Opportunities.We believe that acquisitions enable us to increase cash flow and create long-term stockholder value. Our relationships with corporate information technology groups, technology tenants and real estate brokers who are dedicated to serving these tenants provide us with ongoing access to potential acquisitions and often enable us to avoid competitive bidding. Furthermore, the specialized nature of technology-related real estate makes it more difficult for traditional real estate investors to understand, which results in reduced






Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



competition for acquisitions relative to other property types. We believe this dynamic creates an opportunity for us to obtain better risk-adjusted returns on our capital.

•Access and Use Capital Efficiently.We believe we can increase stockholder returns by effectively accessing and deploying capital. Since Digital Realty Trust, Inc.’s initial public offering in 2004, our company has raised approximately $12.6 billion of capital through common, preferred and convertible preferred equity offerings, exchangeable debt offerings, non-exchangeable bond offerings, our global revolving credit facility, our term loan facility, the Prudential shelf facility, secured mortgage financings and refinancings and sales of non-core assets. We will endeavor to maintain financial flexibility while using our liquidity and access to capital to support operations, including our acquisition, leasing and development programs, which are important sources of our growth.

•Maximize the Cash Flow of Our Properties.We aggressively manage and lease our assets to increase their cash flow. We often acquire properties with substantial in-place cash flow and some vacancy, which enables us to create upside through lease-up. Moreover, many of our properties contain extensive in-place infrastructure or buildout that may result in higher rents when leased to tenants seeking these improvements. We control our costs by negotiating expense pass-through provisions in tenant leases for operating expenses, including power costs and certain capital expenditures. Leases covering approximately 73% of the leased net rentable square feet in our portfolio as ofDecember 31, 2014required tenants to pay all or a portion of increases in operating expenses, including real estate taxes, insurance, common area charges and other expenses.

•Leverage Strong Industry Relationships.We use our strong industry relationships with national and regional corporate enterprise information technology groups and technology-intensive companies to identify and comprehensively respond to their real estate needs. Our company’s leasing and sales professionals are real estate and technology industry specialists who can develop complex facility solutions for the most demanding corporate data center and other technology tenants.

Competition

Geographic Information

Operating revenues from properties in the United States were$1.2 billion,$1.1 billionand$1.1 billionand outside the United States were$383.0 million,$349.1 millionand$228.9 millionfor the years endedDecember 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. We had long-lived assets located in the United States with a net book value of$5.4 billion,$5.6 billionand$5.0 billionand outside the United States of$2.7 billion,$2.7 billionand$2.5 billionas ofDecember 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively.

Operating revenues from properties located in the United Kingdom were$215.7 million,$197.0 millionand$117.2 million, or13.3%,13.3%and9.2%of total operating revenues for the years endedDecember 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. No other foreign country comprised more than 10% of total operating revenues for each of these years. We had long-lived assets located in the United Kingdom of$1.7 billion,$1.8 billionand$1.7 billion, or21.3%,21.1%and22.3%of total long-lived assets as ofDecember 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. No other foreign country comprised more than 10% of total long-lived assets as of each ofDecember 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012.  See “Risk Factors—Ownership of properties located outside of the United States subjects us to foreign currency and related risks which may adversely impact our ability to make distributions”, “—Our international activities are subject to unique risks different than those faced by us in the United States and we may not be able to effectively manage our international business” and “—We face risks with our international acquisitions associated with investing in unfamiliar markets” for risks relating to our foreign operations.






Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



Regulation

General

Office properties in our markets are subject to various laws, ordinances and regulations, including regulations relating to common areas. We believe that each of our properties as of December 31, 2014 has the necessary permits and approvals to operate its business.

Americans With Disabilities Act

Our properties must comply with Title III of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or the ADA, to the extent that such properties are “public accommodations” as defined by the ADA. The ADA may require removal of structural barriers to access by persons with disabilities in certain public areas of our properties where such removal is readily achievable. We believe that our properties are in substantial compliance with the ADA and that we will not be required to make substantial capital expenditures to address the requirements of the ADA. However, noncompliance with the ADA could result in imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants. The obligation to make readily achievable accommodations is an ongoing one, and we will continue to assess our properties and to make alterations as appropriate in this respect.

Environmental Matters

In addition, some of our tenants, particularly those in the biotechnology and life sciences industry and those in the technology manufacturing industry, routinely handle hazardous substances and wastes as part of their operations at our properties. Environmental laws and regulations subject our tenants, and potentially us, to liability resulting from these activities or from previous industrial or retail uses of those properties. We could be held jointly and severally liable under CERCLA and various state laws for the investigation and remediation of hazardous substances releases by our tenants. Environmental liabilities could also affect a tenant’s ability to make rental payments to us.  We cannot assure you that costs of investigation and






Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



remediation of environmental matters will not affect our ability to pay dividends to Digital Realty Trust, Inc.’s stockholders and distributions to Digital Realty Trust, L.P.’s unitholders or that such costs or other remedial measures will not have a material adverse effect on our business, assets or results of operations or our competitive position.



Our properties and their uses often require permits from various government agencies, including permits related to zoning and land use, such as permits to operate data center facilities. Certain permits from state or local environmental regulatory agencies, including regulators of air quality, are usually required to install and operate diesel-powered generators, which provide emergency back-up power at most of our facilities. These permits often set emissions limits for certain air pollutants, including oxides of nitrogen. In addition, various federal, state, and local environmental, health and safety requirements, such as fire requirements and treated and storm water discharge requirements, apply to some of our properties. Changes to applicable regulations, such as air quality regulations, or the permit requirements for equipment at our facilities, could hinder or prevent our construction or operation of data center facilities.



The environmental laws and regulations to which our properties are subject may change in the future, and new laws and regulations may be created. Future laws, ordinances or regulations may impose additional material environmental liability. Such laws include those directly regulating our climate change impacts and those which regulate the climate change impacts of companies with which we do business, such as utilities providing our facilities with electricity. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Factors Which May Influence Future Results of Operations-Climate change legislation.” We do not know if or how the requirements will change, but changes may require that we make significant unanticipated expenditures, and such expenditures may materially adversely impact our financial condition, cash flow, results, cash available for distributions, common stock’s per share trading price, our competitive position and ability to satisfy our debt service obligations.

Insurance

We carry comprehensive liability, fire, extended coverage, earthquake, business interruption and rental loss insurance covering all of the properties in our portfolio under a blanket policy. We select policy specifications and insured limits which we believe to be appropriate given the relative risk of loss, the cost of the coverage and industry practice and, in the opinion of our company’s management, the properties in our portfolio are currently adequately insured. We do not carry insurance for generally uninsured losses such as loss from war or nuclear reaction. In addition, we carry earthquake insurance on our properties in an amount and with deductibles which we believe are commercially reasonable. We intend to partially fund the earthquake insurance deductibles through a captive insurance company we established in May 2014. Certain of the properties in our portfolio are located in areas known to be seismically active.   See “Risk Factors-Risks Related to Our Business and Operations-Potential losses may not be covered by insurance.”

Employees

As ofDecember 31, 2014, we had 860 employees. None of these employees are represented by a labor union.

How to Obtain Our SEC Filings

All reports we file with the SEC will be available free of charge via EDGAR through the SEC website at www.sec.gov. In addition, the public may read and copy materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s public reference room located at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. We will also provide copies of our Forms 8-K, 10-K, 10-Q, Proxy Statement, Annual Report and amendments to those documents at no charge to investors upon request and make electronic copies of such reports available through our website at www.digitalrealty.com as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material with the SEC. The information found on, or otherwise accessible through, our website is not incorporated by reference into, nor does it form a part of, this report or any other document that we file with the SEC.

Offices

Our headquarters are located in San Francisco. We have domestic offices in Boston, Chicago, Dallas, Los Angeles, New York, Northern Virginia and Phoenix and international offices in Dublin, London, Paris, Singapore, Sydney and Hong Kong.

Reports to Security Holders

Digital Realty Trust, Inc. is required to send an annual report to its securityholders and to our operating partnership’s unitholders.








Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements





