ITEM 1.    BUSINESS

General



Digital Realty Trust, Inc. through its controlling interest in Digital Realty Trust, L.P. (the Operating Partnership) and the subsidiaries of the Operating Partnership (collectively, we, our, us or the Company) is engaged in the business of owning, acquiring, developing and operating data centers. The Company is focused on providing data center, colocation and interconnection solutions for domestic and international tenants across a variety of industry verticals ranging from financial services, cloud and information technology services, to manufacturing, energy, healthcare, and consumer products. Digital Realty Trust, L.P., a Maryland limited partnership, is the entity through which Digital Realty Trust, Inc., a Maryland corporation, conducts its business and owns its assets. Digital Realty Trust, Inc. operates as a REIT for federal income tax purposes.



On July 5, 2016, we completed the acquisition of a portfolio of8high-quality, carrier-neutral data centers in Europe from Equinix, which we refer to as the European Portfolio Acquisition.  The purchase price was$818.9 millionin the aggregate (based on the exchange rate at the date of acquisition).  We believe the acquisition of these premium assets in Amsterdam, Frankfurt and London will enhance our interconnection growth and colocation lease-up potential globally.



On October 9, 2015, we acquired Telx Holdings, Inc., or Telx, a leading national provider of data center colocation, interconnection and cloud enablement solutions, for approximately $1.886 billion. We believe this transaction established us as a leading colocation and interconnection platform in the U.S., complementing our existing large-footprint business.

As ofDecember 31, 2016, our portfolio consisted of145operating properties, including14properties held as investments in unconsolidated joint ventures, of which104are located throughout the United States,32are located in Europe,fourare located in Asia,threeare located in Australia andtwoare located in Canada.

We are diversified in major metropolitan areas where data center and technology tenants are concentrated, including the Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Dallas, Los Angeles, New York, Northern Virginia, Phoenix, San Francisco, Seattle and Silicon Valley metropolitan areas in the United States, the Amsterdam, Dublin, Frankfurt, London and Paris metropolitan areas in Europe and the Singapore, Sydney, Melbourne, Hong Kong and Osaka metropolitan areas in the Asia Pacific region. Our properties contain a total of approximately

26.1 million

rentable square feet including approximately

2.0 million

square feet of space under active development, which includes current base building and data center projects in progress, as well as approximately

1.1 million

square feet of space held for future development, which includes space held for future data center development and excludes space under active development. The


properties held as investments in unconsolidated joint ventures have an aggregate of approximately

1.9 million

rentable square feet. The


parcels of developable land we own comprised approximately


acres. A significant component of our current and future internal growth is expected to be generated through the development of our existing space held for development and acquisition of new properties.  As of

December 31, 2016

, our portfolio, including the


properties held as investments in unconsolidated joint ventures and excluding space under active development and space held for future development, was approximately

89.4%

leased. The types of properties within our portfolio include:



•Data centers, which provide secure, continuously available environments for the exchange, processing and storage of critical electronic information. Data centers are used for digital communication, disaster recovery purposes, transaction processing and housing corporate IT operations;

•Internet gateway data centers, which serve as hubs for Internet and data communications within and between major metropolitan areas; and

•Office and other non-data center space.



Unlike traditional office and flex/research and development space, the location of and improvements to our facilities, including network density, interconnection infrastructure and connectivity-centric customers in certain of our facilities, are generally essential to our businesses, which we believe results in high occupancy levels, longer average lease terms and customer relationships and lower turnover. In addition, many of our properties have tenant improvements that have been installed at our tenants’ expense. The tenant improvements in our facilities are generally readily adaptable for use by similar tenants.








Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



Digital Realty Trust, Inc. was incorporated in the state of Maryland on March 9, 2004. Digital Realty Trust, L.P. was organized in the state of Maryland on July 21, 2004. Our principal executive offices are located at Four Embarcadero Center, Suite 3200, San Francisco, California 94111. Our telephone number at that location is (415) 738-6500. Our website is located at www.digitalrealty.com. The information found on, or otherwise accessible through, our website is not incorporated into, and does not form a part of, this annual report or any other report or document we file with or furnish to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC.



Recent Developments

On March 1, 2017, we declared the following dividends per share. The Operating Partnership will make an equivalent distribution per unit.



Share / Unit ClassSeries FPreferred Stockand UnitSeries GPreferred Stockand UnitSeries HPreferred Stockand UnitSeries I Preferred Stock and UnitCommon stockand common unitDividend and distribution amount$0.414063$0.367188$0.460938$0.396875$0.930000Dividend and distribution payable dateMarch 31, 2017March 31, 2017March 31, 2017March 31, 2017March 31, 2017Dividend and distribution payable to holders of record onMarch 15, 2017March 15, 2017March 15, 2017March 15, 2017March 15, 2017Annual equivalent rate of dividend and distribution$1.656$1.469$1.844$1.588$3.720





Our Competitive Strengths



We believe we distinguish ourselves from other owners, acquirors and managers of technology-related real estate through our competitive strengths, which include:



•High-Quality Global Portfolio that is Difficult to Replicate.Our portfolio contains state-of-the-art data center facilities with extensive tenant improvements in 33 metropolitan areas across 12 countries. Our portfolio of data center facilities is equipped to meet the power and cooling requirements for customers with smaller footprints up to the most demanding corporate IT applications. Many of the properties in our portfolio are located on major aggregation points formed by the physical presence of multiple major telecommunications service providers, which reduces our customers’ costs and operational risks and enhances the attractiveness of our properties. In addition, our strategically located global data center campuses offer our customers a place to grow as their businesses grow, and we believe that expanding connectivity offerings in our campus facilities will also enhance the attractiveness of these facilities. Further, the network density, interconnection infrastructure and connectivity-centric customers in certain of our facilities has led to the formation of densely connected ecosystems that are difficult to replicate and valuable to customers. We believe that a high-quality global portfolio like ours could not be easily replicated today on a cost-competitive basis.

•Presence in Key Metropolitan Areas.Our portfolio is located in 33 major metropolitan areas where data center and technology tenants are concentrated, including the including the Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Dallas, Los Angeles, New York, Northern Virginia, Phoenix, San Francisco, Seattle and Silicon Valley metropolitan areas in the United States, the Amsterdam, Dublin, Frankfurt, London and Paris metropolitan areas in Europe and the Singapore, Sydney, Melbourne, Hong Kong and Osaka metropolitan areas in the Asia Pacific region.  Our portfolio is geographically diversified so that no one metropolitan area represented more than approximately11.8%of the aggregate annualized rent of our portfolio as ofDecember 31, 2016. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Overview—Revenue Base.”

•Proven Experience Attracting and Retaining Customers.We have considerable experience in identifying and attracting new customers and retaining existing customers. Our specialized data center sales force provides a robust pipeline of new clients, while existing customers continue to grow and expand with us. During the year endedDecember 31, 2016, we commenced new leases totaling approximately0.8 millionsquare feet, which represent approximately$133.5 millionin annualized GAAP rent. During the year endedDecember 31, 2016, we signed new leases totaling approximately0.8 millionsquare feet, which represent approximately$126.2 millionin annualized GAAP rent. These leases were comprised of Powered Base Buildings®, Turn-Key Flex®and colocation space and space for ancillary office and other uses.

•Demonstrated Investment Acumen.We have developed detailed, standardized procedures for evaluating acquisitions, including income-producing properties as well as vacant buildings and land suitable for development, to ensure that they meet our strategic, financial, technical and other criteria. These procedures and our in-depth






Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



knowledge of the technology and data center industries as well as the real estate industry allow us to identify strategically located properties and evaluate investment opportunities efficiently and, as appropriate, commit and close quickly. Our broad network of contacts within a highly fragmented universe of sellers and brokers of technology-related real estate enables us to capitalize on acquisition opportunities. As a result, we acquired a substantial portion of our properties before they were broadly marketed by real estate brokers.

•Flexible Data Center Solutions.We provide flexible, customer-oriented solutions designed to meet the needs of domestic and international companies across multiple industry verticals. Our Turn-Key Flex®and colocation data centers are move-in ready, physically secure facilities with the power and cooling capabilities to support mission-critical IT enterprise applications. We believe our Turn-Key Flex®facilities are effective solutions for customers who may lack the bandwidth, capital budget, expertise or desire to provide their own extensive data center infrastructure, management and security. We also believe that our colocation and interconnection platform offers a number of options for customers looking for small to larger footprints and connectivity solutions. For customers who possess the ability to build and operate their own facility, our Powered Base Building®solution provides the physical location, required power and network access necessary to support a state-of-the-art data center. Furthermore, our data center campuses offer our customers the opportunity to expand and grow in or near their existing deployments within a campus. Our Critical Facilities Management®services and team of technical engineers and data center operations experts provide 24/7 support for these mission-critical facilities.

•Leading Colocation and Interconnection Platform.We believe the acquisition of Telx, or the Telx Acquisition, and the European Portfolio Acquisition have established us as a leading provider of colocation, interconnection and cloud-enablement services globally. We believe interconnection is an attractive line of business that would be difficult to build organically and enhances the overall value proposition of our colocation and large-footprint data center product offerings. In addition to enhancing our presence in top-tier locations throughout the U.S and Europe providing significant opportunities for additional growth, we believe the Telx Acquisition and the  European Portfolio Acquisition expanded our product mix to appeal to a broader spectrum of data center customers.

•Differentiating Development Advantages.Our extensive development activity, operating scale and process-based approach to data center design, construction and operations result in significant cost savings and added value for our customers. We have leveraged our purchasing power by securing global purchasing agreements and developing relationships with major equipment manufacturers, reducing costs and shortening delivery timeframes on key components, including major mechanical and electrical equipment. Utilizing our innovative modular data center design referred to as POD Architecture®, we deliver what we believe to be a technically superior data center environment at significant cost savings. In addition, by utilizing our POD Architecture® to develop new Turn-Key Flex®facilities in our existing Powered Base Building®facilities, on average we are able to deliver a fully commissioned facility in under 30 weeks. Finally, our access to capital allows us to provide data center solutions for customers who do not want to invest their own capital.

•Diverse Customer Base across a Wide Variety of Industry Sectors.We use our in-depth knowledge of the requirements and trends for social networking, mobile communications, analytics, cloud and content providers, network providers, information technology services providers and data center users, including financial services companies, to market our properties to domestic and international customers with specific technology needs. AtDecember 31, 2016, we had over 2,200 customers across a variety of industry verticals, ranging from cloud and information technology services to financial services, manufacturing, energy, gaming, life sciences and consumer products. Our largest customer, IBM, accounted for approximately 7.8% of the aggregate annualized rent as ofDecember 31, 2016and no other single customer accounted for more than approximately 5.7% of the aggregate annualized rent of our portfolio.

•Experienced and Committed Management Team and Organization.Our senior management team has many years of experience in the technology or real estate industries, including experience as investors in, advisors to and founders of technology companies. We believe that our senior management team’s extensive knowledge of both the real estate and the technology industries provides us with a key competitive advantage. Further, a significant portion of compensation for our senior management team and directors is in the form of common equity interests in our Company and we recently instituted minimum stock ownership requirements, further aligning their interests with those of external stockholders. We have also implemented an employee stock purchase plan, which allows our employees to increase their ownership in the Company.

Business and Growth Strategies

Our primary business objective is maximize value creation on a per share and unit basis through achieving superior organic growth, prudently allocating capital and preserving the flexibility of our balance sheet.








Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



•Achieve Superior Returns.We believe that achieving appropriate risk-adjusted returns on our business, including on our development pipeline and leasing transactions, will deliver superior stockholder returns. AtDecember 31, 2016, we had approximately2.0 millionsquare feet of space under active development for Turn-Key Flex®and Powered Base Building®products in five U.S. metropolitan areas, three European metropolitan areas, one Canadian metropolitan area and one Asian metropolitan area, consisting of approximately1.2 millionsquare feet of base building construction and0.8 millionsquare feet of data center construction. We may continue to build out our development pipeline when justified by anticipated returns. We also believe that providing an even stronger value proposition to our customers, including through new and enhanced product offerings, as well as improving operational efficiencies, will further drive improved returns for our business.

•Provide Foundational Services to Enable Customers and Partners.We believe that our global infrastructure platform, through which we offer the foundational services of space, power and connectivity, will enable our customers and partners to serve their customers and grow their businesses. We believe our internet gateway facilities, individual data centers and data center campuses are attractive to a wide variety of customers and partners of all sizes. Furthermore, we believe our colocation and interconnection offerings, as well as the densely connected ecosystems that have developed within our facilities, are valuable and critical to our customers and partners.

•Prudently Allocate Capital.We believe that the accretive deployment of capital at sufficiently positive spreads above our cost of capital enables us to increase cash flow and create long-term stockholder value. Our relationships with corporate information technology groups, technology tenants and real estate brokers who are dedicated to serving these tenants provide us with ongoing access to potential investment opportunities and frequently enable us to avoid competitive bidding. In addition, the specialized nature of technology-related real estate makes it more difficult for traditional real estate investors to underwrite, resulting in reduced competition for investments relative to other property types. We believe this dynamic creates an opportunity for us to generate better risk-adjusted returns on our capital. We employ a collaborative approach to deal analysis, risk management and asset allocation, focusing on key elements, such as market fundamentals, accessibility to fiber and power, and the local regulatory environment.

•Preserve the Flexibility of Our Balance Sheet.We are committed to maintaining a conservative capital structure. We target a debt-to-Adjusted EBITDA ratio at or less than 5.5x, fixed charge coverage of greater than three times, and floating rate debt at less than 20% of total outstanding debt. In addition, we strive to maintain a well-laddered debt maturity schedule, and we seek to maximize the menu of our available sources of capital, while minimizing the cost. Since Digital Realty Trust, Inc.’s initial public offering in 2004, our company has raised approximately $18.0 billion of capital through common, preferred and convertible preferred equity offerings, exchangeable debt offerings, non-exchangeable bond offerings, our global revolving credit facility, our term loan facility, the Prudential shelf facility, secured mortgage financings and refinancings, joint venture partnerships and sales of non-core assets. We endeavor to maintain financial flexibility while using our liquidity and access to capital to support operations, including our acquisition, leasing and development programs and global campus expansion, which are important sources of our growth.

•Maximize Property-Level Cash Flow.We aggressively manage our properties to maximize cash flow. We often acquire properties with substantial in-place cash flow and some vacancy, which enables us to create upside through lease-up. We control our costs by negotiating expense pass-through provisions in tenant leases for operating expenses, including power costs and certain capital expenditures. We also control costs by driving operating efficiencies, which include focusing on centralizing functions and optimizing operations as well as improving processes and technologies. We believe that expanding our global data center campuses will also contribute to operating efficiencies because we expect to achieve economies of scale on our campus environments.

•Leverage Strong Industry Relationships.We use our strong industry relationships with national and regional corporate enterprise information technology groups and technology-intensive companies to identify and comprehensively respond to their data center needs. Our sales professionals are real estate and technology industry specialists who can develop complex facility solutions for the most demanding data center and other technology tenants.








Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



Sustainability



We believe that addressing sustainability matters that are important to our clients allows us to deliver products that help attract and retain customers, generate cash flow, and manage operational risks. We manage our properties so that they offer high degrees of operational efficiencies for our customers. We benchmark and certify certain properties in accordance with the EPA Energy Star program, LEEDTM, BREEAM, as well as other recognized third party rating standards. A portion of our U.S. portfolio is enrolled in the U.S. Department of Energy’s Better Buildings Challenge for Data Centers. We have developed solutions to help our customers efficiently utilize energy and water, and to help them procure renewable energy. We were named a Top Socially Responsible Dividend Stock by Dividend Channel in 2016, signifying a stock that exhibits strong dividend yield and high environmental and social standards. We are listed in 19th place on the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's National Top 100 list of the largest green power users. We completed the allocation of net proceeds from the issuance of our green bond, which was used to support the development of sustainable building projects.



Sustainable Building Ratings



Buildings receiving ratings in 2016 totaled 892,907 square feet, or approximately 3.4% of our portfolio. We received the following sustainable building ratings for all, or a portion of, the following sites:



Metropolitan AreaRating FrameworkLevel Attained9333 W Grand Ave.ChicagoLEED1Certified720 2ndSt.OaklandLEEDGold365 Main St.San FranciscoLEEDGold3 Loyang WaySingaporeBCA2Green MarkPlatinum375 Riverside ParkwayAtlantaEnergy StarLabeled



1.LEEDTM: Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design

2.BCA: Building and Construction Authority





Energy Conservation



In 2016, the following sites were enrolled in the U.S. Department of Energy’s Better Buildings Challenge:



Metropolitan Area375 Riverside ParkwayAtlanta55 Middlesex TurnpikeBoston4025 Midway RdDallas900 Quality WayDallas350 E. Cermak RdChicago120 E. Van Buren StPhoenix200 Paul AveSan Francisco3105 Alfred StSanta Clara1525 Comstock StSanta Clara



Our goal for the Challenge is to reduce non-IT energy intensity 20% by 2024 across a 0.79 million square foot portion of the portfolio compared to a 2013 baseline. This includes approximately 4.1% of the U.S. portfolio, excluding square footage under active development and space held for development. Properties enrolled in the Challenge demonstrated cumulative reductions in non-IT energy intensity of 17% through the second quarter of 2016 (the most recent data available), compared to a 2013 baseline.



Renewable Energy



In 2016, we entered into a power purchase agreement to secure the renewable energy attributes from a wind farm in Texas.






Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements







Green Bond



In June 2016, we completed the allocation of $493.1 million of net proceeds from the issuance of our 3.950% Notes due 2022, which we refer to as the 3.950% 2022 Notes or the green bonds. Proceeds from the green bonds were used to support the development of nine sustainable projects located in four countries that received certification in accordance with LEED, BREEAM, or CEEDA sustainable rating standards, listed below:



Metropolitan AreaRating FrameworkLevel Attained3825 NW Aloclek PlaceHillsboroLEEDGold43830 Devin Shafron Drive, Building FAshburnLEEDSilverCrawley 1LondonBREEAM4Excellent7500 Metro Center DriveAustinCEEDAGold900 Quality WayDallasLEEDSilver1-11 Templar RoadSydneyLEEDGold98 Radnor DriveMelbourneLEEDPlatinumProfile ParkDublinBREEAM5Excellent43940 Digital Loudoun Plaza, Building GAshburnLEEDSilver



3.BREEAM: Building Research Establishment Assessment Method

4.CEEDA: Certified Energy Efficient Data Center Award



Competition



Geographic Information

Operating revenues from properties in the United States were$1.7 billion,$1.4 billionand$1.2 billionand outside the United States were$0.4 billion,$0.4 billionand$0.4 billionfor the years endedDecember 31, 2016,2015and2014, respectively. We had investments in real estate located in the United States with a net book value of$6.3 billion,$6.1 billionand$5.4 billionand outside the United States of$2.6 billion,$2.6 billionand$2.7 billionas ofDecember 31, 2016,2015and2014, respectively.

Operating revenues from properties located in the United Kingdom were$0.2 billion,$0.2 billionand$0.2 billion, or11.1%,12.3%and13.3%of total operating revenues, for the years endedDecember 31, 2016,2015and2014, respectively. No other foreign country comprised more than 10% of total operating revenues for each of these years. We had investments in real estate located in the United Kingdom of$1.5 billion,$1.6 billionand$1.7 billion, or16.6%,18.8%and21.3%of total investments in real estate, as ofDecember 31, 2016,2015and2014, respectively. No other foreign country comprised more than 10% of total investments in real estate as of each ofDecember 31, 2016,2015and2014. See “Risk Factors—Ownership of properties located outside of the United States subjects us to foreign currency and related risks which may adversely impact






Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



our ability to make distributions”, “—Our international activities are subject to unique risks different than those faced by us in the United States and we may not be able to effectively manage our international business” and “—We face risks with our international acquisitions associated with investing in unfamiliar metropolitan areas” for risks relating to our foreign operations.

Regulation

General

Our properties are subject to various laws, ordinances and regulations, including regulations relating to common areas. We believe that each of our properties as ofDecember 31, 2016has the necessary permits and approvals to operate.

Americans with Disabilities Act

Our properties must comply with Title III of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or the ADA, to the extent that such properties are “public accommodations” as defined by the ADA. The ADA may require removal of structural barriers to access by persons with disabilities in certain public areas of our properties where such removal is readily achievable. We believe that our properties are in substantial compliance with the ADA and that we will not be required to make substantial capital expenditures to address the requirements of the ADA. However, noncompliance with the ADA could result in imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants. The obligation to make readily achievable accommodations is an ongoing one, and we will continue to assess our properties and to make alterations as appropriate in this respect.

Environmental Matters

Previous owners used some of our properties for industrial and retail purposes, and those properties may contain some level of environmental contamination. Independent environmental consultants have conducted Phase I or similar environmental site assessments on all of the properties in our portfolio. Site assessments are intended to discover and evaluate information regarding the environmental condition of the surveyed property and surrounding properties. These assessments do not generally include soil samplings, subsurface investigations or an asbestos survey and the assessments may have failed to reveal all material environmental conditions, liabilities or compliance concerns. In addition, material environmental conditions, liabilities or compliance concerns may have arisen after these reviews were completed or may arise in the future. We could be held jointly and severally liable under CERCLA and various state laws for the investigation and remediation of environmental contamination caused by previous owners or operators. Fuel storage tanks are present at most of our properties, and if releases were to occur, we may be liable for the costs of cleaning any resulting contamination. The presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination at our properties may expose us to third-party liability or materially adversely affect our ability to sell, lease or develop the real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral.

In addition, some of our tenants, particularly those in the biotechnology and life sciences industry and those in the technology manufacturing industry, routinely handle hazardous substances and wastes as part of their operations at our properties. Environmental laws and regulations subject our tenants, and potentially us, to liability resulting from these activities or from previous industrial or retail uses of those properties. We could be held jointly and severally liable under CERCLA and various state laws for the investigation and remediation of hazardous substances released by our tenants. Environmental






Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



liabilities could also affect a tenant’s ability to make rental payments to us. We cannot assure you that costs of investigation and remediation of environmental matters will not affect our ability to pay dividends to Digital Realty Trust, Inc.’s stockholders and distributions to Digital Realty Trust, L.P.’s unitholders or that such costs or other remedial measures will not have a material adverse effect on our business, assets or results of operations or our competitive position.



Our properties and their uses often require permits from various government agencies, including permits related to zoning and land use, such as permits to operate data center facilities. Certain permits from state or local environmental regulatory agencies, including regulators of air quality, are usually required to install and operate diesel-powered generators, which provide emergency back-up power at most of our facilities. These permits often set emissions limits for certain air pollutants, including oxides of nitrogen. In addition, various federal, state, and local environmental, health and safety requirements, such as fire requirements and treated and storm water discharge requirements, apply to some of our properties. Changes to applicable regulations, such as air quality regulations, or the permit requirements for equipment at our facilities, could hinder or prevent our construction or operation of data center facilities.



The environmental laws and regulations to which our properties are subject may change in the future, and new laws and regulations may be created. Future laws, ordinances or regulations may impose additional material environmental liability. Such laws include those directly regulating our climate change impacts and those which regulate the climate change impacts of companies with which we do business, such as utilities providing our facilities with electricity. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Factors Which May Influence Future Results of Operations—Climate change legislation.” We do not know if or how the requirements will change, but changes may require that we make significant unanticipated expenditures, and such expenditures may materially adversely impact our financial condition, cash flow, results of operations, cash available for distributions, common stock’s per share trading price, our competitive position and ability to satisfy our debt service obligations.

Insurance

We carry commercial general liability, property, and business interruption insurance, including rental income loss coverage, covering all of the properties in our portfolio under a blanket program. We select policy specifications and insured limits which we believe to be appropriate given the relative risk of loss, the cost of the coverage and industry practice and, in the opinion of our Company’s management, the properties in our portfolio are currently adequately insured. We do not carry insurance for generally uninsured exposures such as loss from war or nuclear reaction. In addition, we carry earthquake insurance on our properties in an amount and with deductibles which we believe are commercially reasonable. We intend to partially fund the earthquake insurance deductibles through a captive insurance company we established in May 2014. Certain of the properties in our portfolio are located in areas known to be seismically active.   See “Risk Factors-Risks Related to Our Business and Operations-Potential losses may not be covered by insurance.”

Employees

As ofDecember 31, 2016, we had 1,345 employees.

How to Obtain Our SEC Filings

All reports we file with the SEC will be available free of charge via EDGAR through the SEC website at www.sec.gov. In addition, the public may read and copy materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s public reference room located at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. We will also provide copies of our Forms 8-K, 10-K, 10-Q, Proxy Statement, Annual Report and amendments to those documents at no charge to investors upon request and make electronic copies of such reports available through our website at www.digitalrealty.com as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material with the SEC. The information found on, or otherwise accessible through, our website is not incorporated by reference into, nor does it form a part of, this report or any other document that we file with the SEC.

Offices



Our headquarters are located in San Francisco. We have regional U.S. offices in Boston, Chicago, Dallas, Los Angeles, New York, Northern Virginia and Phoenix and regional international offices in Amsterdam, Dublin, London, Singapore, Sydney and Hong Kong.






Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



Reports to Security Holders

Digital Realty Trust, Inc. is required to send an annual report to its securityholders and to our Operating Partnership’s unitholders.








Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements





