ITEM 1.BUSINESS

General

We own, acquire, develop, redevelop and manage technology-related real estate. We target high-quality, strategically located properties
containing applications and operations critical to the day-to-day operations of technology industry tenants and corporate enterprise datacenter users, including the information technology, or IT, departments of Fortune 100 and financial services
companies. Our tenant base is diversified within the technology industry and reflects a broad spectrum of regional, national and international tenants that are leaders in their respective areas. Digital Realty Trust, L.P., a Maryland limited
partnership, is the entity through which Digital Realty Trust, Inc., a Maryland corporation, conducts its business and owns its assets. Digital Realty Trust, Inc. operates as a REIT for federal income tax purposes.

At December 31, 2010, we owned 96 properties, excluding two properties held as investments in unconsolidated joint ventures. These
properties are mainly located throughout the U.S., with 14 properties located in Europe, one property in Asia and one property in Canada. Our properties contain a total of approximately 16.8 million net rentable square feet, including
approximately 2.2 million square feet held for redevelopment. A significant component of our current and future internal growth is anticipated through the development of our existing space held for redevelopment and through acquisitions of new
properties. Our operations and acquisition activities are focused on a limited number of markets where technology industry tenants and corporate datacenter users are concentrated, including the Boston, Chicago, Dallas, Los Angeles, New York Metro,
Northern Virginia, Phoenix, San Francisco and Silicon Valley metropolitan areas in the U.S., the Amsterdam, Dublin, London and Paris markets in Europe and the Singapore market in Asia. As of December 31, 2010, our portfolio, excluding space
held for redevelopment, was approximately 94.6% leased. The types of properties within our focus include:



•Internet gateway datacenters, which serve as hubs for Internet and data communications within and between major metropolitan areas;



•Corporate datacenters, which provide secure, continuously available environments for the storage and processing of critical electronic information.
Data centers are used for disaster recovery purposes, transaction processing and to house corporate IT operations;



•Technology manufacturing properties, which contain highly specialized manufacturing environments for such purposes as disk drive manufacturing,
semiconductor manufacturing and specialty pharmaceutical manufacturing; and



•Regional or national offices of technology companies that are located in our target markets.

Unlike traditional office and flex/research and development space, the location of and improvements to our facilities are generally
essential to our tenants’ businesses, which we believe results in high occupancy levels, long lease terms and low tenant turnover. In addition, many of our properties have tenant improvements that have been installed at our tenants’
expense. The tenant improvements in our facilities are generally readily adaptable for use by similar tenants.

Digital Realty
Trust, Inc. was incorporated in the state of Maryland on March 9, 2004. Digital Realty Trust, L.P. was organized in the state of Maryland on July 21, 2004. Our principal executive offices are located at 560 Mission Street, Suite 2900,
San Francisco, California 94105. Our telephone number at that location is (415) 738-6500. Our website is located at www.digitalrealtytrust.com. The information found on, or otherwise accessible through, our website is not incorporated
into, and does not form a part of, this annual report or any other report or document we file with or furnish to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC.







Recent Developments

On November 9, 2010, Digital Realty Trust, Inc. distributed a Notice of Redemption to all holders of record of its outstanding 7.875% Series B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, or Series B
Preferred Stock, regarding its redemption of all outstanding shares of its Series B Preferred Stock at a redemption price of $25.00 per share, plus accrued and unpaid dividends. The redemption date was December 10, 2010. Digital Realty Trust,
Inc. funded the redemption with borrowings under the operating partnership’s revolving credit facility, which the operating partnership distributed to Digital Realty Trust, Inc. in connection with the operating partnership’s redemption of
all 2,530,000 of its outstanding 7.875% Series B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units held by Digital Realty Trust, Inc.

On
November 16, 2010, Digital Realty Trust, Inc. issued 72,826 privately issued shares of its common stock, par value $0.01 per share, to our operating partnership, and our operating partnership delivered the shares and paid an incentive fee equal
to $15,125 and accrued and unpaid interest equal to $23,719 in exchange for $2,300,000 in aggregate principal amount of the operating partnership’s 4.125% Exchangeable Senior Debentures due 2026, which we refer to as the 2026 debentures, held
by an institutional investor pursuant to an exchange agreement, dated November 16, 2010, by and among Digital Realty Trust, Inc., our operating partnership and such institutional investor.

On November 19, 2010, Digital Realty Trust, Inc. issued 601,127 privately issued shares of its common stock, par value $0.01 per
share, to our operating partnership, and our operating partnership delivered the shares and paid an incentive fee equal to $189,889 and accrued and unpaid interest equal to $204,484 in exchange for $18,985,000 in aggregate principal amount of the
2026 debentures held by an institutional investor pursuant to an exchange agreement, dated November 19, 2010, by and among Digital Realty Trust, Inc., our operating partnership and such institutional investor.

On November 23, 2010, we completed the acquisition of a datacenter in Singapore for approximately SGD174.4 million, or
approximately $132.7 million based on the exchange rate in effect on November 23, 2010. The acquisition was financed with borrowings under our revolving credit facility.

On February 10, 2011, we declared the following dividends per share. The operating partnership will make an equivalent distribution
per unit.



Share ClassSeries CPreferred StockSeries DPreferred StockCommon stockand common unitDividend and distribution amount$0.273438$0.343750$0.680000Dividend and distribution payable dateMarch 31, 2011March 31, 2011March 31, 2011Dividend payable to shareholders of record onMarch 15, 2011March 15, 2011March 15, 2011Annual equivalent rate of dividend and distribution$1.094$1.375$2.720

Our Competitive Strengths

We believe we distinguish ourselves from other owners, acquirors and managers of technology-related real estate through
our competitive strengths, which include:



•High-Quality Portfolio that is Difficult to Replicate.Our portfolio contains state-of-the-art data center facilities with extensive tenant
improvements. Based on current market rents and the estimated replacement costs of our properties and their improvements, we believe that they could not be replicated today on a cost-competitive basis. Our portfolio of corporate and Internet gateway
data center facilities is equipped to meet the power and cooling requirements for the most demanding corporate IT applications. Many of the properties in our portfolio are located on major aggregation points formed by the physical presence of
multiple major telecommunications service providers, which reduces our tenants’ costs and operational risks and increases the attractiveness of our buildings.







•Presence in Key Markets.Our portfolio is located in 28 metropolitan areas, including the Chicago, Dallas, Los Angeles, New York/New Jersey,
Northern Virginia, Phoenix, San Francisco and Silicon Valley metropolitan areas in the U.S., the Amsterdam, Dublin, London and Paris markets in Europe and the Singapore market in Asia, and is diversified so that no one market represented more than
13.9% of the aggregate annualized rent of our portfolio as of December 31, 2010.



•Proven Ability to Sign New Leases.We have considerable experience in identifying and leasing to new tenants. The combination of our specialized
data center leasing team and customer referrals continues to provide a robust pipeline of new tenants. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we commenced new leases totaling approximately 652,000 square feet, which represent approximately
$72.5 million in annualized GAAP rent. These leases were comprised of Powered Base Buildings®, Turn-Key
Datacenters®, and ancillary office and other uses.



•Demonstrated Acquisition Capability.As of December 31, 2010, our portfolio consisted of 96 technology-related real estate properties,
excluding two properties held as investments in unconsolidated joint ventures, that we or our predecessor acquired beginning in 2002, for an aggregate of 16.8 million rentable square feet, including approximately 2.2 million square feet
held for redevelopment. We have developed detailed, standardized procedures for evaluating acquisitions, including income producing assets and vacant properties suitable for redevelopment, to ensure that they meet our financial, technical and other
criteria. These procedures and our in-depth knowledge of the technology and data center industries allow us to identify strategically located properties and evaluate investment opportunities efficiently and, as appropriate, commit and close quickly.
Our broad network of contacts within a highly fragmented universe of sellers and brokers of technology-related real estate enables us to capitalize on acquisition opportunities. As a result, we acquired more than half of our properties before they
were broadly marketed by real estate brokers.



•Flexible Datacenter Solutions.We provide flexible, customer oriented solutions designed to meet the needs of technology and corporate data
center users, including Turn-Key Datacenter®, Powered Base Building®and build-to-suit options. Our Turn-Key Datacenters®are move-in ready, physically secure facilities with the power and cooling capabilities to support mission-critical IT enterprise applications. We believe our
Turn-Key Datacenters®are effective solutions for tenants that lack the expertise, capital budget or desire to
provide their own extensive data center infrastructure, management and security. For tenants that possess the ability to build and operate their own facility, our Powered Base Building®solution provides the physical location, required power and network access necessary to support a state-of-the-art data center. Our in-house engineering and design
and construction professionals can also provide tenants with customized build-to-suit solutions to meet their unique specifications. Our Critical Facilities Management®services and team of technical engineers and data center operations experts provide 24/7 support for these mission-critical facilities.



•Differentiating Development Advantages.Our extensive development activity, operating scale and process-based approach to data center design,
construction and operations result in significant cost savings and added value for our tenants. We have leveraged our purchasing power by securing global purchasing agreements and developing relationships with major equipment manufacturers, reducing
costs and shortening delivery timeframes on key components, including major mechanical and electrical equipment. Utilizing our innovative modular data center design referred to as POD Architecture®, we deliver what we believe to be a technically superior data center environment at significant cost savings. In addition, by utilizing our POD Architecture®to develop new Turn-Key Datacenters®in our existing Powered Base
Buildings®, on average we are able to deliver a fully commissioned facility in just under 30 weeks. Finally, our
access to capital allows us to provide financing options for tenants that do not want to invest their own capital.



•Diverse Tenant Base Across a Variety of Industry Sectors.We use our in-depth knowledge of the requirements and trends for Internet and data
communications and corporate data center users to market our properties to domestic and international tenants with specific technology needs. At December 31, 2010, we had approximately 540 tenants across a variety of industry sectors, ranging
from information







technology and Internet enterprises to financial services, energy and manufacturing companies. Our largest tenant accounted for approximately 7.9% of the aggregate annualized rent of our
portfolio as of December 31, 2010 and no other single tenant accounted for more than approximately 5% of the aggregate annualized rent of our portfolio.



•Experienced and Committed Management Team and Organization.Our senior management team, including our Chairman, has an average of over 26 years
of experience in the technology or real estate industries, including experience as investors in, advisors to and founders of technology companies. We believe that our senior management team’s extensive knowledge of both the real estate and the
technology industries provides us with a key competitive advantage. At December 31, 2010, our senior management team collectively owned common equity interests in our company of approximately 1.4%, which aligns management’s interests with
those of our stockholders.

Business and Growth Strategies

Our primary business objectives are to maximize sustainable long-term growth in earnings, funds from operations and cash flow per share
and unit and to maximize returns to our stockholders and our operating partnership’s unitholders. Our business strategies to achieve these objectives are:



•Achieve Superior Returns on Redevelopment Inventory.At December 31, 2010, we had approximately 2.2 million square feet held for
redevelopment. At December 31, 2010, approximately 532,000 square feet of our space held for redevelopment was undergoing construction for Turn-Key Datacenter®, Powered Base Building®and
build-to-suit space in seven U.S. markets and three European markets. These projects have sufficient power capacity to meet the power and cooling requirements of today’s advanced data centers. We will continue to build-out our redevelopment
portfolio when justified by anticipated returns.



•Capitalize on Acquisition Opportunities.We believe that acquisitions enable us to increase cash flow and create long-term stockholder
value. Our relationships with corporate information technology groups, technology tenants and real estate brokers who are dedicated to serving these tenants provide us with ongoing access to potential acquisitions and often enable us to avoid
competitive bidding. Furthermore, the specialized nature of technology-related real estate makes it more difficult for traditional real estate investors to understand, which results in reduced competition for acquisitions relative to other property
types. We believe this dynamic creates an opportunity for us to obtain better risk-adjusted returns on our capital.



•Access and Use Capital Efficiently.We believe we can increase stockholder returns by effectively accessing and deploying capital. Since Digital
Realty Trust, Inc.’s initial public offering in 2004, our company has raised over $5.9 billion of capital through common, preferred and convertible preferred equity offerings, two exchangeable debt offerings, two non-exchangeable bond
offerings, our revolving credit facility, secured mortgage financings and refinancings and sales of non-core assets. We will endeavor to maintain financial flexibility while using our liquidity and access to capital to support operations, including
our acquisition, leasing, development and redevelopment programs, which are important sources of our growth.



•Maximize the Cash Flow of Our Properties.We aggressively manage and lease our assets to increase their cash flow. We often acquire
properties with substantial in-place cash flow and some vacancy, which enables us to create upside through lease-up. Moreover, many of our properties contain extensive in-place infrastructure or buildout that may result in higher rents when leased
to tenants seeking these improvements. We control our costs by negotiating expense pass-through provisions in tenant leases for operating expenses, including power costs and certain capital expenditures. Leases covering approximately 73% of the
leased net rentable square feet in our portfolio as of December 31, 2010 required tenants to pay all or a portion of increases in operating expenses, including real estate taxes, insurance, common area charges and other expenses.







•Leverage Strong Industry Relationships.We use our strong industry relationships with national and regional corporate enterprise information
technology groups and technology-intensive companies to identify and comprehensively respond to their real estate needs. Our company’s leasing and sales professionals are real estate and technology industry specialists who can develop complex
facility solutions for the most demanding corporate data center and other technology tenants.

Competition

Regulation

General

Office properties in our submarkets are subject to various laws, ordinances and regulations, including regulations relating to common
areas. We believe that each of our properties as of December 31, 2010 has the necessary permits and approvals to operate its business.

Americans With Disabilities Act

Our properties must comply with Title III of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or the ADA, to the extent that such properties are “public accommodations” as defined by the ADA. The
ADA may require removal of structural barriers to access by persons with disabilities in certain public areas of our properties where such removal is readily achievable. We believe that our properties are in substantial compliance with the ADA and
that we will not be required to make substantial capital expenditures to address the requirements of the ADA. However, noncompliance with the ADA could result in imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants. The obligation to make
readily achievable accommodations is an ongoing one, and we will continue to assess our properties and to make alterations as appropriate in this respect.

Environmental Matters

Under various laws relating to the protection
of the environment, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be liable for contamination resulting from the presence or discharge of hazardous or toxic substances at that property, and may be required to investigate and clean up
such contamination at or emanating from that property. Such laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the contaminants, and the liability may be joint and several.
Previous owners used some of our properties for industrial and retail purposes, and those properties may contain some level of environmental contamination. Fuel storage tanks are present at many of our properties, and if releases were to occur, we
may be liable for the costs of cleaning any resulting contamination. The presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination at our properties may expose us to third-party liability or materially adversely affect our ability to sell,
lease or develop the real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral.







Some of the properties may contain asbestos-containing building materials. Environmental
laws require that asbestos-containing building materials be properly managed and maintained, and may impose fines and penalties on building owners or operators for failure to comply with these requirements. These laws may also allow third parties to
seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos-containing building materials.

In addition, some of our tenants, particularly those in the biotechnology and life sciences industry and those in the technology
manufacturing industry, routinely handle hazardous substances and wastes as part of their operations at our properties, including chemical solvents, medical waste, hydrocarbons, batteries and pesticides. Environmental laws and regulations subject
our tenants, and potentially us, to liability resulting from these activities or from previous industrial or retail uses of those properties. Environmental liabilities could also affect a tenant’s ability to make rental payments to us. We
require our tenants to comply with these environmental laws and regulations and to indemnify us for any related liabilities.

Independent environmental consultants have conducted Phase I or similar environmental site assessments on all of the properties in our
portfolio. Site assessments are intended to discover and evaluate information regarding the environmental condition of the surveyed property and surrounding properties. These assessments do not generally include soil samplings, subsurface
investigations or an asbestos survey. None of the recent site assessments revealed any past or present environmental liability that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, assets or results of operations. However, the
assessments may have failed to reveal all environmental conditions, liabilities or compliance concerns. Material environmental conditions, liabilities or compliance concerns may have arisen after the review was completed or may arise in the future;
and future laws, ordinances or regulations may impose material additional environmental liability.

Our properties and their
uses often require permits from various government agencies, including permits related to zoning and land use, such as permits to operate data center facilities. Certain permits from state or local environmental regulatory agencies, including
regulators of air quality, are usually required to install and operate diesel-powered generators, which provide emergency back-up power at some of our facilities. These permits often set emissions limits for certain air pollutants, including oxides
of nitrogen. In addition, various federal, state, and local environmental, health and safety requirements, such as fire requirements and treated and storm water discharge requirements, apply to some of our properties. Changes to applicable
regulations, such as air quality regulations, or the permit requirements for equipment at our facilities, could hinder or prevent our construction or operation of data center facilities.

The environmental laws and regulations—including those directly regulating our climate change impacts and those which regulate the
climate change impacts of companies with which we do business, such as utilities which provide our facilities with electricity—to which our properties are subject may change in the future, and new laws and regulations may be created. See
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Factors Which May Influence Future Results of Operations—Climate change legislation.” We do not know if or how the requirements will
change, but changes may require that we make significant unanticipated expenditures, and such expenditures may materially adversely impact our: financial condition, cash flow, results, cash available for distributions, common stock’s per share
trading price, and ability to satisfy our debt service obligations.

Insurance

We carry comprehensive liability, fire, extended coverage, earthquake, business interruption and rental loss insurance covering all of the
properties in our portfolio under a blanket policy. We select policy specifications and insured limits which we believe to be appropriate given the relative risk of loss, the cost of the coverage and industry practice and, in the opinion of our
company’s management, the properties in our portfolio are currently adequately insured. We do not carry insurance for generally uninsured losses such as loss from war or nuclear reaction. In addition, we carry earthquake insurance on our
properties in an amount and with deductibles which







we believe are commercially reasonable. Certain of the properties in our portfolio are located in areas known to be seismically active. See “Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our Business
and Operations—Potential losses may not be covered by insurance.”

Employees

As of December 31, 2010, we had 454 employees. None of these employees are represented by a labor union.

How to Obtain Our SEC Filings

All reports we file with the SEC will be available free of charge via EDGAR through the SEC website at www.sec.gov. In addition, the public may read and copy materials we file with the SEC at the
SEC’s public reference room located at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. We will also provide copies of our Forms 8-K, 10-K, 10-Q, Proxy Statement, Annual Report and amendments to those documents at no charge to investors upon request
and make electronic copies of such reports available through our website at www.digitalrealtytrust.com as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material with the SEC. The information found on, or otherwise accessible through, our website
is not incorporated by reference into, nor does it form a part of, this report or any other document that we file with the SEC.

Offices

Our headquarters are located in San Francisco. We have regional offices in Boston, Chicago, Dallas, Los Angeles, New York,
Northern Virginia and Phoenix and international offices in Dublin, London, Paris and Singapore.

Reports to Security Holders

Digital Realty Trust, Inc. is required to send an annual report to its securityholders and to our operating
partnership’s unitholders.



